Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House whether the Australian Meat Board obtains sufficient information of the quantities of meat being exported to the United States of America early enough to ensure, through the diversification scheme, that supplies of meat to that market are regulated evenly throughout the year? Can the Minister give an assurance that checks will be kept on actual and proposed shipments so that southern Queensland crop  fatteners  of cattle will not be disadvantaged? 

I remind the House that this is the maiden speech of the honourable member for Swan. 
Firstly I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  on his speech. I do not agree with a lot the the things he said but I go along with his congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his re-election to office. I would like to go further and extend my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  also for the high honour conferred upon him by  Her  Majesty the Queen. I also would like to congratulate the  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees on his re-election. Both  Mr Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees gave great service to the previous Parliament and 1 am sure they will serve this Parliament with the same distinction. 
I want to make a point or two about the speech just delivered by the honourable member for Adelaide. He complained about the treatment given to South Australia. That State is quite well treated when one considers figures 1 have relating to the various States which show that per head of population per year Victoria received $103, New South Wales $104, Queensland $129 and South Australia $159. Overall South Australia has fared fairly well from the Commonwealth Government. The other point I want to make tonight concerns an observation I heard from a gentleman for whose opinion I have the very highest regard. The observation was that there was no alternative government. I believe that remark to be true. I believe that the Australian people, for the last 20 years, have thought that there really was no alternative government. That is one thing that I think is worth noting and I think it is a pity that that is the case. The fact is that there is no alternative government which would satisfy the great majority of Australians. 
The Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General emphasised in no uncertain fashion the fast rate of development in Australia. It is now one of the most envied nations in the world. Despite the criticisms that we hear about the Government, Australia has made, and is con- tint,ing to make, great national progress. The Government too often is denied its fair share of credit for this progress and development. If this were not taking place the Government would be criticised. Those people who now criticise the Government are not prepared to give it the credit it deserves for the progress being made. Its policies have created a climate for investment, particularly the investment of risk capital which is unavailable in quantity in Australia, and this has resulted in unparalled progress over the past 20 years, particularly in more recent years. 
But this progress has not come about without some problems also developing. One of the most important problems confronting the Government at the present time is the difficulty faced by many of our primary industries due to low world prices and constantly rising costs - costs which arc increasing and which affect us more than they otherwise would because of the very high level of national prosperity. A larger share of this prosperity is being sought constantly by almost all sections of the community and they are receiving it. In most cases, of course, costs are being passed on. But exporters, particularly exporters of primary produce, have no way of passing on rising costs. This has been said many times but 1 think it is worth repeating because it is something which should affect the policy of the Government and its policy towards exporters and primary producers in particular. 
Let us consider the wool industry. The position has been reached where, in my opinion, some assistance must be made available to ena'ble wool growers to carry on for the time being until the introduction of measures to reduce costs and improve marketing to the extent necessary to enable them to operate with at least some degree of profit. I commend the wool industry and its leaders for the responsible attitude taken towards subsidy to the industry in that there has been a reluctance to ask for assistance by way of direct price support. I am firmly of the opinion, however - and at least some leaders of the wool industry agree - that with a price now well under 40c per lb wool growers no longer can carry the increasing costs without assistance in some form.  To  reduce this assistance to a minimum or from what it would have to be under present conditions I submit that charges levied by Government departments should be substantially reduced. In my own State of Queensland rent is one of those charges to which I refer. Land rent is much too high in relation to the prosperity or lack of prosperity of the wool industry at this time. I think the capacity of any property to produce should be one of the major factors taken into account in arriving at the rental charged. I believe urgent consideration should be given to this matter. 1 know that the Queensland Government is considering it at the present time. 
Kail freights are another serious cost burden. In this case again there is every justification for worthwhile reductions. For a long time in Queensland rail freights from country areas were used to subsidise cheaper rail fares in the metropolitan area of Brisbane. Those freight rates could be carried when wool was bringing high prices but I believe the time has come when freight charges in our rural areas should be substantially reduced because of the present difficult conditions in primary industry. I realise that State governments would have some difficulty in finding the finance for these benefits. It naturally follows then that the Federal Government should enter the field and accept a reasonable share of the cost of compensating State governments for a fair share  r&gt;f  revenue lost. 
Shire rates are another burden - an ever increasing burden - on primary producers. It falls too heavily on rural landholders. Local authorities are being asked to carry ever increasing responsibilities. They have to provide the amenities necessary to keep people in country areas. Aid from the Commonwealth, through the States, to local authorities to enable them to reduce rates in those areas where the burden is becoming too heavy, is long overdue. Because local authorities are closest to the people I contend that they can spend more effectively, in the interests of the community, the money made available than either State or Federal governments. The State and Federal governments will get very good value from any money that is made available to local authorities. I believe that too many politicians, even those who were previously associated with local government, are apt to forget the needs of local government when they are elected to Parliament. I hope that the attitude will be taken that local government is now in a position where it needs much more assistance from the Federal Government and if that money is channelled to them through the States I would be quite happy to see the distribution made in that way. But whatever happens, I believe that local government will have to get further assistance. 
I have been presenting a case for assistance to the wool industry in most of the matters I have mentioned, although some of them had a wider application than that. But in presenting that case I would agree that the community should not be asked to support an industry if it is not in the best interest of the community that such an industry should be supported. I put it to the House, however, that there is a clear case that the wool industry deserves the support of the community and it deserves it not only in its own right but in the national interest. Wool still provides some 25% of Australia's export income. I ask: Without this what would be the state of our economy? Our economic stability certainly would not be maintained. Another point I want to make is that much of Australia is well suited to wool production and much of the land that is used for wool production is not suited for other forms of production. This is an added reason why every effort should be made to keep our wool industry reasonably profitable. 
In the course of an excellent maiden speech the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  said this is the only country that has a continent to itself. That is true, and since it has a continent to itself the people who live in this country have a moral responsibility to utilise every portion of that continent that can be utilised. It is a matter of considerable interest to wool growers that the opinion has been clearly expressed by people coming back from overseas that wool users would be prepared to pay more for wool if they could be sure that their competitors could not get it for less. If this is so - and I believe that it is so - it must follow that our marketing techniques should be such as would enable this to be done. 
I submit if all measures available to assist the wool industry are taken, even if there is some assistance required, it is quite possible that the cost to the Government to keep the industry operating profitably would be much less than is often suggested and the provision of that amount of money would be fully justified. I repeat that every section of the community, except the primary producers - most sections of primary producers at any rate - are enjoying a reasonable to a very high degree of prosperity and are still clamouring for, and getting, a gradually increasing share of our nation's prosperity. Why should the primary producer, who cannot pass on his costs, be denied a share of it? 
I want to make some comments in regard to an organisation which is in my State of Queensland and which indeed is Australia wide. I refer to the Queensland Countrywomen's Association. When attending  n  summer school at Dalby in my electorate quite recently, I heard about a proposed trainee teacher hostel which the Queensland Countrywomen's Association intends to build in Brisbane. This hostel is to cost over $500,000. This is a tremendous effort by an organisation of womenfolk. The effort is a voluntary one. It is true that the State Government is prepared to subsidise the building of this hostel up to, I understand, some $200,000. This still leaves an enormous amount for an organisation such as the one I have mentioned to raise. This organisation is still required to raise some $300,000. The organisation will be faced with an annual cost of some $34,000 against interest and redemption. I believe, because this is such a worthwhile project, because it is essential in the interests of our trainee teachers, that the Commonwealth Government should give assistance to it. The Commonwealth Government does provide S for $ subsidy for donations to many institutions. I would like to see the trainee teachers' hostel proposed by the Queensland Countrywomen's Association brought into that category. The organisation has already received almost $56,000 in donations and if the Commonwealth Government were to give $ for $ the Queensland Countrywomen's Association would still be providing a very valuable contribution to education in the State at a very low cost to the community. So 1 commend this proposal to the Minister and the Government for their very earnest consideration. 
Before I leave this point I want to say that the Association will provide not only the buildings and the finance but also a protection for those young teachers coming into the metropolitan area - a protection that will enable many of their parents to have peace of mind which would not be available to them perhaps in other circumstances. I commend this project very strongly to the Commonwealth Government for some assistance. 
I would now like to turn to the wheat industry. Wheat grown in my electorate of Maranoa, because of its prime, hard quality with high protein content is still saleable and some orders for this type of wheat could not be filled this year, A lot has been said recently in this House about the wheat industry and a lot has been prompted, not by a desire to help the industry but in order to try to gain some political advantage from the difficulties wheat farmers are now facing. Never in the history of the wheat growing industry has there been so little justification for criticism put up by the Opposition to the Government on this issue. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has been condemned on a number of occasions for not giving sufficient warning of the position that was arising. I would like to quote from a speech made by the Minister to the Victorian Farmers Union on 20th March 1968 - that is some 2 years ago - and it was not long before in 1965- 1966 that the end of season stocks were some 24 million bushels. In 1966-67 this had fallen to 16.5 million bushels. But on 20th March 1968 the Minister said: 
There surely are few growers who would not agree that the Wheat Board has done a magnificent job for them in finding markets for the bigger and bigger crops that have been produced. That does not mean there is any ground for complacency. World markets are neither unlimited in capacity nor unreservedly remunerative. In the last 8 or 9 months prices have weakened to an extent that surely must bring back to earth those who have held the view that there is a ready market for all we can produce. 
Later on 19th September 1968 the Minister said: 
We have enormous problems this year in disposing of a record crop that will be coming forward. 
So the contention that there was no warning given by the Minister is not correct. He gave repeated warning. He had talks with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation with that end in view. But it must be obvious that one cannot handle this job overnight without creating a great deal of hardship for people who are perhaps just going into the industry or have involved themselves in debt as a result of what they felt was a brighter future for the industry than it really had. This is a matter that  growers'  own representatives, through the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, took up. It is also to be remembered that this had to be a joint Commonwealth-State scheme and the State Governments had to implement the quota system in their individual States. 
The plan to cope with the situation was put to the Minister by the growers themselves through their own organisation - the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. It was that line of action that apparently the Opposition did not seem to like. If this could have been done more quickly I believe that it would have been done; but every effort was made by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to get a plan to this Government to restrict production as soon as they could when it became evident to them that there would be a need for reduction. Before this was evident any reduction would certainly not have been accepted by the Australian wheat growers or by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. The people on the other side of the House who gazed into the crystal ball did not know anything about the position at that time any more than anyone else did. The fact is that they are only being wise after the event. It is very easy for them to say now what should have been done. 
Let me quote what the shadow Minister for Trade on the other side of the House, the honourable member for Lalor, had to say on 25th October 1967. He said: 'Wheat is the business of the Country Party'. This is a good admission. It Ls an honest admission from the other side of the House. He ako said:  1 have no objection, not one scrap of objection, to the way the Australian Country Party has handled Australia's wheat in recent years through its Minister for Trade and Industry find his assistant. 1 have not one word of objection to offer about it. 
That was said by the shadow Minister for Trade and Industry on 25th October 1967. So he knew nothing about it. He was honest in his approach and I congratulate him on his honesty on that occasion. 
But the Opposition, now wise after the event as it is so easy to be, is criticising the Government because it wants to gain political capital out of the situation. If honourable members opposite know anything about the wheat industry they will know that the problems of the industry were caused by an over supply on the world's markets. No-one was able to predict this with any degree of accuracy far enough ahead to be able to take remedial action. That is the problem. The governments of every major wheat exporting country with a substantial, trade in wheat were in as much difficulty as, or more difficulty than, the Australian Government has been. Does the Opposition say that there is no government of any wheat exporting country that knows how to run its business? 
I would like to point out, too, that the major factor which contributed to Australia's wheat production on the home front was the falling price of wool. Does the Opposition suggest that it was the fault of the Government that world wool prices were falling to practically their lowest level on record? Despite what has been said about this, I suggest that, provided there was any degree of profitability in wheat growing there would have been a very large expansion in wheat production. It is problematical as to whether the expansion would not have been just as great provided there was some profitability in wheat growing, because there was very little in wool production and a quick return could be obtained from the wheat industry. Are members of the Opposition going to say that it would have been their policy to reduce the price of wheat below a reasonable margin of profit for the wheat producers? Is this what the people who say they represent, or want to represent, the primary producers, including the wheat growers, of this country would do if they took office? Would they reduce the price of wheat until there was no profit in wheal growing at all? This is the suggestion that I take out of some of their criticism. 
I noted with Interest during the election campaign that all the leading exponents of Labor's rural policy had different policies. I am inclined to think that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  as shadow Minister for Primary Industry, must have been relieved to some extent that Labor did not win the election, as he would have had to try to implement the opposing policies enunciated by them. It is all very well for an honourable member with ranbow-hued clothes to talk about a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. If he ever gets into the position of having some authority the primary producers of this country will realise that there is no gold at the end of the rainbow that he represents. 
There is no doubt in my mind that Australian agriculture will surive. It will survive by virtue of sound limitation of production in particular fields. It will survive provided it has sympathetic government administration, which it is getting. But I believe that it will have the greatest difficulty in recovering if, in addition to these others problems, it has to suffer the blight of a Socialist government, the majority of whose members would have no interest in or sympathy for the primary producers of Australia. [Quorum formed.] 
Will the Prime Minister advise what action has been taken by the Cabinet in reply to recent representations made by the Queensland Government for further assistance in coping with the extremely serious drought situation now existing in Queensland? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of Press statements that already this year Australia has exported 90% of the meat it is allowed to export to the United States of America? Has this statement any foundation in fact? If not, can the Minister indicate the present position of exports of meat from Australia to the United States? Further, has the Minister any knowledge of the source of these statements, which have caused concern and financial loss to meat producers due to market fluctuations resulting from them? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. He will recall a deputation that I introduced to him in Brisbane concerning the dam on Pike's Creek in Queensland. Later he replied to the honourable member for Gwydir that the matter was being treated as a matter of urgency by the Government. Can he advise the House of any further developments in relation to that investigation and as to what stage the investigation has reached? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the rapidly expanding meat production in Australia and the high and rising meat prices in the United States will the Minister, while in Canada, arrange a visit to the United States with the object of obtaining an increase in meat exports to that country through an increase in the global quota of meat imports now allowed by the United States? 
-There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The evidence taken relating to telegram and telephone services, particularly in buildings involving multi-occupancy, justifies further the action taken by the Department of the Treasury in 1968 in requesting departments to analyse their telephone accounts with a view to isolating the factors that have contributed to increase allocations for telephone purposes. Your Committee is also concerned by evidence tendered to the effect that the Department of the Interior is unable to assess the dates on which telephone accounts will be received. In this regard we would invite attention to paragraph 114 of our 84th report- We believe that any department confronted with that difficulty should discuss its problems with the Postmaster- General's Department with a view to obtaining accounts on a regular basis acceptable to both departments. The evidence also reflects a need for departments that are required to pay electricity accounts to ascertain from the electricity authorities concerned the cyclical arrangements that are applied in the issuing of electricity accounts to assist them with their reviews of expenditure and the formulation of their estimates. 
Arising from the evidence relating to the acquisition of a site in north Queensland for the Department of National Development, your Committee has expressed the view that where the Department of the Treasury has approved the inclusion of a project in the acquisition programme pending additional estimates, it should obtain from the Department of the Interior a report on the status of the project for consideration when the additional estimates are being framed. We further believe that the principle involved in this case has a wider application. As in previous inquiries of this type the evidence has shown continued misunderstandings that arise in administrative operations. We believe that departments must at all times be vigilant to ensure that human errors of this type and the consequences that arise from them are kept to a minimum. I commend the report to honourable members and move that it be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
I have just listened to a talk on wool which did nothing whatever to contribute anything to a solution of the problems facing the wool industry. The problems facing the industry are being handled by wool industry organisations. Their representations are being given consideration by the Government. The Government has said repeatedly that provided that the wool growing organisations and the wool growers themselves could present a policy or proposition to the Government, it would be only too anxious to implement it. It is the division among wool growers that has prevented the Government from taking action so far. It is the over supply of competitive fibres on the world market that is the cause of the problem facing the wool industry. The greatest difficulty that the industry could face would be if it were under a government the great majority of whose members lived in the metropolitan areas and had no sympathy for or interest in the welfare of wool growers. It is all very well for a few people to get up and say something about wool when they will not be backed up when they get into office by the great majority of the members of their Party. They will be impotent. The people on the other side of the House who talk about the wool industry will have no opportunity to implement the suggestions that they put up. It is very easy for the Opposition to put up this sort of proposition when it knows that it does not have to implement it. I say to the Opposition that if it ever comes to government it will not be able to implement it because it will be prevented by a priority being given to the cities and the metropolitan areas, and the majority of numbers on that side of the House know that what I say is true. 
Tonight I want to talk mainly about the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. The Campaign is undoubtedly a matter of grave concern to every Australian who values his or her freedom and the security of our nation. This is especially so because of the methods being used in the conduct of this Campaign. There are ample opportunities for criticism, for protest and for objection to the attitude of any government in Australia, still keeping within the law. It is a completely unjustified abuse of the freedom that we enjoy in this country today to incite people to break the law. To say, as some members of the Australian Labor Party have said, that individuals have the right to break any law which they consider is a bad law is extremely dangerous. This would undermine the fundamental principles of democratic society. This line of thinking is completely untenable and must be rejected absolutely if we are to maintain law and order. Surely this type of action must encourage a disrespect of the law and if it is maintained and expanded it will make the maintenance of law and order impossible. 
The question naturally follows: Who wants to encourage a disrespect of the law? Who wants to undermine the fundamental principles of democracy? The people who would be most anxious to do that would be the Communists and their fellow travellers. They have done it many times and it has been promoted at the beginning of most revolutions that the Communists have inspired and no doubt it will precede many that they still intend to stage in the future. It is, of course, quite obvious that people who do not subscribe to the Communist ideology have been persuaded to take part in this Campaign. They overlook the fact that to withdraw our forces from Vietnam precipitately would negate the sacrifices already made. We all want to see an end to the war but it will not bring a lasting peace to take our troops from Vietnam today. This is what is overlooked. We all want to see an end to the war and that end will come if North Vietnam is prepared to stop aggression or - perhaps and - when South Vietnam is able to defend herself effectively without the aid of foreign troops. Progress is being made in this direction but the progress is being slowed down to this end by the very fact that some people are not prepared to back up the troops and those who are endeavouring to create a democratic society in South Vietnam in order to allow its people the expression of freedom. 
I know that the answer that has been used sometimes to speeches of this kind by people on the other side of the House is: You are kicking the Communist can.' It is a pretty sad indictment that no better answer than that has come from the Opposition. That is the only one I have heard so far. Let mc get away from my own views on this matter. Up to this stage I have expressed my own views. Now I want to turn to an expression of opinion which cannot be claimed to have any political bias. 
I am about to express the opinion of someone else and the honourable member should not laugh. This will take the smile off his face and put it on the other side. I. want to quote from an article in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' of 22nd April 1970, headed 'Warning by AWU on moratorium'. Is the Australian Workers Union politically biased? The article states: 
In a direct tilt at the May  8  Vietnam Moratorium, the Australian Workers Union has warned workers to be wary of being used in matters of a purely political nature. lt says there arc elements bent on sweeping away all the traditional traits of character for which Australians are world renowned. 
The warning is carried in an editorial in the latest issue of the 'Worker', official journal of the AWU. 
The Moratorium is not referred to directly. The editorial, headed 'Australians should be wary of these "peace advocates" ', says there are elements alien to the accepted Australian concepts, which would have Australians throw away their traditions under the banner of peace advocates, knowing that most hate war, and love peace. 
It says: 'The "Worker" declares unequivocally that many of these elements are suspect, as arc their motives, and their individual organisations'. lt is true that among these elements will be found people who arc acting out of genuine love of peace, people who in normal circumstances would 'not be seen alive or dead with certain organisations and who would be as loyal to the Australian tradition as their fellow Australians'. 
Unfortunately, by lending their support and their names to these "Trojan" organisations within our ranks, they are bei'ng used as respectable fronts for sinister objectives, the ultimate overthrow of our democratic form of government, and ils replacement by a form of  governments  known for its absolute tyranny and totalitarianism'. 
No condemnation of the Vietnam Moratorium has been made in stronger  terms  than the article from which I have just quoted in the 'Worker', which is the official journal of the AWU. In a separate report the 'Worker' states that the resolution of 12th April of the Mount Isa branch of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association condemning the issue is regarded in trade union circles in Queensland as a sharp slap at the Trades and Labour Council leftist hierarchy which supports the Moratorium. The report states that union opinion, particularly among the rank and file, is hardening that the proposed stoppage in Victoria, and stoppages elsewhere, will not achieve their aim - and they will not, either - as the Vietnam question is a matter for the Australian Government and other allied governments. The unionists realise that this issue is not in the best interest of the people whom the Opposition is supposed to represent. Since I have time at my disposal I shall take the matter a little further. I am basing my argument not on a political bias but on what the unions are saying. I wish to quote an article which appeared in the 'Courier Mail' on Saturday, 2nd May. The article states: 
The powerful combined industrial unions committee group yesterday moved unanimously against supporting next Friday's Vietnam Moratorium. 
The committee represents 130,948 trade unionists in north, and central and southern Queensland divisions. 
The committee represents these unions: Australian Workers Union, Federated Clerks, Queensland State Service, Teachers, Clothing and Allied Trades, Shop Assistants, Commercial Travellers, Royal Australian Nursing Federation, Queensland Railway Salaried Officers, Railway Traffic Station Masters, and Railway Signalmen. 
The charge of political bias should not be levelled at me. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  laughed at me when I said that I was going to quote something which was not politically biased. The article I have quoted comes from the unions and the unions are the organisations which put honourable members opposite into Parliament. The article I have quoted indicates that the unions do not want honourable members opposite to support the Vietnam Moratorium. 
Has the PostmasterGeneral any information concerning an item on a commercial television station in Melbourne which stated that 2 students who were taking part in the Moratorium march had bought over 90 bottles of simulated blood from Bernards, the magic shop in Melbourne? 
1 ask the PostmasterGeneral whether his attention has been drawn to the extremely high charges that are being required of some telephone subscribers to upgrade their telephone lines to meet the requirements of his Department in relation to subscriber trunk dialling. Will he examine the conditions with the object of enabling these subscribers to retain their telephones at a cost which they could reasonably be expected to pay? 
Clause 6 of the Australian Industry Development Bill, which we are now considering, states: (1.) The functions of the Corporation are lo assist in ;he provision of financial resources required by Australian companies engaging or proposing to engage in industries in Australia concerned with the manufacture, processing or treatment of goods, or with the recover)' of minerals, for the purpose of facilitating and encouraging the establishment, development and advancement of those industries. 
It is said that there are other avenues for obtaining this type of finance but, despite the fact that those avenues may be available and despite the credit that has been given to them, it is quite obvious that more must be done to retain Australian equity in Australian companies. The other avenues are still there. Notwithstanding endeavours to discount the arguments advanced in his second reading speech by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  lo prove the need for the Australian Industry Development Corporation, there can be no doubt that there is a need for it if we are to retain such equity in Australian industries as is desirable and in the best interests of this country. 
Australia's development in the last decade has been marked by rapid industrial growth. The annual value of production has doubled over the last decade and the value of exports of manufactured goods has increased from 11% to 17% of the total in the same period. Vast mineral deposits have been discovered. We have reserves of iron ore sufficient to supply the world's needs for perhaps centuries to come. We have giant bauxite reserves and vast reserves of coal, phosphate and nickel. The discovery of these reserves is the work of men of vision. It is a remarkable record of achievement by private enterprise both in Australia and overseas. Al] this has been helped by the initiative of the Government in devising effective policies and providing facilities for development: encouraging confidence in the development of Australia. Not enough credit is given to the Government in this regard. An entirely new era in Australian industrial development is dawning, founded on a sound industrial base that has been already achieved. The opportunity is now with us to develop industries to world stature and competitiveness by achieving higher levels of processing of Australian raw materials by associated industries and the full development of Australian inventiveness. 
Manufacturing industries can be developed, which are geared from the outset to the export trade. This will overcome the disadvantages of the small home market. Operating at the lower cost because of low cost Australian raw materials, a larger scale of production is possible, making exports possible. This is what we are looking for. We want companies which are large enough to compete with their exports on overseas markets, at the same time supplying the Australian market. We want to see these companies selling to the world Australian invented, Australian designed and Australian manufactured products. All this is possible and will be achieved in the not too distant future. The implications of development are wide ranging and of great importance. The general level of costs in industry will be lower as a result of this type of operation. The new giants will in themselves be important new outlets for Australian manufactures and service industries. They will provide a new impetus for Australia's urban development and, naturally, new wealth always means that a higher standard of living can be provided in this country. 
Large scale industrial development needs large scale finance. This is elementary. The development of mineral resources in this country has already cost hundreds of millions of dollars. The Hamersley group, for example, has spent more than $300m in exploring for minerals and will spend perhaps a further $150m. The Mount Newman group has already spent about $200m and will spend a further $70m. Finance has had to be found by private enterprise on a scale which hitherto in this country has been the preserve of governments. The further development of resources for processing, refining and manufacture will require far greater injections of capital than we have witnessed to date. It has been clearly demonstrated that if we are to exploit to the full these new opportunities capital must be forthcoming and effective Australian ownership and control must be achieved. But there is a problem here because capital is very scarce in Australia, despite the remarks of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  Although the Australian capital market is growing steadily, there is not enough capital in this country for the type of development we envisage. Also, industrial development could not be permitted to absorb all of the capital available in this country because if this happened other vital sectors would suffer. 
Few Australian industries are large enough to obtain the vast capital resources necessary for expansion to a world scale of production. This must be conceded generally in examining this aspect. This is particularly so when a new or enlarged project will not be income generating for some years, as is often the case with large scale projects. Inevitably an Australian company wishing to develop must look for an overseas partner. This has been the practice in the past. Such a partner will almost always be a large international company. If that international company or any other company is able to provide finance for the Australian company it can be provided only at the expense of lowering Australian equity in the Australian company. Yet all too frequently these overseas companies providing this finance are themselves borrowing on the international capital market. They are well known to the international investor. They can borrow on their general credit reputation. They can use a variety of capital raising techniques to enhance the attractiveness of their borrowings. This is because of their large scale efforts in this direction. 
For an Australian company expansion too often means a loss of independence; a loss of Australian control. The Australian company has the very undesirable choice of accepting this or deciding not to expand. This is a situation which we should not allow if it is possible to avoid it. It is in this direction that the AIDC can play a very worthwhile role because when a project is soundly based and when existing financial institutions have got together all the finance they can provide for it, the Corporation will bring to bear its fund raising activity to help the project on its way. The Corporation will seek the needed resources on overseas markets. It has been claimed that overseas funds would not be available to the Corporation or, if they were available, they would be at rates which would be too costly for Australian ventures. But capital is available overseas. Much of Australia's mineral development is being financed by these very borrowings on the international capital market. 
I have already emphasised the extent of such financing by giving one or two instances. To show the extent of overseas capital available let me say that total borrowing on the Euro bond market alone in 1969 amounted to no less than 52,435m. To put the matter in perspective, that sum would be enough to finance 3 Snowy Mountains schemes - schemes which by recent Australian standards were gigantic. It is true that Euro bond rales have been higher than rates in Australia, but as the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  himself pointed out, the gap has narrowed significantly. There is no arbitrary upper limit to the interest costs which sound industrial ventures can bear, lt is true that borrowings would be more attractive if interest rates were lower, but it has been proved that sound industrial ventures can carry high interest rates and still be successful; still promote the development of Australia as we want to see it promoted. The multi-national corporations borrowing substantial long term funds at these higher rates show that there is a potential for the profitable employment of higher cost funds raised by the AIDC on behalf of Australian owned ventures even if they have to bear the higher interest rates. 
repeat that it would be desirable if these rates could be kept as low as possible but it is not necessary to eliminate this type of borrowing. Proven financing techniques can significantly reduce the cost of borrowing. Such techniques naturally should be the aim. I want to emphasise that there is no doubt al all as to the ability of the Corporation to borrow on overseas markets. 1 say that because I believe that the point has been widely canvassed with Austral an and overseas financial experts. This matter has been gone into very thoroughly and very well and, indeed, it has been gone into with many of those with whom the Corporation expects to do business. This Corporation, established by a Government, using the financing techniques available to borrowers with invest ment appeal will find a secure place in the capital markets of the world. One of the great needs of Australia today is just that. There is no doubt at all as to the Corporation's acceptability to Australian industry. The Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Australian Industries Development Association have expressed favourable views. There is no need at all to fear the Austral:an Industry Development Corporation. These organisations welcome it. It was described by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia as 'a constructive and imaginative contribution to the development of Australian industry'. 
In addition the B il provides that the Australian Industry Development Corporation will assist only when it is requested to do so by the company to be assisted and I think this is a point that should be noted. So there are no fears that the Corporation will interfere where it is not wanted. There is ample scope for the Corporation to contribute in a positive and non-restrictive way to the sound and full development, of Australian-owned industry. In the course of this debate there has been some question about the extent of takeover of Australian companies by overseas companies. 1 would like to quote one or two factors that will support this argument, although I do not think that the arguments put up by the Minister in that respect have even been shaken by the arguments used against it. 
I will not weary the House with a long quotation but I will quote the first paragraph from a relevant article headed: S 1 00m Goes Overseas'. It appeared in the Melbourne 'Age' on 7th December 1968. The article says: 
Overseas takeovers of Australian business are running at an unprecedented level. Since January, foreign controlled corporations have brought more than $wOrn worth of listed local companies under their control. 
While 1 will not go on to quote the rest of the article, I would like to draw attention to the fact that on that same page there is an article headed 'Biggest Foreign Takeovers' which lists some 19 companies that were taken over in 1968. In fairness, some of those companies have been mentioned in this debate and have been queried to some extent. There is a list of 19 companies which I could quote but I do not think I need do so in order to support my argument. The list is there for anyone to see. I wish now to refer to an article published in the same newspaper on 14th March 1969. The article is headed 'Uniroyal takes S.A. Rubber'. It says: 
The giant Uniroyal rubber group of the US has bought a controlling interest in the South Australian-based tyre and rubber goods maker, SA Rubber Holdings Ltd. 
Further on the article says: 
The acquisition makes South Australia Rubber a subsidiary of Uniroyal and gives American manufacturers a stronger grip than ever over the Australian tyre and rubber industry. Only two of the major manufacturers are now controlled by Australian interests. 
These are 2 examples and if honourable members want more there are plenty available. There is no doubt about the need for some action to be taken to maintain Australian equity in Australian companies. This Bill bringing the Australian Industry Development Corporation into being is certainly a very effective way in which to do it. 
I want to turn to one other aspect of this Bill which has arisen during the course of debate. It has been said that the Australian Industry Development Corporation has possibilities for use as an instrument of Socialism. 1 want to point out that if there was a change of government and the new government wanted to use some measure as an instrument of Socialism it would not be necessary for it to be on the statute book; the new government would introduce it. It might be a better one if the new government tried to twist it a little bit rather than establish one of its own. I have no doubt that it would go the whole hog and introduce Socialism over the whole field. The existence of this Bill would not make any difference if there was a change of government. However, there are adequate safeguards in the Bill to prevent it from being used as an instrument of Socialism. Although the Corporation may acquire equity  in  a company, under clause 8 (3) (c) of the Bill the Corporation is directed to 'endeavour, so far as practicable, to avoid becoming or remaining in a position where it is able to control or manage the affairs of a company to which it provides assistance'. That section specifically directs the Corporation to do that. Under clause 8 (4.) the Corporation is directed to dispose of its equity in a company where the retention of the shares is not necessary for the proper performance of its functions. The Corporation is able only to assist the company to carry on and to ensure that Australian equity is retained. Clause 9 of the Bill states: 
In the exercise of its powers the Corporation is not subject to direction by or on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
So I think we can fairly claim that this Bill is not a Socialist Bill and that avenues by which socialistic methods might be used in its implementation have been covered by provisions of the Bill. Let me repeat that, although this legislation could be changed, just as easily a new Socialist measure could be introduced. 
I would not try to explain it to you because I have not time today. I conclude by saying that the potential for industrial development on a world scale obviously exists. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)The honourable member for Sturt will restrain himself. 

He is the ever open mouthpiece of the new look Australian Labor Party. There is potential for industrial development on world scale in Australia. There is a need to supplement the scarce Australian capital and that need will continue. The capital markets of the world have shown their willingness to provide funds for Australian development. The strongest assurances have been forthcoming in Australia and overseas from eminent and informed financial and industrial leaders that a corporation structured along the lines proposed in this Bill, working as no other Australian institution is geared to do, would be an acceptable partner with private enterprise for Australian industrial development with Australian ownership.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I support the Bill. 
With reference to the Bill before the House. I just want to make some comments, some of them with particular reference to my own State of Queensland. I do not want to take up more time than I need to and I think the illustrations I will give will serve to emphasise the point I want to make. Student residences at Australian universities are of 2 types - the traditional affiliated residential college which is sponsored by a church or other organisation or the university hall of residence which is responsible to and is an integral part of the university. The part they play in education might be demonstrated by the fact that in April 1969 there were 46 affiliated residential colleges accommodating 6,641 students and 26 halls of residence accommodating 4,313 students. Both figures are for the whole of Australia. 
The Acts which established the 6 Stale universities in the second half of the nineteenth century and the early years of the twentieth century provided for the setting up of residential colleges. The acceptance of the 6 Australian colonies, which later became States, and the doctrine of free. compulsory and secular education of all citizens placed a heavy financial burden on the States. They relied to a great extent upon churches for the establishment and control of colleges and, while the amounts provided by governments for residential colleges varied among the States, it is generally true to say that the amounts decreased over the years so that the time lag between the establishment of a university and the foundation of collegeaffiliated with it became longer, lt is also true to say that because the colleges found it necessary to charge comparatively high fees they came to be regarded as abodes for the privileged and wealthy. This has been improved on very greatly. We sometimes think we are not making progress, but in this field we have. 
After World War 11 the colleges were faced with 2 urgent problems - the influx of ex-servicemen studying under the Commonwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme and the pressures of inflation. No large scale building programmes were embarked upon and students were packed in, leading to a large increase in residential student numbers. Two important steps after 1945 greatly helped the colleges. The first was the introduction of the Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme and its subsequent extension in 1951. The provision of a living allowance, subject to a means test, under the scheme brought the prospect of a place at a residential college within the reach of students who were not comparatively wealthy. The second step was the provision of an annual unmatched grant by the Federal Government from 1951 onwards towards the teaching and administrative costs of student residences. The initial grant in 1951 was $50,000 and this has been further improved. 
A further land mark in the development of Commonwealth assistance to residential colleges was the report of the Committee on Australian Universities in 1957, commonly known as the Murray Committee, which, recognising the benefits of college experience, recommended that the Commonwealth should provide $1.2m in 1958-60 for capital works for colleges on a $1 for $1 basis with State governments. The acceptance of this recommendation by the Commonwealth invigorated a programme of college expansion. Tn Queensland the provision of Commonwealth aid of $27,500 to each college, together with aid from the Queensland Government of about $200,000 to each college, enabled 7 of the 8 colleges to move to the St Lucia site by the end of I960. Such assistance was particularly important in Queensland where decentralisation of population, unparalleled anywhere else in Australia, dictates the urgent need for residential accommodation. The expansion in residential places for students since 1957 has been well illustrated in figures I have here. I will not quote them because I am trying to save some little time in this address. The total Commonwealth grant to all States for residential colleges, excluding the Australian Capital Territory, between 1958 and 1969 was $21,258,119, while proposed expenditure for 1970-72 is S9,16S,700. 
Student residences are an accepted part of university planning. In country areas such as Townsviile or Armidale the existence of a university depends on the provision of student residences. This is demonstrated very clearly by the numbers which I will quote. The number has already been quoted by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  but I was not in the House to hear them. It is interesting to note that the percentage of students in residences - if the honourable member for Denison has quoted the figures, they are still worth repeating - at the University of New England was 85.9%; at the University of Townsville it was 73.8%; at the University of Tasmania it was 24.5%; and at the University of Queensland it was 20.5%. So of the 4 highest percentages it can be seen that 2 of them came from Queensland. In demonstrating that I might point out that, while that is particularly apparent in those universities, the universities of the cap ta cities also can only fulfil the needs of their students by the establishment of colleges and halls of residence to accommodate country students. It is widely recognised that apart from providing essential accommodation, the colleges offer students unique opportunities for study, discussion and thought. These circumstances which are suitable for study and discussion are not easily found in lodgings other than in these colleges. 
In addition to the percentages and the figures I have quoted - and I want to say how pleased I am to see the expenditure for the triennium being completed in the 2 instances that were quoted  -  J. also want to point to another set of figures taken from the Australian Universities Commission's fourth report of May 1969. This gives the number of students coming from country areas. Here again the decentralisation that operates in Queensland is demonstrated. This is something which 1 believe all governments should take a great interest in and something which should be encouraged. I refer again to this table. It says that the number of students in residence from country areas at the University of Townsville is no less than 87%; at the University of Tasmania it is 73.6% ; at the University of New England it is 72.8%; and at the University of Queensland it is 69.1%  -  again the 4 highest percentages for students from country areas. I have already mentioned that the halls of residence and these residential colleges do form an essential part of the universities situated in metropolitan areas. 1. rise tonight mainly to stress the tremendous importance to my own State of Queensland and I recognise in some slightly lesser degree this follows throughout the whole of this great Commonwealth of ours. In supporting the Bill, I express the hope that we will continue to improve in every field the standard of education throughout the Commonwealth because we have a need to do it. Those people who have studied education overseas realise this only too well. It is against that background that I have very great pleasure in supporting the Bill. 

 Dr JENKINS (Scullin) [9.20J- I do not wish to delay the passage of this Bill. I have no objection to it, nor have I any objection to most of the remarks that have been made by other speakers. But this is a Bill that affects Monash University, and I spent something over 8 years on the University Council from the first year of the operations of this institution. Indeed, one of the jobs 1 had arising out of that was to serve for a time on the Naming of Buildings Committee which dealt with the naming of halls of residence. I think it is generally realised that due to an initial misunderstanding on the establishment of Monash, ils origins were hurried along so that it could start operating from 1960. Of course, Monash started the very successful experi ment with these halls of residence in Deakin Hall, which was the first hall at the university. 
This Bill deals with the problems of Roberts Hall and, as the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  staled in his second reading speech, due to delays in planning, the matching grants from the State had not caught up with the Commonwealth amount for the triennium to 1969. Therefore, this Bill is for the purpose of allowing that amount to be used. I think it should be realised that in this area, with perhaps the somewhat artificially accelerated rate of development of Monash, there has been some advantage in this delay, in that the delay in the expenditure and in the planning that occurred in the preceding triennium allowed the planning of this hall to be integrated with the building programme for the 1970-72 triennium. In effect, because of the delay and now that we have to authorise this expenditure, the University itself will probably end up with a much better residential complex in this sense. 
When we speak of these residential colleges we are not necessarily dealing with the total university concept. I think we should remember that these halls provide more than just living quarters for young men and young women who attend these universities. These halls provide the opportunity for them not so much to take part in community affairs, although so many of them do - they are not for the minority who take part in excessive university dissent, and they are very much the minority - but they are places where students are taught to think and to question and, if necessary, to dissent and raise problems. Residential halls as such assist this education by helping students to sort out what they feel is right and wrong and to express their feelings in this way. The students in these residential halls have a great advantage in living with other students, being able to discuss and receiving the guidance of tutors in the college which would not be available to those who did not use residential colleges. It may be that out of the experience of these sorts of colleges the La Trobe University has come forward with the idea that all students there, if not living in, at least should be associated with the residential colleges for various parts of their university life. 
I believe that some of the experience of Monash and other universities has probably led to this concept. I am sure it is going to give us much better rounded personalities among the educated people the universities produce because despite all that is said about university students, the majority of them come out as useful citizens, some of them perhaps with my political views or the political views of the Minister for Education and Science. But they are well rounded individuals in their profession, and that is what we want. This is what we want to encourage. 
J believe that this concept of residential halls where all students have some association is going to lead to much better development of the future. One of my colleagues mentioned the problem of part time students at the university of Wollongong where residential halls do not have so much effect. I was a part time student during study for my degrees in both science and medicine, so I know what they experience. One of the great criticisms that has been put forward is that amongst these part time students there is a high failure-to-finish rate as far as courses are concerned. But I would suggest that the gaining of a degree is not necessarily the measure of the education of the individual and that many who have failed to finish but who have essayed this part time activity are much better suited for the community because of it. 
We should note some of these factors when we are discussing residential halls because while here we have specific instances in Tasmania and Victoria, in the future this Parliament will be faced with many other problems. There will be a problem in Victoria of how we are to set up a fourth university, which undoubtedly will have to be in a country area. If one knows the population distribution of that State one will realise that the residential hall complex at that university will have to be quite large. Our experience in what has been done on a State and Commonwealth co-operative basis in providing residential halls will, I think, allow us to evolve a system rather different from the old Oxbridge tradition and more in the tradition, as mentioned by my honourable friend, of the red brick university. 
Most of the universities of today are red brick universities. Perhaps from this experience we will be able to develop universities that give university students not only just a rigid training in a discipline but make them well rounded and well educated individuals, not just technicians who will give great benefit to this country. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Dr MACKAY (Evans) [3.57- When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  introduced this subject I was one who rose in my place to support it because I look forward to the continuation of this kind of consideration and this dicussion which has been introduced in such a way that we can give only scant attention to the importance and the content of it today. I believe that there is need for a much deeper and thoroughgoing examination of this question and I congratulate  Mr Speaker  on the paper which he has circulated to honourable members, through the Standing Orders Committee, and also the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and other honourable members who in times past have sought assiduously to direct our attention in this direction. 1 approach the subject from a somewhat different viewpoint to begin with but I believe the conclusions are the same, lt is obvious to one who looks through the daily Press and listens to discussions taking place throughout the nation thai there is concern about government in ils broadest sense. This concern relates to law and order in (he community, to discipline and to leadership. 
There are increasing signs that Australia may need 'to find a new level of discipline - either accepted in the form of voluntary self-restraint and willingness to abide by the rules, or, if this fails from within, then imposed from without. But before talking about insistence on law and order, it surely is desirable, and indeed essential, to look at the institutions that such a move would seek to uphold. Just how adequate are the safeguards of democracy in our present parliamentary system, for instance? Change is everywhere. Unless people, especially young people, are confident that they can achieve change by lawful means, they are under tremendous pressure and tension to adopt unlawful means. Theoretically our system of elections and Parliamentary government gives everyone the opportunity to influence and indeed to lead and assist movements for radical change in our laws and concept of government. Yet, to be honest, how true or valid is such an assumption? First of all, we must examine the possibilities for radical change within the parly system as we know it. Especially we must look at the opportunities for a meaningful existence for Opposition members of Parliament if we are to avoid explosions such as the one we saw in Canberra recently. How much can an opposition or its members affect positively the course of government today? Are they destined to a life of criticising what is apparently inevitable until the Government is either gradually enlightened or deposed? ls there no adequate vehicle for their constructive thinking and action? 1 am afraid my answer to that, broadly speaking, is no. 
Our present parliamentary system has, in my book, broken down, or it has lost its usefulness duc to antiquated concepts. Debate in this House is actually a final sham process, like a school debate where 2 sides confront each other, rightly or wrongly clinging to party lines. All too often, but not always, the real debate in Parliament, or rather in government, takes place today inside the government organisation. The party room is the final area of confrontation which brings together the differences of private opinion, committee and cabinet deliberations in a decisive way. The best debates by far usually occur in the Government Party's meetings. By the time measures are taken into the Parliament there is no longer much room for debate or amendment, and the long, repetitious and often recriminatory harangues which follow have a foregone conclusion, almost inevitably. For an Opposition, and especially for individual opposition members with real and constructive ability, this must be frustrating in the extreme. Must it continue in that way? I am bound to say not only that it can be changed but also that it must be changed if the Parliament as we know it is to survive. Even the amount of real debate and opportunity for amendment that I have described has begun to diminish seriously in recent years, often under the extreme pressure of legislative programmes. 
Even Government Party members are finding that ex cathedra pronouncements are made , on matters of great moment concerning which they have had little say at all, and, having been made they are insisted upon without any willingness for debate or amendment again because of the pressure of events. Therefore a radical change is overdue. My first proposal, which would be even prior to the Committee proposals of which I am a complete supporter, is that there ought to be a more radical look at the process of Parliament itself, because I believe that the present first, second and third readings of Bills are well-nigh meaningless. I personally would keep the form but drastically alter the content. For example, I would make it mandatory in a large number of types of Bills for the first reading to be a presentation, not of a codified and detailed piece of legislation already determined but a broad presentation to the Parliament and the people of Australia of the intent:ons of the Executive, of the content of the legislation - if you like, a broad conspectus pf the proposed Bill. This would not be a Party business at all at the first reading stage, but it would be a presentation to the Parliament as a whole by the Executive or by the person initiating the measure of the new issues being proposed. 
Debate, after a suitable period, would then follow in depth, with no vote taken except when the matter had been sufficiently discussed. Every member of Parliament would thus, regardless of party, be able to make constructive criticism or proposals without being polarised into party positions because a vote was due. Humbug would be exposed as such and real merit would emerge. Following the first reading discussion the Executive and the Government parties would prepare the actual presentation of the drafted legislation before the second reading debate. This would be a briefer process, possibly restricted to no more than 3 speakers to a side, with a defence by the Government of the position it finally adopts, and either agreement or final criticism and disagreement by the Opposition. Committee debate would follow but be absolutely restricted to a scrutiny of the drafting of the Bill. The final or third reading stage would be much as at present. 
This may not sound a very revolutionary proposal but I believe it would lead to a fundamental change in the processes of the' Parliament. It would open up opportunities for these committee discussions following that first general stage. The nation would hear real and constructive debate. The Government would be given a wider and more valuable collation of viewpoints on proposed measures and new qualities of leadership would be encouraged. When this had been accomplished the effect inside the existing parties could be tremendous. Freed from the tensions in the first instance of party loyalty versus personal conviction, most members and perhaps even Ministers would be encouraged to a new dynamism in their parliamentary performance. The Press, radio and television would be able to direct attention to the most meritorious ideas regardless of their party background and so would be in a better position to avoid being labelled as supporting one party or another. 
There is no future for a non-party system in parliamentary democracy and it would be a vast mistake if we thought that introducing a committee type of arrangement could do away with the confrontation of political parties with different philosophies. No Government could work efficiently, if at all, under such circumstances. But there is no reason at all why a non-partisan discussion of the type I have outlined should not proceed. First there would be the committee deliberation in depth and then the inevitable party polarisation prior to legislation in Parliament. A new responsibility- could emerge in representational government.- The emergence of a committee system would thus be a natural development. I look forward to studying the paper presented by  Mr Speaker  and the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. 1 trust that before very long adequate time and attention will be directed in this place to this vitally important subject. 

 Mr BEAZLEY (Fremantle) 4.2]  -  I join with the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  in expressing gratitude to the  Speaker  for his paper on the committee system. The ineffectiveness of institutions such as Parliament and arbitration is sending more and more issues to the streets. Sometimes the defect is in the parliamentary electoral system, characterised by malapportionment: sometimes it is in an undemocratic upper House. But mostly it is in the unsatisfactory relationship of the Executive and the legislature. Yet Parliament is an institution which ought to have rights and powers quite apart from the rights and powers of the Executive Government. Apropos of what has been said by the honourable member for Evans, may 1 say that 1 have experienced 3 greater frustration sitting behind a government than sitting in opposition to a government. 
Method1! of parliamentary debate are becoming more and more shallow. Amendments submitted often are rejected in the House of Representatives then moved by :he Government in the Senate 10 similar purport. I have seen this happen irrespective of the party in power, lt would be better for the investigation of suggested amendments to take place in Committee. Debate in the House would be far better informed as a result of this prior detailed examination. Outside interests affected by legislation should have a chance to explain their position to such a committee and be cross-examined by members of the committee This would take away the sort of irresponsibility of the mere assertion by professional bodies that legislation is contrary to their interests. I mav say apropos of legislation now before the House, that when some representatives of the optometrical association would have preferred that there was no amendment in favour of ophthalmologists if there could not be one for optometrists, it seemed to me' that their professional interest was overriding the interests of the public outside who probably have an interest in some extension of the benefits. I merely say that if a committee could cross-examine the bodies concerned there would be a higher level of thinking on their part about what' they submit to the Parliament. The committee system would develop a connection between the legislature and the administration. Administrative considerations would benefit Parliament and some political problems might become apparent- to civil servants, the benefit then being mutual. 
The need for Parliament to have representatives who may regularly hear the detailed submissions of experts concerning legislation and administration, and to have the opportunity to question these experts is, I think, becoming more and more apparent. We would then not have a situation in which everything is filtered to the House through the mind of the Minister. 
A vast amount of legislation does not involve party political philosophy but is technical and needs committee examination. Issues discussed and recommendations arrived at away from an atmosphere of partisan attitudes and controversy may lead to a bet er quality of legislation. The complexity of Parliament seems to me to call increasingly for the committee system, lt would lead to more care in the drafting of legislation if it were known that the legislation must run the committee gauntlet. It could provide a forum before which could come people with a genuine grievance about the operation of existing legislation. It could be a source of fruitful suggestions for amendments to improve legislation and. not merely the legislation before the House. lt might lead to an understanding of the sources of different points of view on the part of members themselves which cannot rationally be considered in the atmosphere of public clash in the House. In committees issues are treated on their merits in a way that they are not so treated in public. 
Committees can use the abilities ot all members and consider the ideas of all members and nol confine this utilisation of skill to Ministers and the occupants of Opposition front benches. Committees are absolutely vital lo any real examination by Parliament of the Budget, the Estimates, and the operation of th; tax system and the equity of taxation. Parliament's financial control is now its greatest weakness. Committees may well be adapted to special inquiries which the Parliament may wish to initiate. We do need more select committees but they arc rarely appointed. A greater respect for the committee system may give us the advantage and the effectiveness of more frequent use of select committees. 
The ability of a committee to question a Minister may be important. We have too great a tendency for legislation to be introduced and put through as a matter of loyalty, or opposed as a matter of partisanship, without rational examination in depth. The existence of committees would enable joint sittings with Senate committees where necessary and would result in more minds in the Parliament contributing to thinking, and in discussion new convictions emerge. Committees of the Parliament accessible to the public and to outside witnesses, appointed from time to time, may well tend to allay grievances in the community and, I believe, increase respect for Parliament and intelligent use of Parliament. 
We need a committee to go into the petitions presented to the Parliament, or subject committees might consider petitions which come within their subject matter. Our present approach to petitions is offhand and utterly disrespectful to the electorate. Interrogation by such committees may improve the standards of administration. The Leader of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  may take a different view of the role of the legislature should he go into Opposition. Consider the appalling blunders by cabinets of the 20th century - I leave out those in this country - especially those blunders which led to wars. I do not refer merely to the Australian Cabinet The idea of the accountability of the Executive to a really informed Parliament is an immense safeguard. If honourable members read the memoirs of  Sir Edward  Grey, Viscount Grey of Fallodon, entitled Twenty-five Years, 1892-1916', they would see how he deceived the British Parliament on the arrangements he had made with France, arrangements which I think ultimately were disastrous in 1914. I believe that most disasters perpetrated by cabinets were arranged behind the backs of parliament and away from public opinion. 
The tabling of detailed parliamentary reports by committees will lift the level of parliamentary, public and Press information. The people do not have a vested interest in good fronts presented by govern ments but they do have a vested interest in good administration. The committee system, in my view, tends to both good legislation and good administration. Question time is jammed hopelessly - so is the notice paper with questions on notice. This illustrates the drought of information in the legislature. The committee system could go a long way towards rectifying this paucity of information. I am sure the system is the next step forward in parliamentary practice. 
ft does defeat the Bill. It reads: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
All you have left is the amendment in these words:  the technical evaluation and any cost benefit analyses carried out by the Commonwealth for the project near Bundaberg be made available to this House'. 
The Bill therefore goes, and that amendment will be in lieu of the Bill. This is the amendment proposed and supported by the Australian Labor Party. It is quite obvious that it will defeat the Bill. I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield who summed up very well indeed. There are one or two other comments about which I agree with him. I agree with his desire to see primary industries made efficient. I think that this is a good objective. But where the honourable member for Bradfield got off the line was in his assessment of what was going lo be achieved by this project. In point of fact this scheme is designed for the very purpose of making the growing of sugar in the Bundaberg district efficient and profitable. This scheme will stand up to an economic investigation despite what the honourable member said. In a very kindly way I want to draw his attention to the fact that this scheme docs not increase the production of sugar because the level of production is already set out in assignments and by the whole system of sugar production. What this scheme will do is to secure the production of the sugar that is already allocated to that area. 
It allows the full quota to be produced. 
It increases it only to the amount that Australia is expected or is allowed to produce. In point of fact the sugar industry is quite profitable. It is necessary to have a sugar industry in the whole area of the north of Queensland to enable the full utilisation of the land and to support the population in that area and cater for all the extra benefits that go with intensive agricultural .production. I want to refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby). His  speech was one of the strongest condemnations made tonight of the amendment although in fact he said he supported it. In some of his comments nc said that one could get a cost benefit analysis and if one did not like it simply scrap it and get another to suit the occasion. If he gets the cost benefit analysis that is asked for in this amendment he can scrap it and get another one that he likes. Furthermore, he said that decisions should not be made on these analyses alone. I agree with the assessment of the honourable member for Bradfield on this matter. He assessed it quite well. He said there is no magic formula. That was another one of his statements. The honourable member for Riverina went on with great flights of fancy about the development of irrigation and- what it will achieve but he was well away from this project and although I would hope some of those things might in time come true they have very little relationship to the Bill now before the House. 
I now want to deal with the Summary of a Report on Water Conservation. Underground Water Supplies and Irrigation. The actual report was handed out to members of the Government Members National Development Committee. 
People from the Bundaberg and District Irrigation Committee came down and put their case to the members of the National Development Committee. If anyone in this House wanted to inquire into what was' going on I am quite sure the Committee would have been very happy to have supplied the information. 
Copies of the report were given to members of the Committee. 
It was not that we were privileged people at all. Those people presented this to us in furtherance of their case. However, if there is to be a cost benefit analysis I am not against this at all; I would go along with the idea of having it. But 1 point out that this scheme was given No. 1 priority by the Queensland Government. If there are people in this House who want to disparage the Queensland Government then I am not one of them. 1 believe the Queensland Government has made a very good assessment of the projects in that State. There is no reason why it should not have done so. It has the whole State to consider and there still remain to be completed the Burdekin and Border Rivers projects which were mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson. But in their order of priority they were given an assessment by the Queensland Government and I believe that there was a very careful and comprehensive cost benefit analysis made of all the projects. If 1 am wrong then we have not had any evidence of it here in this place. Anyone interested in it could have obtained the information from the Queensland Government or they could have got it from someone in the Bundaberg area. I want to quote from this report about which I have been speaking. The foreword was written by  Mr Ben  Anderson who is the  Chairman  of this organisation. He is a great Queenslander. I commend him and his committee for the work they did in producing this document. It states: 
This joint report compiled by the Department of Primary Industries- 
Honourable members should listen to this ; and the Irrigation and Water Supply Commission and presented to the Ministers of the respective departments supersedes a previous report that was released in December 1966. 
Can anyone suggest that attempts were made to hide this report when it was presented to the Ministers in the State House? Surely the report had to go there in order for the project to receive a priority for consideration bv the Commonwealth Government. Even if there was need of further information for the House this scheme should not be condemned. The foreword continues: 
The thoroughness of the survey covering the Bundaberg Region must satisfy the Lower Burnett Community as it realises upon examination how well all phases of the major irrigation scheme have been investigated and the conclusion whereby the report declares "That there is a significant degree of urgency for provision of the Stage 1 of the Bundaberg Irrigation Scheme. 
I repeat that the Queensland Government has approved the scheme and has given it No. I priority and has approached this Government for finance to implement it. The attitude of the Commonwealth to Queensland's approach to the scheme is allimportant. These people did their very best. That is why they came to Canberra and presented this document to the members of the Government Members National Development Committee. 
They could hardly go round to every honourable member. I am supporting the scheme and I congratulate the people who went so far as to provide the members of that Committee with this report. There may be some criticism about the information available. Honourable members opposite say they have not got all the information they would like. We have been dealing with these schemes for quite a long time. People really - interested in the scheme could have obtained the information they wanted if they had made a reasonable effort to get it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no point of order involved. 
In the foreword the Committee slates: 
Water, in great quantities is absolutely essentia! for this otherwise well developed area. 
This point was conceded by the honourable member for Dawson. He said that the area needed only a supply of water and that it had everything else. Therefore this project is much more economic than it would be otherwise. Again, he made the point - to give him credit where it is due - that this would he  a  much more economic proposition than embarking on something entirely new. The foreword continued: lt is the one commodity needed to guarantee constant production and without it a rising population cannot enjoy the natural desire to develop a wonderful piece of a great Continent to the full. 
I now want to refer to a publication called the 'Australian'. Some honourable members who are not always in favour of irrigation schemes might think that this is a reasonably good newspaper to read. An article in the 'Australian' stated: 
The sugar industry provides the basis of prosperity for the Bundaberg district - and water is the basis of prosperity for the sugar industry. 
Without sugar, Bundaberg could not remain one of Queensland's major provincial citied and support a district population of 45,000- 
Is this not a worthwhile aim? I am sure it is. I would like to know who thinks that this is not a worthwhile aim. The article continues: and without water the sugar industry cannot remain economically secure. 
It's a simple equation, but it sums up the situation in the Bundaberg district which last year was hit by its third severe drought in 6 years. 
Yet honourable members talk about years in which we can dry farm. The report continues: 
In a normal year - if: there is such a thing in the Bundaberg sugar industry - the district can earn about $34 million from a peak nf 341,000 tons. But sugar production last year was well below peak and the return from 212,000 tons was only $21 million. 
Simple arithmetic shows that there was a loss there alone of some $13m. That  would  be the cost of th:s scheme, as pointed out by my colleague the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann).  I would like to read a little more of this article. It continues: 
In the three severe droughts .since 1964, it is estimated that the Bundaberg sugar industry lost $32 million because of below peak production. 
These figures are not from some biased source, as people like lo suggest sometimes. They were published in the 'Australian' of 21st May, which is not so long ago. They are fairly recent figures. I could quote a great deal more from th s fairly full article. While this irrigation scheme is designed primarily for sugar I want to take up the argument about whether anything else is involved. Critics said that nothing else was involved but I interjected and said that something else was involved. This article states: 
While the irrigation scheme is designed primarily for sugar it will also help other agriculture. A substantial tobacco industry, worth $1 million a year, and bean growing should gain greater stability. 
For a start about 30,000 acres of irrigated land could be used to grow additional small crops, but sugar industry leaders expect all available land to be growing sugar by the end of the century. 
This statement just goes to show the necessity for schemes such as this. Anyone who argues against them in the light of those figures and other figures I could quote is not trying to promote the essential decentralisation that this country so sorely needs. We in Queensland are very proud of what has been achieved in this direction, lt could be claimed (hat what I now propose to quote is biased. I used the 'Australian' article particularly because that claim could not be made about it. I want to refer to remarks made by the Secretary of the Bundaberg District Cane Growers Executive. He said: 
The scheme is economically justified. The number of 1,458 assignments given security, increased efficiency and volume of production makes it unique in the State lo dale in the ratio of farms served lo capital cost. 1 believe that the evidence is irrefutable. The need for this scheme, its economic, soundness and its potential for keeping a district such as Bundaberg viable and prosperous is undoubted. We heard honourable members speak about the. need for railways and other things. I want to refer now to the value of this scheme. apart from sugar production and (he production of other agricultural products. Bundaberg needs this water. Bundaberg at present obtains its water from underground sources mainly on the south side of the Burnett River. The report states: 
During 1964 and 1965 there was considerable difficulty in maintaining a satisfactory supply from this source due lo the fall in the water table level. This fall was a result of the high demand for irrigation water in the area east of the North Coast railway and (he lack of replenishment lo withstand this demand. 
Il is estimated that the present safe yield from me area supplying the city may only be 4,000 acre feet per annum, but even this would he in jeopardy should the continued high rale of pumping result in further lowering of the ground water table. 
With the increasing demand for' domestic and industrial supplies to the city, it is imperative that the present supply be supplemented from surface water sources. 
So there are many aspects of this scheme conveniently overlooked or disregarded by its opponents. Because this project has been condemned oh the ground of economics, I want again to quote from this publication. I do not propose to refer to ali pf the many figures supplied in support of the scheme but will select a few. The value of the shortfalls in the 2 successive years 1964 and 196S at the respective overall prices received reached the staggering total of $18,776,000, about 40% of the capital cost of the stage 1 development of the proposed irrigation project. I am indebted to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  for arranging a trip to this area. The people were anxious to show the capacity of the district. They certainly were not hiding it. The honourable member for Kennedy arranged the trip that he talked about in the course of his speech, and I was very much impressed by the need for the scheme. I was happy to see, as he was, some members of the Australian Labor Party taking part in the trip. 
Turning to direct losses, I think' the honourable member for Kennedy quoted some $5m. There are perhaps a few other items in the figure that I will quote. The average annual drought loss is $5im. This figure is made up by a region sugar production loss of $4,432,000, increased milling costs of $1,033,000, loss of road transport fees of $31,300 and loss of harbour dues of $64,700. This makes a total o $5,561,000. When we look at the annual loss than can be saved by this project it stands beyond any doubt as being very well worth while. I repeat that this scheme is being carried out in an area that is already well developed. In addition to that there are secondary effects. Here again, I think mention has been made that loss of production on farms has a very direct effect on other activities in or directly related to th: sugar industry throughout the district. Ir terms of gross value of production the sugar industry requires a higher labour force for harvesting and processing at area level than do most other primary industries. The sugar industry is a very valuable source of employment. Consequently, any decline i:i productivity as a result of drought can have severe social and economic consequences for the region. As my friend the honourable member for Kennedy said, there is a humanitarian aspect to this. The honourable member for Bradfield was good enough to go along with ' that. He was prepared to agree that this was a worthwhile attitude to take. 
While losses .in the field cannot be evaluated precisely in economic terms, the local average annual production loss was $4,432,000 - this was the figure I quoted before. The loss of $8,776,000 during the 1964-65 drought is obviously high.. It was estimated by the ANZ Bank that direct losses in wages by some 3,200 employees on farms and in mills during the 1965 harvest season amounted to some $3m. Arguments will be used to show that these people could have been employed somewhere else. But we have to promote development. We have the responsibility and the duty to promote the development of every part of this Commonwealth  that we can. It is very easy to see the expansion of our capital cities. We know that they are selfgenerating. But we have the responsibility to promote the development of other areas. This is one way in which development can be carried out. I must say - that it is a surprise to me to find there would be anyone with a full knowledge and understanding of the great value of this scheme who would be in opposition to it. 
I would like to. make one or two other points from the document I have referred to. I want to refer to the comparative returns from dry land and irrigated farms with total gross assignments of 75 acres. In the first instance I want to refer to the situation where the area irrigated from that 75 acres was only 39 acres as against 49 acres in dryland areas. With crops grown under dryland farm conditions - and 49 acres, I understand, is the maximum that can be continuously used from the area - the difference amounted to a benefit of some $949 in favour of the irrigated area after allowing for all of the costs of production - the extra cost of production that would have to be included. I will not quote all of the figures in this report. However, when we go on further to a greater degree of irrigation - and this is what we hope to achieve - when some 56 acres out of 75 can be irrigated, the advantage then shows up as no less than $3,130. This is a typical case of a farm that grows an assignment of 75 acres. Therefore, when we see the figures of production that can be achieved - and I have quoted only the benefit that can be obtained by irrigation - the tremendous value of the scheme to the sugar industry can be appreciated! I have figures on the value of the sugar industry generally which I probably will not have time to quote tonight. In debating this Bill I want to try to keep to the Bundaberg area. I wish to refer briefly to a few of the benefits that will be derived from this scheme, with security of production as a result of irrigation. They are set out in the report as follows: 
At Stage 1 ta) development where present peaks would he achieved from 32% of gross assignments there would be consistent production of annual milt  peaks which by elimination of past frequent shortfalls and stabilisation of the undergound water supply situation would provide an average annual increase in sugar production of 46.070 tons valued at $4.1m. 
If that is what the honourable member for Bradfield was referring to, he would be right. There will be an increase in production up to the quota, but it is soundly an- ticipated that there will bc a market for this production. We will not be producing something that cannot be marketed. The report goes on to refer to the benefits as follows: 
The maintenance of peak production would ensure a substantia) reduction in average costs of growing, milling and handling. 
Who was talking about efficiency? This is the way it should be done. The report continues: 
The more consistent and increased produclion would ensure more efficient use of land, plant, mills,' transport and other facilities, all 'geared' for peak production. 
There would be full utilisation of everything concerned with the industry. The third benefit is set out in the report as follows: 
Elimination of catastrophic losses in prolonged droughts such as in the 1899-1910 period . . . 
I think my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy referred to that period of drought. Other benefits would be: 
Providing the opportunity for further in creasing annual irrigated sugar production from assigned areas . . . 
When market conditions permit the scheme will enable a further annual increase in irrigated sugar production . . . 
I emphasise the words 'when market conditions permit*. Here I agree with the honourable member for Dawson that there will be an increase in the amount allowed for Australian production under the International Sugar Agreement. Let me add that if we let our production fall we will not have the same claim for a continued increase in our production. Other benefits set out in the report are: 
A high degree of economy inherent in expansion of production above existing neales since it would result from: more intensive use  of  existing lands: . (b) in the second stage from intensive use of mainly undeveloped lands within the general area required to be served by the works; 
more intensive use of established facilities including cane tram lines, mills, bulk handling, port. road, power and urban facilities. 
Elimination  of  frequent shortfalls which by reducing supplies available for export could, in the long term, provide opportunities  for other  countries to take over established  contracts. 
I mentioned that earlier, and it is true - 
More intensive development of  rural areas  further improving the ' environment fur secondary industry development already substantially established around Bundaberg and thus encourage further decentralisation in the Stale. 
Do we want any more than that to justify the scheme? I am sure that we do not. Let me refer to the efforts that have been made by the people concerned to provide the relevant information. If some people did not receive it I can say that the people concerned did their utmost to provide it. They submitted it to the Queensland Government. They did not want to hide it. They stand on it, and they are justified in standing on it. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
In the first instance 1 want to say that I support this Bill. I believe that it will serve a good cause that is in very great need and it is certainly a step in the right direction.  I  have listened with interest to the debate on this Bill. I believe that in the main the debate has been worthy of the cause which this Bill proposes to assist. It is sometimes an encouragement to hear the type of debate that has taken place on this Bill, and we do need that type of debate. Having said that I want to make a few comments about the remarks of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  who has just resumed his seat. In the main the honourable member based his case on the need for planning. Over the years I have heard a lot about planning. If there is one thing that is in fairly full supply in all the fields of endeavour it is planning. I. hope that I am making a fair assessment of what the honourable member had to say. I understood that he was suggesting that the Commonwealth could do all that was required in this field provided it sits down and makes the plans. There is nothing wrong with making plans but at the same time plans alone do not achieve the objective required 
If one is to plan for improvements in any field provision has to be made in the Budget for the plans. Furthermore, having done this it is necessary to provide the staff required in any given field. It is very difficult in the present circumstances to get the staff needed for the medical requirements of the community throughout this country today. If anyone finds that there is no difficulty in that field, I will inform him that there is such a difficulty in my own area. Only today in this House there was comment about the difficulty of finding staff in another field. It is not just a matter of planning, although planning is something to which I do not object, but the major feature is to progress towards the end result. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  according to the honourable member for Bendigo, indicated that there was an intention on the part of the Commonwealth to continue in this field as a part of a programme. 
The honourable member referred to- the position of voluntary bodies in obtaining assistance from the Commonwealth while they were receiving assistance from a State government. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
It will, of course, still be possible for  a  qualified body which receives a capital- or maintenance subsidy from the State, to receive the Commonwealth subsidy in addition. 
There might be a slight overlapping in that case but it does show that there is room for the additional subsidy, and the Minister did make that point. I commend the Minister and the Government for introducing this Bill. I have already said that I feel that this measure is a very worthy step forward in the direction in furthering a project which most if not all honourable members in this House have very much at heart. One of the very important factors in this field was referred to by the Minister and I want to reiterate it because it is of tremendous importance. In the words of the Minister: 
. the essential thing is to start remedial action while they are still young. 
This is of tremendous importance. Most people who have had experience with handicapped and retarded children realise that there is a great need for the treatment of these children to commence as early as possible. It is a tragedy to see circumstances in which it has not been possible to provide this treatment for some reason or another. I. have seen this in my area and no doubt it has been the experience in many areas. 
Something to which we should give consideration - and I am sure that the Government will give it consideration - is the fact, as was stated by the Minister, that there are some 50,000 handicapped children under 16 years of age in Australia, including those who have some physical handicap and those who are mentally retarded. The Minister went on to say that probably under half of these are adequately catered for by special facilities. This indicates that the Government and the Minister recognise the need for continuing this assistance and for helping handicapped children. The Government recognises the need for expansion of the measures to help them. 
One of the problems which confront the parents of handicapped children, whether they are handicapped physically or mentally or in both respects, is the problem that this disability creates in the home. In areas such as the one I represent where large distances are involved the task of taking handicapped children from one place to another adds to the very great problems that confront parents. Social activities, employment as well as ordinary domestic living are things that frequently have to take second place. I have had ample demonstration of these problems and I agree with the Minister completely that this is the case. To show how the problems of caring for these children affect parents I would like to quote from part of a letter I received recently on this matter. This letter refers to a child who is attending The Chalet for Children at Stanthorpe in Queensland, which is in my electorate of Maranoa. The letter, in part, states: 
Our child has beenat The Chalet for 3 years and 4 months, and we are extremely satisfied with the way he is looked after. 
Anyone who has not been personally involved in such a heart-breaking event as a young child with incurable brain damage, would not realise the tremendous feeling of gratitude and peace of mind that a home like The Chalet for Children offers. 
Further on, the letter states: 
At the time when our doctors told us that for the future of the rest of our family we must place our child in a home, we made inquiries throughout Queensland and in other States as to suitable institutions. 
This is the sort of strain that is placed on the parents of such children. The letter goes on to stare: 
Acting on a brochure we received from the Sub-Normal Children's Welfare Association, we  inspected The Chalet, and were immediately taken with the 'family' type atmosphere, and the progressive outlook of the director . . . 
I can tell you, the decision to move our child from the family circle was not an easy one, and we fully examined alt aspects of his future well-being. 1 give full credit to all people who are associated with the care of handicapped children. I give tremendous creditto them. While giving full credit to those who undertake this work in a voluntary way 1 admire those who devote themselves to this work even though, because of the fact that they are giving all of their time to it. they may have to make a living from such work. They also give very sympathetic and understanding care to children who need it. so much. 
It is not. my intention to take as much time as I would like to take on this subject because other honourable members wish to speak and much  of.  what 1 want to say has been said. But I want to quote from a copy of a letter that was sent to another member of Parliament. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  might recognise something to which this letter, refers because 1. know that you are concerned with it. The letter is from a leading psychiatrist. He states: 
The children at The Chalet' - 
This is The Chalet for Children - definitely qualify forthe additional benefit . . . 
That is, the intensive care benefit that was previously granted to them - 
The mailer is of crucial importance to very many parents, and through them the children, and indeed to the proper functioning of the home - the facilities for intensive care of the intellectually handicapped are, in general, grossly inadequate, and any private institution dedicated to this work needs constant and very full support. 
Asa practising psychiatrist,  I  am very aware of the needs of the intellectually handicapped, and can assure you that these children do qualify as needing intensive nursing home cure. 
While this is in another field it is allied to the subject matter of the Bill we are now discussing. I make the suggestion that there needs to be co-operation between the 2 Government departments which have the responsibility of providing the benefits and assistance that these children certainly deserve. 
While I commend and support the Bill I trust that the Government will give consideration to a further examination of the position of the parents whose children have to be taken into homes and who have to pay for their care. 1 hope that these parents will be assisted by the Government by way of additional assistance. By giving further consideration to the position of parents the Government will enable handicapped children to benefit from the excellent care and attention that is given in such homes as The Chalet for Children at Stanthorpe. If the Government could extend the Commonwealth benefit given to these children it would be of great benefit. Such assistance would remove from these homes some of the children who have to attend them. There is a need for special consideration for these children. I believe that every aspect of this matter should be examined and I am confident that the Government has this in mind. I leave the thought with the Minister that he might consult with his colleague the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  to see how the co-operation of their .2 departments can best be used for the benefit of these children who need assistance so very much. . 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What subsidy is paid by the Government to Ansett Airlines of Australia to provide the Brisbane-Cunnamulla air services. 
What is the total subsidy paid by the Government to Ansett Airlines of Australia. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill  1970,  which is now before the House, is designed to serve  2  main purposes. It will complement legislative action by the States, firstly, to implement a quota scheme for wheat deliveries and, secondly, to give discretionary authority to the Australian Wheat Board to sell wheat in Australia for purposes other than human consumption at prices lower than the price for human consumption. I wish to refer to some of the remarks made by previous speakers. Firstly, I offer my very warm congratulations to the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  on his maiden speech. It showed that he had made a very keen study of the wheat situation. I am sure that his speech represents only the beginning of many very valuable contributions to debates in this. House. 
I wish to touch on a few comments made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  He criticised the quota system. He, above all people, should know that the implementation of the quota system, which was recommended by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and which was accepted by this Government, was a matter for the States. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in answering a question in this House recently said that he was sick and tired of constantly explaining this to the people. Yet, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  came back with the same old story about the quotas and what this Government should have done about them. He said that the quotas were initiated here and were implemented by the States. The quotas were given the legality that only this Government could give them. But the detailed implementation of them was a matter for the States. 
If the honourable member does not know that now, all I can say is that it is nearly time that he did.  His  speech did not indicate that he does understand fully even at this time that this is the case. Whether or not the honourable member intended to convey a misleading interpretation, I do not know. What he did say was that it was one administration. How can anyone possible claim that in all reasonable fairness? The fact that the governments concerned are all of the same political colour does not make them one administration. Each government has separate responsibilities. This has been demonstrated constantly and clearly to be the case with regard to the wheat quota and the legislation that had to be brought down by the States to implement the quota in detail. 
What the honourable member for Mallee said is quite right. I wish to reply to one or two points made by the honourable member for Riverina. He referred to the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture. He said that if 12 months had been available in which to plan the quotas a better job would have been done. But what would have happened to the wheat industry in the 12 months that would be taken to do something about the quotas? What would have happened in the interim? What amount of wheat would have been lying around this country? What would have been the cost to the wheat growers to provide storage Ibr that wheat? While it would probably have been easier for all if this quota system could have been implemented earlier, I point out that it was implemented at the time that was suggested by the growers themselves through their own Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. That was the key to this situation. 1 say that had an attempt been made to try to implement the quota system earlier than it was introduced tremendous resistance would have come from Australian wheat growers. 
If anyone who thinks that it is an easy matter to try to predict the future - and anyone who makes a study of world markets should know that it is tremendously difficult to do so - let me quote a few figures to indicate how difficult it is. We have a responsibility not only to control production so as to maintain a reasonable price but also to ensure that the amount of wheat that can be produced and sold in Australia and at a reasonable price overseas is produced here. We cannot cut production ad lib just because we feel that it would protect some wheat growers. We have to try to find a happy medium or a sound balance. The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation has aimed at this objective. 
Let me return to the difficulty of trying to forecast world wheat markets. The volume of world wheat trade in 1958-59 was 36 million tons, or 1,320 mill on bushels. Seven years later, in 1965-66, it was 62 million tons. Three years later it was back to 45 million tons. Does anyone suggest that any person was capable of forecasting this change, or that the movements would have been along those lines? Let me give another example to show the difficulty involved in forecasting. End of season stocks in the 5 major exporting countries - the United States of America, Australia, Canada, the European Economic Community and Argentina - fell from 60 million tons in 1958-59 to about 33 n, 11ion tons in 1965-66, but they were back to 62 million Ions in 1968-69. Surely there is no need for any further evidence to indicate the tremendous difficulty of anticipating future wheat stocks, or, for that matter, any other world market stocks. They have a record of very quick changes, very distinct changes and very large changes. 
The honourable member for Dawson referred to a minimum quota. 1 realise that there are benefits in a minimum quota but 1 assure honourable members that there is no doubt at all that the States, before implementing quotas, would have given very full consideration to this matter, as would the members of the wheat growers associations throughout Australia. I know that in Queensland meeting after meeting was called to discuss quotas and to get (he opinions of the growers in that State. The honourable member for Dawson referred to a drought plan. Again I can see some merit in this but T suggest that it is not as simple as he suggests. We have to look at a cost benefit analysis. We have heard a great deal about this recently. I believe it is necessary to have a cost benefit analysis because we have to look at the benefits - and there are benefits to be had in such a plan - and we also have to look at the cost involved and at who will pay that cost, lt could mean a pretty heavy charge and someone will have to pay it. Of course we have been told that the wheat industry is regarded to be in credit. The honourable member for Dawson quoted a figure of about $400m and the honourable member for Riverina said about $300m. There is a slight difference between the honourable members but they are closer than they often are in their views on rural matters. 
Another point i would like to make about the speech of the honourable member for Riverina- 
J cannot be worried about thai. He said that  Mr Ridd  had stated that dishonest growers received the biggest quotas. What on earth does he think this Government can do about that? It is true that if a person puts in incorrect figures, he will get a quota according to those figures, unless of course he is found out. If you put wrong figures in for taxation purposes you will nol be taxed as much until of course you are caught. I do hope that those people who put in dishonest figures are found out and brought to book. But this has nothing al all to do with the Government or this Bill. The honourable member reiterated his concern for the wheat growers. I assure lbc House that I will take second place to no-one, the honourable member for Riverina or anyone else in this House, in my concern for the wheat growers, and I do not have to say this every time I stand up' in this place and speak about wheat because actions speak louder than words and the Government has done a great deal towards trying to cope with the tremendous difficulties confronting wheat growers in Australia today. 
With regard to hardship. I do point out that wheat growers are .suffering hardship. ] do not underestimate this hardship. It is faced by wheat growers in any part of Australia. But if there is one section of the wheal growing community in this country that is suffering grave hardship as a result of the position in which I hey are placed today, it is the people . in the drought striken areas of my State. The people with a problem of over-supply have a problem which is not nearly as great as the people suffering from under-supply. The honourable member for Riverina made the suggestion of paying $1.10 a bushel for all wheat produced. This is a good vote catching proposition. No doubt people who are looking for all the benefits they can get would be inclined to grab at such a plan. But in my opinion this is an irresponsible suggestion and if such a proposal- were implemented it would be to the detriment of the wheat growers of this nation. How would we be able to implement quotas if we were to continue to pay SI. 10 on all wheat produced? If such a plan were introduced it would certainly be very disadvantageous to the wheat growers. 
With regard to what the Australian Labor Party can do in this matter ( want to refer to a leading article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of Tuesday 26tb May 1970. The article is headed: 'Lucky Escape from ALP', ft reads: 
Australian taxpayer:, should be grateful lim I the Australian Labor Pty has been denied the opportunity over the past two decades to devise notional rural ' policies. 
That .statement is quite correct. This publication is nol one which is partial to the Australian Country Party. I have not sufficient time lo quote the whole of the article but it is available for anyone who wishes to read it. lt also states: 
Some nf the new Labor MP's, openly concerned at the amount of time their Party devotes to rural matters both in the House and iti Caucus, staged a show of strength last Friday when they forced  Dr Rex  Patterson, Labor's shadow Minister for Primary Industry, lo defer putting hi new wool programme to a Caucus vote until he produced a detailed report on its costs and benefits. lt went on to say: 
The rebels have received quite encouragement from the ALP Federal Executive where there have been reported gripes thai the Parliamentary brunch was spending too much lime on rural issues and neglecting the urban sector where the future strength of the Parly lies. 
I said quite recently, and 1 repeal, that the Labor Parly's shadow Minister for Primary Industry would, if ever he became the Minister, have the utmost difficulty in implementing the programme he has proposed here, because priority would be given to urban areas. There is no question about that and 1 have quoted the article in the 'Austraiian Financial Review' in support  of  that argument. Let me go a little further and say something about the success of stabilisation in overcoming the problems that are existing at the moment. The present scheme is the last of 5 successive stabilisation schemes of 5 years each, lt has met the problem  of  unprecedented production in Australia and overseas. There has been an explosion  of  production in Australia. That is admitted. It has been caused in part by low wool prices, ls this Government responsible for the world price of wool? Nobody could possibly suggest that that is likely. Yet honourable members opposite blame the Government They say that the expansion was encouraged by the Government. If I remember rightly the honourable member for Riverina said that this expansion took place in conjunction with the banks. If that is so - and for the sake of argument we will take his word for it - then the banks evidently did not think that the present situation was going to develop. They did not think it or they certainly would not have gone on with this expansion in production. I have mentioned before, and I do not want to repeat it, the difficulty of trying to assess that. But the industry in Australia has been faced with unprecedented problems of disposal and storage and the future policy was not easy to settle. I give great credit to the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation for the courage it showed in bringing down this policy of quotas to restrict production. An endeavour was made to implement these quotas as fairly as possible. There are anomalies, and they will be ironed out. I know that anomalies exist, but they would exist whoever was trying to handle this matter. This was an honest attempt by the Federation to deal with the situation as fairly and reasonably as possible. 
I want also to congratulate the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry on showing the same courage in taking what were no doubt in some quarters - and this has been proved - unpopular decisions, but they were the right decisions for the welfare of the Australian wheat grower and the Australian community. It takes courage to do this and the Australian wheat growers showed that courage, which was matched by the Ministers and the Government in accepting the advice that they got from them. 
We have been told that there was a lack of warning. The Minister for Primary Industry as far back as March 1968 gave some warning when talking to the Victorian Wheat and Woolgrowers Association, which is now the Victorian Farmers Union. He warned the organisation that the Australian Wheat Board's marketing success did not provide anyone with grounds for complacency. He said - and this is worth repeating: 
World markets were neither adequately remunerative nor unlimited in capacity. Those who had taken a view that there were ready markets should have been brought back to earth by the decline in the world prices in the preceding 8 or 9 months. 
Did anyone take any notice of that warning? No-one took notice of the warning. Growers kept on producing until a quota system was implemented. 
I want to refer now to the criticism of quotas. I want to say to those who have made the criticism that I have never yet heard of a reasonable alternative to the quota system. They criticise the system but offer nothing in its place. Another angle that I think should be noted is that one of the great needs of the wheat industry and the future of the wheat industry is that world stocks have to be controlled. We would have no hope of getting any sort of agreement on this vital matter for the future of the Australian wheat growing industry unless we were prepared to participate in a reduction of stocks. The Minister for Trade and Industry has done a grand job in endeavouring to get a worthwhile system, through the International Grains Arrangement, for the control of world production. Despite the tremendous strain and stress that have been placed on the system it is still operating and in it lies the hope of a sane and sound reasonable world wheat policy. We have not been able to get as many people as we would like to come into such an arrangement. Nevertheless it is there that it lies. Australia must work in conjunction with other countriesin placing restrictions on production to have a chance of getting a reasonable acceptance of a world quota, if one likes to call it that, or a world production of wheat. 
I do not want to take all the time that is available to me because there are other very competent and very experienced wheat growers in my Party who will have something to say about this subject. But I want to say something about the stockpile of wheat that has been mentioned. I want to commend the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation again because this body realised that there was a shortfall in the amount of prime hard wheat which might have been able to be exported this year. As a result of that, there is an increased stockpile of that type of what. I believe that this is the type of wheat which should in the main be stockpiled more than wheat which is not so saleable. I am referring to prime hard high protein quality wheat which is grown in 
Queensland. While Queensland has seasonal disadvantages it has the advantage of being able to grow this type of wheal and it is necessary that we should be able to fulfill the orders that come for this wheat. There has been some criticism of this position, but it was a very reasonable dec sion to try to improve the amount of wheat that was held under stockpiling. 
While we have had some problems. I for one - and I am sure there are very many other people with me - am very grateful that we have at this lime, and this will be in retrospect without the slightest shadow of doubt, a Government and a Minister who that have an understanding of and sympathy for primary producers and that encouraged them  10  go on in spite of the criticism received. I have great sympathy for the Minister for Primary Industry who has suffered criticisms and constant hammerings over the years he has been in office. He has come through with flying colours. He handled one of the most difficult jobs that ever a Minister has had to handle in this Parliament. He has done so with great credit to himself and to the Government. This is acknowledged noi only in the Austral ail Country Party but across the broad spectrum of the Australian community. It was a good thing also that we had in the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation men of similar calibre. I am very proud that the  President  of the Federation,  Mr Les  Price, is a fellow Queenslander. As Senior Vice-Pres dent he contributed very considerably to the sound policy that was recommended lo the Government by the Federation. 

 Mr Speaker, I have left unsaid so much that would be so worthy of mention on this occasion, but if what I have said has served to convey to this House and to the people of Australia something of the problems and something of the very courageous and effective way in which they have been handled by this Government and by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, these remarks will have served their purpose as well perhaps as a longer oration might have done. 

 Mr DALY  (Grayndler) J.4.27J  -  I join in this debate for sentimental reasons because with due respect to the Australian Country 
Part) I suppose my background in the wheat industry is more outstanding - this is quite evident from the speeches that have been made - than the background of those sitting in the Country Party corner. I was horn in Currabubula and that, as honourable members know, is the centre of a great wheat growing area. I lived there in a time of Country Party governments when wheat was ls lOd a bushel, yet the Country Party talks of those days as the good old days. So I am stirred to rise in this debate because of the crisis in the wheat industry caused by the extraordinary, strange and outrageous policies of the present Liberal-Country Party Government.  Mr E.  J. Donath, Senior Lecturer in Economic Geography at the Melbourne University, writing in the 'Australian' of 10th April, had this lo say on the wheal industry: 
The world when! situation has never looked as grim for Australia as it does now. 
For the first time in history, Canada, wilh 960 million bushels has a higher carry-over than the United States which itself, with 916 million bushels, holds the largest stocks for inure than a decade. 
The slocks of the main wheat exporting countries are large enough to satisfy dIe world's wheat importing countries for at least 18 months. 
If no wheat v.ns grown at all in Austraia in 1971. we could satisfy all our local and overseas requirements, and there would still be a carry-over of 100 million bushels al the end of 1972. 
Without any reservations whatever 1 can well understand how sensitive Country Party members, particularly the last  speaker,  are at this slate of affairs, because this situation has been brought about in Australia as a result of the policies that they have followed. Why.  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I remember seeing advertisements urging the farmers to grow more wheat. They were urged to do so even by slogans on postage stamps. They were asked: 'Please grow more wheat'. This was urging them to go along their way to bankruptcy. Now Government supporters - particularly Country Party members - arc extremely sensitive on this question. When we put a cat amongst the pigeons wc get a reaction and we are getting it today on this issue. It is no wonder the Country Party members are very sensitive to the criticisms of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby). 
No wonder members of the Country Party are sensitive to the penetrating accusations of shortcomings made by the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Riverina, who continually remind members of the Country Party of these things. I do not worry about members of the Liberal Party. They have no rural' policy. They leave rural matters to those who sit in the corner of this chamber. That is why the Government is in such a hell of a mess with wheat today. 
Those 2 notable representatives of the primary producers.the honorable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson, have got under the skin of honourable members opposite. There is no doubt that the policies expounded by the honourable member for Dawson on behalf of the Opposition are endorsed by the vast majority of wheat growers. Let me remind honourable members opposite that it was a Labor government which introduced the first wheat stabilisation scheme in Australia. It was a Labor government, after the Liberal-Country Party Government which was in office until the early war years, which first stabilised the wheat industry and gave a guaranteed price. It was not until Labor come to office in 1941 that primary producers were able to get out of bankruptcy. Instead of owing the banks money they were then in a position to lend money to the banks. This Government has completely destroyed that stability in the industry with wildcat schemes to encourage primary profiteers to grow products for which not only the Australian producer but producers in other countries cannot find markets. 
Do not think I am talking idly. To get farmers to march in their thousands must be a most difficult task, yet in Melbourne 10,000 farmers marched. They refused to accept assurances given by a couple of Country Party Ministers. It was a rebellion against the policies of the Liberal-Country Party Government and its destruction of the security that should be the right of all wheat growers in Australia. If they had been 10,000 unionists marching they would have been branded as Communists. They were farmers fighting for justice and decent representation by honourable members opposite. At a Country Party conference held in Warrnambool recently blame was laid at the door of the Liberals. This was an easy way out. It was suggested that the Country Party should withdraw from the coalition. The conference also told Country Party members in this place: 'Stand up and do your job for the wheat growers and other primary producers because we are not satisfied with our rural representation in the national Parliament.' So when honourable members opposite seek to criticise the policies put forward by the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson let them remember that their own organisations have condemned members of the Government Parties for their incompetence and their inability to save farmers from bankruptcy. 
I noticed that the farmers marched even in Perth. They were led by a woman. She had a good deal to say about rural matters and her remarks are worth reading. I know that what I say hurts members of the Country Party. They say that only trade unionists demonstrate and that they are Communists. Those farmers who marched are not Communists. They were fighting for justice; fighting to save themselves from bankruptcy; fighting to save their families - all because of the policies adopted by this Government. Do not take my word alone for all this. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  said that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and State Ministers for Agriculture were responsible for the present plight of rural industries. I hope that the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  reads the speech made some time ago by his colleague from Moore, because of all members of the Country Party the honourable member for Moore is most knowledgeable about wheat. He understands the subject. It was he who, when  chairman  of the Wheat Board, sold our first consignment of wheat to Red China. That sale saved the Country Party, notwithstanding that it did not like China's policies. 
The lady who led the march of the farmers in Western Australia said: 
We sell sheep for the price you pay for liver. We get 2c per lb. What do you pay? 
The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware of the concern of primary producers over the ban by the United States on mutton imported from Australia. Will he say what progress has been made towards having the ban lifted? 
Who said that? 
To demonstrate this point, I point out that the average price for wool in Australia in the year 1963-64 was 58.08c per lb realising a gross value for the clip of Sl,023m. In 1968-69 the price had fallen to 44.76c per lb, realising a gross value for the clip of S832m. So, we received on that occasion $200m less for our clip - for 200 million lb more wool. In the 1 1 months to the end of May 1970 the average price for the season was 38.32c per lb. The average price for the month of May 1969 was 41.09c per lb and the average price for May this year was 32.46c per lb. This demonstrates the price problem. It is the major problem confronting the industry. 
Let us look now at the cost side. Costs have affected all the major export industries. We find that costs rose during the 1959-64 period at a reasonable rate of 1.4% per annum. But from 1964 to 1968 costs rose at the rate of nearly 4% per annum. But because of the superphosphate bounty last year the increase in costs to the farming community dropped back to 1.9% per annum. But this does not help every wool grower because so many of our wool growers in the marginal areas and in the pastoral regions do not receive a benefit from the superphosphate bounty. 
This picture is an alarming one. I think that the downward price trend since 1963-64- a fall of 42.5% associated with costs having risen by 20% - really shows that the wool industry is in dire trouble. We are back to wool prices that arc lower than the prices in 1948-49. As the honourable member for Dawson so rightly said, the wool industry is an efficient industry. It is an unprotected industry. No other export industry in Australia has been put to the test of increasing its productivity as the wool industry has done. How long it can continue without assistance as an industry standing the strains of all sorts of policies that generate growth I do not know. 
The problem has been one not only of a price decline and an increase in costs. Since 1964-65, widespread drought has been experienced throughout Australia. This has led to a record indebtedness of wool growers. The net indebtedness to the major trading banks of farmers generally increased by 71% between 1964 and 1969, wool growers being responsible for nearly 50% of this increased indebtedness to the major trading banks. The net rural indebtedness to major institutional lenders increased from $195m to $l,037m, an increase of 600%, between 1963 and 1969. The gross indebtedness to all lending institutions of the farming community now amounts to $2,000m. Because of this situation, I find it hard to believe that a wool selling plan with a floor price operation being financed by the wool growers themselves as advocated by the honourable member for Dawson could be instituted. In this sort of situation, 1 do not know how our wool growers could rise to this sort of expenditure. 
These figures, as 1 said earlier, demonstrate the seriousness and the urgency of the problem facing wool growers, the Government, the economy and, in fact, the whole of Australia. No-one can deny that a great measure of credit is due to the wool industry for having earned $17,000m of foreign exchange since 1949, representing 40% of the total of Australia's export earnings since 1949. which has enabled remarkable growth and development to take place throughout Australia in the manufacturing sector as well as providing jobs and creating an affluence the country has not known before. Wool earnings have provided the foreign exchange which has been necessary to enable secondary industries to import the capital equipment needed to bring about this industrial growth. In spite of the large growth which is expected in our mineral earnings and in the earnings of our manufacturing industries, there will still be a great need for the continuance of a viable wool industry in the future to help maintain our balance of payments situation. Another consideration which has to be taken into account is the fact that vast areas of Australia are unsuited to any other form of rural production. The wool growers in the vast arid areas of western Queensland, western New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia do not have the potential to diversify into other forms of production. 
The wool industry is, as has been said, the largest single industry in Australia. It has an estimated capital investment of $8,000m, which equals 85% of the book value of the combined secondary industries in Australia. Perhaps the industry is too capital intensive, because the value of wool production represents only about 5% of all factory production. There are many aspects of the handling and marketing of the products which are antiquated and backward by modern standards. This Bill provides for a substantia] savings potential in this area of costs. 
Studies indicate that significant savings are possible in the handling and processing of wool for sale, by the construction of a national scale of fully integrated wool selling complexes such as the one which is being planned at Yennora. At present a bale of wool is handled on an average of 80 to 90 times from the time it leaves the property until the time it is loaded on a ship going overseas. This is not good enough in these days. I understand that a saving of about $4 on each bale of wool could be effected by adopting the modern handling techniques which will be provided under the terms of the Bill. This will represent a saving to the growers of approximately $20m, or more. Nearly all sections of the wool trade recognise the need for the establishment of wool selling centres with modern handling equipment for the joint use by brokers, providing for the speedy movement of wool into the complexes and out on to the ships in order to enable a cutting of costs. The complexes will provide the basis for core testing, the presampling and testing of wool or objective measurement and bulk classing and the selling of larger bulk lines. The Bill will also, as I said earlier, provide the necessary funds to enable the Australian Wool Board to build these complexes and lease them to the brokers. 
I support the moves for the establishment of a single selling authority with the necessary powers to administer the marketing and distribution of the entire Australian wool clip. At a mass meeting in Moree on 21st March of the wool growers of New South Wales, which has been the key State over the years so far as the wool marketing controversy is concerned, it was decided to recommend this system of selling to the various primary producer organisations in New South Wales. We have seen great progress in this regard since then. The Australian Wool Industry Conference has adopted this recommendation. I want to make one point clear: In the process of establishing a single selling authority, I would not like to see us cast aside the wool brokers who at the complexes must still act as agents on the growers' behalf. A very good relationship has existed between the brokers and growers over the years. Many brokers have had to assist wool growers financially through their periods of adver sity. I suggest that this authority must appoint a board of management consisting of the best business brains available, whether they be from this country or outside it. They need not necessarily be wool growers, but they must bc men whose business judgment and management have been proved. This board of management must be responsible for the day to day disposal of our wool clip. 
It is envisaged that some of our wool will be sold at auction, by negotiation, by tender or at quoted prices. Of course, I have heard it suggested within the circles of the industry organisation that those engaged in the wool industry support the principle, of supply management. But we would need to be careful that we do nol get caught holding back great reserves of wool in Australia and landing ourselves with a stockpiling problem which could have a depressing effect on world wool prices. The whole point is that we must ensure that the growers and the Government adopt the best policy in order to guarantee that the growers get a fairer price for their product. I am told that there is evidence to indicate that the spinners and manufacturers were prepared to pay as much this year as they did last year for wool, but the market fell from 47c to 32c. Yet the price of woollen fabrics and competitive synthetic fabrics has risen. So to me there appears to be no reason for this price drop for wool. We have heard all sorts of excuses for it, such as high overseas interest rates, exchange problems, etc. 
Why should our wool growers be subjected to the so-called free auction system, with no reserve and no protection? Why should they be exposed to every economic breeze and blast that blows from one part of the world or the other? Why should they be exposed to speculators, manipulators, pie buyers, and the countless number of middle men and hangers-on? I can assure honourable members that if this practice continues the Australian wool industry is doomed. We need a firm single seller, not 105,000 fragmented wool growers buckling under huge overdrafts and having to take for their wool what they are offered on their sale day. We must put wool growers into the position where they can in fact use their collective strength to negotiate low shipping freight rates and a higher price for their wool. I believe that if world trade wants wool it should be prepared to pay a price consistent with wool's quality and the present day prices of commodities, not the prices that prevailed in 1948-49. 
The next important feature of the Bill provides for an increased contribution for wool promotion and research. The Commonwealth's contribution will increase from SI 4m to an average of S27m, thus reducing the wool tax on the growers from 2% to I % of the gross proceeds of their clip. This will save growers SI. 20 per bale. The Minister in his second reading speech indicated that the Government quite rightly will have a greater say in the direction of the expenditure of funds. I believe that some consideration should be given to market research for our wool. I think the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  made the point that in the past we have spent a lot of money on research into putting more woo! on the sheep and producing more wool per acre, but very little money has been spent on research into getting the wool off the sheep in the most economical way and handling and disposing of the clip. 
In conclusion I commend the Bill. I believe this is further evidence of the Government's determination to help the industry and to work wilh the wool industry which has been divided far too long over loo many years, lt is a matter of relief for those grass roots members of the wool industry to find that their leaders are now coming together to try to work out a policy which will be to the general advantage of the wool grower. Since the industry is in this serious economic position it will be necessary for the Government and the industry to work with a sense of urgency to establish a statutory single marketing authority. Some immediate cash assistance or bridging finance will have to be extended to the wool industry to tide it over this difficult period. I think we have lo look at the possibility of assisting the industry with input subsidies such as assistance with freight and local government rating. Unless financial aid and extended loan arrangements are made to the wool growers of Australia I think there will be serious economic repercussions not only to the wool growers but to the country areas and to the nation as a whole. 1 support the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. Has his attention been directed to an article in the 3rd June issue of the Brisbane 'Courier Mail' which stated that the Catholic Archdiocese of Brisbane would have to raise a large sum of money, namely SI. 5m of an eventual $5m, which it states will be necessary to prevent the collapse of its school system? In view of the Government's support of the dual system of education and the strain that would be placed on government schools and teaching staff if the independent school system was to fail, will the Minister examine the position of both independent and government schools with the object of increasing Commonwealth assistance in areas of greatest need in our education system? 
Is the Treasurer aware that in Queensland, where the drought situation grows more desperate every day, businessmen in country towns are unable to obtain finance from trading banks to enable them to retain staff, particularly the experienced staff which will be essential when the drought breaks and business returns to normal? Can the Treasurer take such action as will enable the trading banks to allocate more funds for this category of businessmen who are suffering financial difficulty as a result of giving assistance to sorely pressed primary producers? 
Order! The honourable member for Corio is entitled to make his speech without interruption. 
The honourable member for Hume talks about the people extracting huge profits from rural industries and who have nothing to do with those industries. 1 remember many years ago in this place the former member for Lalor,  Mr Pollard,  raising similar matters relating to the wool industry. Because the profits were good and because those members supposedly representing wool growers in this place could not see past the ends of their noses, they laughed and guffawed. Now, the people in their electorates are paying the price of their ignorance. Recently, a delegation from the Philippines was here trying to buy Australian wheat. I would have thought that any Country Party member, and, most likely, any Government member would have wanted under almost any terms to sell Australian wheat within the terms of the agreements to which we are a party. But the Philippines delegates could not buy Australian wheat because we were not prepared to extend the terms to accommodate them. 
I wish to deal with other matters in the Budget andI wish to deal with the Budget. 
The Government is concerned, and justifiably concerned, with the unrest in our community. But 1 wish to suggest that it may be a good idea if, instead of running around yelling and screaming, someone had a real and an honest look at the causes of unrest in our society. 
The Government has granted, magnanimously I might suggest, in this Budget a reduction of 10% in income tax to persons with incomes under$1 0,000 per year. If this was an isolated economic act, one could well say that it was a welcome one and one long overdue. It is interesting to note that, even with the deductions granted, the Commonwealth's collections of income tax, pay-as-you-earn tax, this year will increase by $191m. So the Commonwealth has not reduced income tax, it has just reduced the increase in income tax. For a person whose income is the equivalent or approximately equivalent to that of an invalid pensioner with a wife and 4 dependant children, the increase in the cost structure which is caused through the increases in sales tax and other duties which the Government has introduced is $27.90 a year based on estimates of family spending. A person whose income approximates $1,500 a year will be required to pay some $27.90 additional income tax. If he is earning that amount, as opposed to being in receipt of a pension - if he is in receipt of a pension the only relief that he will receive is the 50c increase included in the Budget and therefore he will have a net loss of$1. 90 - he will have a saving in income tax of something less than$9 a year. In return for that, he will pay just on $28 a year in increased sales tax and other imposts - not a very good bargain and not one which would make any businessman rich. 
On the other hand a man on a salary of $32,000 a year with a wife and 3 dependent children will have a saving in income tax of slightly less than $500 a year. The computed increase in his costs caused by the alterations in sales tax and other taxes will be over $100 a year. It is evident, and typical of the Government's thinking, that those people least in need have been granted the greatest relief. We have heard talk about the 50c a week granted to pensioners. If the Government honestly believes that it is an act of political responsibility to reduce tax by 10% almost across the board, and to reduce income tax for persons earning up to $32,000 per year, while stating that it can afford to increase pensions by 50c a week only, I have grave doubts about its judgment of what is honest and what is dishonest. I think it is fair to say that age pensioners without dependants are not the only people about whom we should be concerned. We should have more concern for the people who have to survive on invalid pensions and who at the same time have to attempt to educate their children. For this they receive no assistance whatsoever. If it is considered that these families can exist or even subsist on an increase of 50c in their living allowance, I would like some honourable member on the Government side to stand up in this place and tell me the standard at which he expects such families to live. I would like to hear some honourable member tell me what goods these families should deprive themselves of in order to remain alive in this society, even if they do not participate in it. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said that people can avoid paying the increased sales tax and thereby gain the full benefit of the income tax reductions if they do not buy the goods which bear the increased sales tax. I suggest that the only person who could possibly gain the full benefit of (he reductions in income tax would be the non-smoking teetotaller, who neither washed nor shaved, whose wife never used cosmetics, who did not use motor drawn transport, who had neither a radio, a television receiver, record player or other form of entertainment regarded as a luxury, and who did not communicate by telephone, telegram or letter and who was celibate. That is the only type of person who could possibly gain the full benefit of the taxation reductions. Fancy anyone suggesting in any Parliament in Australia or in any modern parliament that people should avoid using such things as soap and razor blades. Fancy suggesting that women ought to regard cosmetics and toiletries as luxuries. Any such suggestion is. in my opinion, absolute rubbish. Cosmetics are as much a necessity to most women as are clothes. The fact is that these are not luxury items; they are items of daily necessity. These items were chosen by the Government for sales tax increases because the Government knows full well that these are items which the average person cannot do without and therefore the revenue it desires will be raised. If the Government had chosen items for sales tax increases which could easily be avoided by the people of Australia then its budgetary planning would have been thrown out of gear and the expected revenue would not of course, have been raised. 
Another matter which I wish to raise tonight is the Government's supposed concern for our ex-servicemen. Honourable members should have a look at the facts of this situation. The facts are set out in this Budget, lt states what the Government is doing for our ex-servicemen and their next of kin. Let us have a look at the general rate pension for our ex-servicemen. The rate prior to the Budget was $12 and now, after the Budget has been brought down, it is still $ 1 2. Before the Budget the allowance for a wife was $4.05 and it is still $4.05. The allowance before the Budget for each child was $1.38 and the allowance has remained at $1.38. Our war widows are in a very fortunate situation. They lost their husbands but the Government considers that an extra 50c a week is sufficient reward. Is this good solid support for the people whose husbands gave their lives for their country? Government supporters should stand up in this place and say how much they support our ex-servicemen. 
In the time that I have left in this debate 1 want to raise one or two other matters which are of serious concern to me and which will create and are creating serious problems within the community. I think it is reasonable to express concern about the state of our rural industries. However, 1 will leave this important subject to other honourable members who are more qualified in this field than 1 am. Tonight I want to express my concern for the industries which are dependent on the primary producer. I have done so throughout the period I have been a member of the Parliament. I refer to the agricultural implement makers especially. They are practically going out of business because of a lack of orders for equipment. This industry is important to the future of Australia. If rural industry is to recover it is absolutely necessary to have available to the people in rural industry the equipment which they need in order to function effectively. If the agricultural implement making companies are allowed to lag behind, get out of date and become uneconomic, the recovery of the rural industries will be much more difficult in the future. The economic capacity of these industries may degenerate to the extent that they may not be able to recover. 
I wish to deal with another matter which is of serious consequence to the community. Because of the increased efficiency of medical treatment, most people have a much better life expectancy. The fact that we have more people dependent on a pension makes this a pressing and urgent problem. Because people are today living much longer than people did many years ago there is an ever growing need to establish nursing homes to care for aged persons. As a society we have not degenerated mentally to the stage where we are prepared to practise euthanasia and we therefore have a moral responsibility to provide facilities where our aged persons can have, in the twilight of their lives, decent surroundings and comforts without any anxiety about their ability to pay for convalescence or hospitalisation in the final years of their lives. Both government and non-government institutions are doing a good job in caring for aged persons but the capacities of these institutions are very limited. 
In my own electorate there is the Grace McKellar House which is an extremely good home for aged persons. It has accommodation for about 200 persons and there are on the waiting list at present about 1,000 names. Throughout Australia numerous private nursing homes have been established, mainly in large houses which have become uneconomic and for this reason have been converted into nursing homes. The cost of operating these small units is such that the prices charged are beyond the reach of most elderly people. Even people who retired with a reasonable amount of money behind them have found that it has dissipated very quickly once they have had to start paying regularly in order to obtain a bed. It is also true to say that most of the wage and salary earners in up to what I would have to call the lower middle income group, having regard to what the Treasurer regards as the middle income group, are not financially able to meet the differential cost of keeping their parents. In lots of cases there are no next of kin and the problem is even greater as the persons who operate nursing homes cannot afford to keep charity patients because of their cost structure. 
However, if they do accept charity patients they have to increase the amount they charge those patients who are able to pay their own way or who have someone who would pay for them. Because of the cost factor, many patients are deprived of the level of care which they desperately need. 
I am not trying to make political capital out of this matter. I appreciate that the Government did introduce a scheme whereby between $2 and $5 a week will be paid to assist those persons who are, to all intents and purposes, bedridden and in need of intensive nursing care. But this is a very serious problem. It is a problem which is growing with the increase in the longevity of our population. It is a problem which will have to be tackled at a Commonwealth level because the State governments do not have the finance to tackle it nor are they saying at this stage that they have a wish to do so. I think the Commonwealth Government has some responsibility in this field. I believe it has a moral obligation to do something. I believe that the wherewithal must be provided which will enable everybody to obtain the nursing home care they require. This is a very serious problem in our community. It is not a problem which will be easy to solve, but it is one which must be solved in the name of humanity and it must be solved quickly because costs are increasing and the ability of families to pay is decreasing. 
The final matter with which I wish to deal specifically is the reduced amount of income available to most family men. The Government seems to think that wage and salary earners could stop asking for wage and salary increases tomorrow with impunity. The fact of the matter is that even if there had not been an increase in prices last year there would have still been a serious reduction in the purchasing power of wage and salary earners. For example, the increase in interest rates two or three months ago has meant to a person buying a house through a co-operative housing society a direct increase in repayments in excess of $1 a week on most loans around the $8,000 mark. The increase in interest rates has meant a dead loss of $1 a week to them. This money has been removed from the pockets of home purchasers as ruthlessly and effectively as if taxation had been increased. No benefit has accrued to home purchasers as a result of the expenditure of this additional money. The Government seems to think that wage and salary earners should be benevolent about losing this amount of money and say: 'It is bad luck. We will have to cut back our spending by Si a week.' Most wage and salary earners are not that fortunate. They cannot cut back their spending by  $1  a week, because they have commitments to meet. Their commitments include the education of their children, looking after the health and welfare of their families, paying off their homes and providing their families with what most Australians would consider to be the standard of living to which they are entitled. Wage and salary earners have commitments to meet which cannot be reduced by, say,  $1  a week. 
An increase in interest rates is not the only thing which has affected wage and salary earners in recent times. There has also been a compulsory increase in payments to medical and hospital benefit funds. This money has been taken directly out of the pockets or pay envelopes of most people by the Government. It is all right to say that the wage and salary earners should not be asking for wage and salary increases and it is fair to say that they gain very little from them, but it is impossible for these people who are having their incomes eroded and money taken out of their pay envelopes by direct Government action to say that they can afford not to ask for increased wages and salaries. If the Government genuinely wishes to reduce the level of unrest which exists in our community and genuinely wishes to earn the respect of the people of Australia it should cease immediately its politicking with their feelings and try to determine the real cause of the unrest, seek solutions where they are able to be sought and come into this Parliament and tell the nation that it is tackling the problems of the nation in a responsible manner and a manner which is befitting of a government in a democratic country. 
No doubt the AttorneyGeneral will be aware of the Queensland Government's desire to establish a rural reconstruction board in that State. Has he considered the request made to him recently for an amendment of the Bankruptcy Act to enable the proposed board to operate effectively? In view of the desperate drought situation in Queensland will he treat this matter as being of the utmost urgency? 
 I wish to make a few comments on some of the matters that have been spoken of in this debate. 1 refer first to the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  when he led for the Opposition at the commencement of the Budget debate.  His  contribution was well taken care of by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who really put it on the line. I do not intend to reiterate the matters about which he spoke. I wish to add one reference to that speech. I refer to the blithe way in which the Leader of the Opposition wrote off Australian rural industry. He made but a very brief reference to rural industry, although, he did mention that the wool industry was still one of the most important industries in the Commonwealth. While admitting the great need for and value of this industry, the Leader of the Opposition was prepared almost to ignore it completely. One honourable member suggested that the Leader of the Opposition spent about 30 seconds in a speech of 65 minutes on that subject. I know that the honourable gentleman made the very briefest of references to that subject. This indicates in no uncertain fashion that the Labor Party has no real interest in the rural affairs of the Commonwealth. It is completely dominated by its desire to promote the urban interests. This fact was clearly shown in the speech made by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  He did not argue about assistance for rural industry, but he concentrated on the need for more benefit for urban interests. 
 There are some cows 1 would like to concentrate on a bit more. I hope to do so at some other time. The interests of rural industry as against urban interests have to be looked at in their proper light. Many people are spokesmen for urban interests and are pressing constantly for further benefits for urban interests. If honourable members opposite think that urban interests have been neglected. I. would like them to have a look at what happened in the recent distribution of the increased finance provided under the Commonwealth aid roads legislation. 1 would like the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who interjected earlier, to look at where the greater part of that increase went. Urban areas have not been neglected by this Government. 
There is a tremendous need for more consideration to be given to rural industry. Rural industry is going through the kind of period that it has been through before. Perhaps those periods were not quite as bad as this one: perhaps they were as bad. Conditions in rural industry will improve. Rural industry will revive. The wheat industry already is showing signs of reviving on the world market. On past history, we can expect an improvement. Australian rural industry is so vitally important to the Commonwealth and, consequently, to every citizen of the Commonwealth that it behoves the Government at this stags to give full consideration to its needs. 
I emphasise that this Budget has been brought down at a time of great disparity between the levels of prosperity in various sections of our community. I refer to primary industry and those who are dependent upon primary industry on the one hand, and to secondary industry including the mining industry, and indeed the community generally, on the other hand. It is against this background that the Budget for 1970-71 has been introduced. I do not suppose that anyone would question the degree of national prosperity that is being enjoyed by Australia as a nation. But let me quote a few figures to demonstrate that what I have said is so. I will deal with the Australian gross national product. In 1965-66 the gross national product stood at $20,777m. In the financial year 1969-70 it had risen to $30, 162m. Perhaps this information would be more easily absorbed if I were to give the House the percentage increases over the financial years since 1965- 66. In 1965-66 the increase in the gross national product was 4.9%; in 1966- 67 it was 9.7%: in 1967-68 it was 6.7%; it stood at 12.3% in 1968-69; and in 1969-70 it was 10.6%. These increases have taken place in spite of some of the greatest depression years in the history of primary industry, upon which previously Australia was almost totally dependent for its prosperity. So the national prosperity must be regarded as being beyond all question. I have plenty of figures to substantiate that statement.I have in my hand a series of figures which show the unemployment position in Australia. The number of vacancies registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service increased from 29,335 as at June 1967 to 39,865 in June 1970. One could continue using such figures to show that the urban areas about which the honourable member for Perth was so concerned are prospering and thriving. Yet the honourable member wishes to do more and more for those areas to the detriment of great rural areas which are suffering their hour of greatest need. 
This high degree of prosperity that 1 have justified very briefly is accompanied, as a high degree of prosperity usually is, by a very real danger of inflation. Inflation menaces the welfare of every Australian citizen. The Government, as an honest government, was conscious of this in framing its Budget. It is determined to control inflation as far as it is possible, as far as it is practicable, and as far as it is reasonable to do so. At the same time, the Government is conscious of the need to maintain a satisfactory rate of national growth. It has achieved this. The attitude of the Government is reflected in the balanced Budget that it has introduced. A government of lesser calibre certainly would have succumbed to the temptation to bring down a more popular but a more inflationary Budget to the ultimate detriment of the Australian people. This Government stood up to its responsibilities as an honest and responsible government and has balanced the Budget in this a Senate election year. 
One of the outstanding features of this Budget is the honouring by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  of his election promise to reduce taxation for the lower and middle income groups. A lot of criticism has come from the other side of the House about where this money has gone. Some have said that the amount of the reduction could have been distributed in a different way. Speaking from memory, a 10% reduction is to be granted on all incomes up to $10,000 per year. This is a pretty satisfactory proposal. The higher one goes in the taxation scale the fewer taxpayers one finds. I point out that the Prime Minister promised to reduce income tax by $200m this year. The value of the reductions in a full year will be $289m. I daresay that $89m of that sum would represent a good deal of the taxation which is phased out. Phasing out is an accepted feature of taxation. Taxation has been phased out even if it is being phased out at levels higher than some of my friends opposite would like it to be. 
The criticism from the Opposition on this subject has been pretty constant throughout this debate. I repeat that I have received letters from unions and individuals urging the Prime Minister to implement his income tax proposal this year. It has been implemented in this Budget. What reward did the Government receive for its action? That reward took the form of the first political strike in the history of this nation - a forerunner of things to come. If a government honours its promises and satisfies the demands that are made upon it and then it runs into a political strike, I am moved to ask: What sort of a position will we get into if we ever have the disadvantage or the disaster of a government which panders to these people? If we had, for example, a Hawke dominated Labor government in this country, what sort of political position would we be in? What sort of encouragement is given to those people who engage in this type of political blackmail? There is a lot more that I could say on this subject but I have not sufficient time in this debate. 
I stress again the inflation which could have resulted if the type of budget which the Opposition recommended had been brought down. Such a budget would have reacted more savagely against the people whom that Party purports to represent - the worker, the family man and the low income earner. The type of budget that the Labor Party wanted to introduce would certainly have reacted against that section of the community, lt is this section of the community that this balanced Budget is particularly designed to protect. I shudder to think what would have happened to the low income group if a Labor budget had been brought down and the type of policy about which honourable members on the Opposition side have spoken in this debate had been implemented. 
I want to talk again about rural industry. I cannot do so without referring to the gratuitous insult conferred upon the rural community by the meagre mention of the rural industry in the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition. I can understand his dilemma. The Labor Party does not have a rural policy and therefore it has nothing much to talk about. There are notable differences in the approaches to the rural industry by honourable members on the Opposition side, lt is almost impossible to credit. Honourable members opposite show a divergence of attitude unparalleled in Australia's political history by a major political party on a subject of great national importance. If one examines the statements that have been made by members of the Labor Party one finds that this is so. To take an example, we have heard advocated from members on the Opposition side of the House a payment of SI. 10 for every bushel of wheat produced in Australia last year. 1 ask the Opposition whether it is prepared to support that proposal. 1 ask the shadow Minister for Primary Industry - and I challenge him to give me his reply in this debate whether he supports that proposition which has constantly been repeated by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  If the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  does not support such a proposition then this will prove what I have said. However, if he does support it it will be the first time that I have heard him say so. 
The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  has a right to speak for himself. I do not have sufficient time to speak for everybody. In contrast the Government's sympathetic attitude to rural industry is emphasised by. among many other features, the provision for rural industry in this Budget which is an increase of more than 55% on last year's figure. In other words it has been increased from $77m to $2 15m. Despite this understanding of rural needs one of the most important features of the Budget is the decision to examine ways in which the restructuring of farmers' debts can most effectively be implemented. This is a vital part of the Budget although it has not been given the attention it deserves. This will be extremely important in the future for our rural industries. 
Direct assistance to the wool industry will amount to $62m, of which S30m is to be used to assist those in greatest need. This is a principle that is prominent in the Budget. Under the terms of the stabilisation plan the wheat industry will receive S30m. There are those who scoff at stabilisation, orderly marketing and the quota system which is designed by the wheat growers themselves through their own organisation to support their objectives. In concluding my remarks on the rural section I point out that the essential difference between the Government's policy and the Opposition's policy is that the Government endeavours to implement the policy of the primary producers expressed through their elected representatives, while the Opposition in a blatant vote catching exercise supports generally the dissentient minority without regard to the welfare of the industry and those engaged in it. That is the real difference between the Government's attitude and the Opposition's attitude to primary industry. 
I realise that the difficulties of primary industry are great and that what has been done is no more than is needed. At least it is a step in the right direction. It is of the utmost importance to farmers that every effort be made to control cost of production, so it is pleasing that agricultural distillate has been exempted from the increase in excise on fuel. I want to refer to a journal which cannot be called 'a primary producer organisation' publication. We are often accused of being one-eyed. The August 1970 journal of the 'Australian Industries Development Association', under the heading 'Policy-making for Primary Industry', states: 
Continuous consultation between the Government and primary industry is the basis of policymaking for that sector of the economy - a policymaking machinery that is regarded with envy by other sectors. 
This surely cannot be called a primary producer organisation. Surely this is an impartial judgment on the manner in which the Government has approached policy making for primary industry. The article goes on to state: 
The Minister for Primary Industry showed how well developed this policy-making machinery is when he addressed the New South Wales Annual Conference of the Country Party at Griffith on 24th June. 
In the bulletin there are a number of extracts from the speech of the Minister for Primary Industry. I will read a couple of them for the benefit of those who do not hear this type of thing often enough. They read: 
Now, in. all this interchange of ideals, the private talks, the discussions behind the scenes, there must be, and there is, a lot of development and polishing of policy ideas. We do it this way because our aim is that, say in my own case, when a firm proposal is officially put before me, I can take it to the Government knowing that it is a sound, practical policy; it has the support of the industry; it has my support, based on my own knowledge and opinion and the expert advice of my officers, and that it is likely to be acceptable to the Government. To me, this approach makes sense. 
This is how the policy-making system for the rural industries works at the moment. And I do not need to go back over many years to demonstrate just how effectively it has worked. 
I hope that those comments will not be condemned as being inspired by self-interest or self-benefit. 
One of the great benefits contained in this Budget relates to the provision of telephone lines for rural dwellers. It would not be possible for me to over-emphasise the vital necessity and the value of this change of policy to the rural dwellers. The need to upgrade the standards of telephone lines to allow automatic telephone exchanges to operate efficiently was undoubted and was never questioned by the Australian Country Party, which argued constantly that the cost involved was beyond the financial capacity of many rural dwellers. The Government listened to the arguments so constantly put to it, with the result that no-one in the rural areas will be unable to have a telephone installed on a property. If there had not been a change in policy many of these people would not have been able to afford the huge expense involved. 
The Postmaster-General's Department will provide IS miles of telephone line free of cost to these people. This is only right because the urban dwellers that we hear so much about have always had this free of cost. After the first 15 miles the rate to be charged is $40 per quarter mile. The Department will maintain the facilities. I have received many letters which show that thousands of dollars are involved in telephone installations. I know of a person who suffered a stroke and had to have a telephone for which he had to find $1,300. As this provision is retrospective to January 1969 this deserving person will receive a refund. This is something which shows that the Government appreciates the problems which confront those living in rural areas. 
There has been some discussion about the increase in the age pension. I can honestly say that I join with those people who believe that the situation would have been much better if there had been a greater increase. Pensioners have a problem to make ends meet. I would have liked to see them get something more than they are getting out of the Budget. However, I appreciate that the Government was faced with the problem of trying to balance the Budget in the interests of the community generally as well as in the interests of pensioners. I believe that the Government would have had a problem coping with the difficulties which it faced. Despite the fact that I recognise that the Government was faced with certain problems, I believe that a larger increase in the age pension would have been better received by the majority of the people of Australia. I believe that the Government would have liked to grant a larger increase. I also believe that the situation will be rectified as time goes on. 
Despite the fact that I was disappointed about the increase in the age pension, 1 wish to commend the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  for providing some of the assistance which has been given this year to people who have been in great need of it. This is something which has been forgotten during the course of the debate on the Budget. I refer in particular to the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill. The Minister for Social Services is always endeavouring to assist those people who are in need of assistance. For my part, I will always support moves to help the people who are in need of assistance, including pensioners. 
Another matter in the field of social services to which I wish to refer is the effort which is being made by the Queensland Grain Growers Association to have social service benefits applied to needy farmers and others who have suffered severely as a result of the drought. Many of these people have very little equity in their properties as a result of the drought. It is hard to determine the value of their properties because there is no defined level of values, but there is not a great deal of value left in their properties. These people are unable to get assistance in the form of social services because they are to some extent tied to their properties. I believe that the proposal of the Queensland Grain Growers Association should be given serious consideration. Assistance should be given to these people because it is desirable to keep them on the land. Not many people want to go on to the land, lt is necessary to keep on the land those people who are there at present. 
The drought relief which has been given to Queensland by the Commonwealth Government has been very much appreciated. I do not have the time to go into it fully, but it is something which has been very necessary. Queenslanders appreciate what has been done for them. I wish to refer also to the relief in the form of a reduction in rates which has been provided to land holders in badly drought stricken areas. People who have been drought stricken for 2 of the last 5 years, who are drought stricken at present and who are demonstrably in need of such assistance are eligible for a reduction of 50% in their rates. The assistance which is provided by the Commonwealth Government in this respect is of twofold benefit, lt provides much needed assistance to those land owners who need it and at the same time enables the shire councils to collect much more in rates than they would otherwise have been able to collect and thereby keep their employees. I -have received many requests in recent times - in fact, I received one only today - for a more equitable means of raising finance for local government. I was impressed by the scheme which is in operation in New South Wales. I trust that the other States will give consideration to an examination of this matter so that a scheme can be evolved which is acceptable to all States. If such a scheme were evolved I would certainly urge Commonwealth assistance at, say, a $1 for $1 basis, which would be a great help to the local authorities. I am sure the Government would be sympathetic to this. 
There are many aspects of the Budget which I have not dealt with. Education is one area in which great strides have been made. No less than 61,000 students are now in receipt of Commonwealth scholarships. Many other aspects of the field of education have been assisted by the Commonwealth Government. The debts of the States will be reduced as a result of the assistance provided by the Budget. Substantial relief has been given in regard to the payment of interest. Water conservation projects will be undertaken with Commonwealth assistance. Water conservation is of vital importance to rural industries. I look forward to a decision by the Government to proceed with the Pike Creek scheme, which will serve not only the farmers of the area but also the town dwellers of Goondiwindi as it will make their water supply more secure. 
In conclusion, I wish to say that this is an honest Budget. There are one or two things which I would have liked to see changed. I suppose this is the same with everybody. I have already mentioned that one of the things I would have liked to see is a greater increase in the age pension. The other thing with which I disagree is the increased tax on petrol. I believe that this tax could have been changed to greater advantage. However, all in all it is an honest Budget and one which is designed to keep the economy of the country on a sound footing. I support the motion and oppose the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I trust that the Government will be given every opportunity to carry on in the future in the interests of the people of Australia in the same way as it has done so effectively over so many years. Australia is one of the most envied nations in the world today. [Quorum formed.] 
I wish to inform the House of the following appointments of senators and members to be members of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation:  Senator Maunsell  has been appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Devitt  has been appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and  Senator Byrne  has been appointed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in that House;  Mr Jess, Mr Hamer  and  Mr Bonnett  have been appointed by the Prime Minister and  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Crean  have been appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in this House. The Prime Minister has appointed  Mr Jess  to be  Chairman  of the Committee. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a move by the Queensland Trades and Labour Council, as reported by the Australian Broadcasting Commission this morning, to have Mount Isa Mines Ltd nationalised? in view of the damaging effect that such a move could have on investment in Australian compan'e.s from both outside and inside Australia to the detriment of all Australian citizens, will the Prime Minister take all practical measures deemed advisable or necessary to ensure that investors know that they need have no fear that such a move could be successful under the present Government? Will he at the same time draw attention to the great benefits conferred on the people of Mount Isa by Mount Isa Mines Ltd? 
1 will refer, first of all, to the first of this group of Bills, the Urea Bounty Bill. It is, of course, a holding operation because of the fact that the Tariff Board's report was not received until fairly recently. Time is required to study that report. In the mean time, the bounty will expire unless action is taken to extend it. 1 would like to point out a few factors in connection with this. The Tariff Board report on industrial chemicals and synthetic resins, dated 13th April 1966, recommended - and the Government adopted - bounties on urea and sulphate of ammonia. The bounty on urea was $16 a ton and the bounty on sulphate of ammonia was $8 a ton. It is also interesting to note that in  1966  the production of sulphate of ammonia was about 125,000 tons while the production of urea was about 30,000 tons. The bounties were paid to assist the Australian producers to compete with imports, that is, to compensate local producers for cost disadvantages compared with overseas suppliers. 
Assistance was given by way of bounty instead of by duty, because assistance by duty would have raised the farmers' costs. lt was envisaged that local producers would compete on price with fertilisers imported from other countries. In 1966 the quantity of urea produced was insufficient to supply the Australian demand, and in both 1967-68 and 1968-69 imports of urea exceeded 100,000 tons, which is a considerable amount of urea to be imported. On 31st December 1968 the Tariff Board was asked to review the bounties on urea and sulphate of ammonia in the course of a review of a large sector of the chemical industry. No doubt this was one of the reasons why it took some time to bring down this report. The Board's report on nitrogenous fertilisers was not received, as I said, until fairly recently and the present report is intended to continue bounty payments until the Government considers and takes action on the report of the Tariff Board. 
I think it is only reasonable that we should agree to the proposition that was put up and that is that these Bills be accepted and the bounty allowed to continue. Urea and fertiliser generally play a prominent part in our agricultural production. One point I would particularly like to make is that very often when we hear of the Government giving assistance to fertiliser production it is criticised because people say the financial assistance it is giving will lead to increased production of some products which will in any case be difficult to sell. The point I want to make is one that is not as generally recognised as it should be and one that I think the general public is quite often very ignorant of and that is the reduction in the cost of production that fertiliser can bring about. It does not necessarily mean that because one uses fertiliser that one has to produce more. It does mean that if it is working effectively one produces more per acre. It is a matter of whether it is necessary to apply quantitative restrictions on the produce that is being placed on the available markets. But it is necessary to use fertiliser so that the cost of production will be reduced over the quantity of goods that is being produced. 
This bounty too is a bounty to the manufacturer and again I would like to draw attention to the fact that every time a bounty is mentioned in this field the impression is gained that it goes to the primary producer. I have heard this suggestion made in discussions here about things which are provided for the benefit of the primary producers. In this case it is provided for the benefit of the manufacturer and, of course, being in the way of a bounty it does not increase the price, as a duty would. I would like to refer to a new large scale manufacturer, Austral Pacific Fertilisers Limited of Brisbane, which commenced operations last year. I believe it is making a very valuable contribution to our national economy. One of the reasons for this is that it is of world size and because of economies of scale its size should be an advantage. It produces urea and ammonia and its capacity is equivalent to 157,000 tons of nitrogen per annum, or, expressed in tons of urea, about 340,000 tons per annum. 
Consequent upon Austral Pacific entering urea manufacture Australian demand can now be met by local production. Just a little while ago I mentioned the importation into Australia of 100,000 tons of urea. There is another factor which is perhaps worth mentioning in relation to this and that is that this factory is a user of natural gas. So not only do we get the benefit of using natural gas in this factory but, because it is a major user, it may even have made it economic to pipe the natural gas from the Roma field down to Brisbane with all the benefits that that brings. So it had a collateral benefit. The assistance to the manufacturer in this way has had reper cussions which go beyond the immediate benefits that are derived from it. I just mentioned that in passing. As the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  made some reference to his pride in the operations in Tasmania, so I feel that we in Queensland can get a great deal of satisfaction from this standard of production - something of world size which we feel will be of real benefit to the nation and to the primary producer. Since the factory came into operation only late last year it is reasonable to assume that there could be problems in getting to full efficiency in production. I do not know that there will be, but it is possible. Certainly the factory will have all the advantages to enable it to produce this fertiliser in competition with other countries and it at least has the advantage of economy of scale. 
The price of urea has caused some concern to farmers in my area and it is interesting to note the variations in prices. I have heard criticisms of what has happened to prices when bounties are paid and for that reason I think it is worth noting the trend of prices in my own State of Queensland. I go back to 1st July 1966 when urea was $122 a ton. On 1st October 1966 it was reduced to $85.20 a ton after the introduction of a subsidy and it remained at that price until 1st July 1968. On 1st July 1970 it was $79 a ton. That is a very considerable reduction and it is a continuing one. I think I should point out, however, that there was a further drop in 1969. On 1st April 1969 it dropped to $69.20 a ton and has risen now to $79 a ton. But if one goes back along this line of figures it is rather hard to argue, as it has been sometimes, that this fertiliser bounty has not been of great benefit to the industry. Nitrogen is, of course, a most essential element for plant growth. With the exception of legumes all plants obtain their requirements of nitrogen from the soil. But most soils are naturally deficient in nitrogen and additional quantities need to be added to improve productivity. It is this productivity that we want to keep in mind. When we are talking about the use of fertilisers, we want to look at the cost of production. It is very important to us. 
It is interesting to note a passage from the second reading speech of the then Minister for Primary Industry when he introduced the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Bill in  1966.  He said: 
The price of nitrogenous fertilisers is  very  much higher in Australia than in countries where large volume production has resulted in the availability of low-cost nitrogen to farmers. 
That accords with the remarks I made previously in connection with production in Australia on a large scale basis. It is interesting to note too that nitrogenous fertiliser has gained worthwhile responses from pastures under a wide range of conditions. This is an added value. Sometimes we relate it only to agriculture. That applies in my own area in northern Queensland but its use probably is more important with the clover grass pastures of which we do not have so much in my area. I mentioned the importation of nitrogen and the saving that the production of urea in Australia will mean. The balance between our exports and imports will be affected materially. The effect will be a beneficial one. The sugar industry is one of the big users of fertiliser in my State and one of the greatest industries that have been dependent on it. 
I trust that these Bills will meet with the approval of the House. I am sure that they will. The Government must give very full consideration to every aspect of the bounty and subsidy on fertilisers at this time. Our great primary producing industries need all the assistance that can be given to them. They have played a very important part in our national economy and in the progress and development of Australia as a nation. This factor has often been lost sight of. I hope that very sympathetic consideration will be given to the needs of primary industry, particularly in the matter of bounties for the manufacture of fertiliser and the subsidy for fertilisers generally. 
Is the PostmasterGeneral aware of the great satisfaction with his and the Government's decision to alter conditions concerning the construction and maintenance of telephone lines in rural areas? Is he aware that this wise decision will result in many delayed applications for telephone connections being brought forward and that this in turn will place a  great strain on departmental resources? In view of this will the Postmaster-General investigate the feasibility of offering contracts to primary producers to undertake construction work under departmental supervision to ease this strain and to provide much needed employment for primary producers in their own areas? 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House of the present position regarding the request made by the Queensland Government for finance for the Rural Reconstruction Board which that Government proposes to set up to deal with the pressing financial problems of primary producers in that State? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of . Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. The honourable gentleman has stated that it was his intention to introduce legislation to amend the Bankruptcy Act. Is he aware that the Queensland Government has decided to set up a rural reconstruction board in that State to deal with the urgent financial problems faced by many primary producers? Because the amendment of the Bankruptcy Act is necessary to allow this Board to operate effectively. Can the Minister give an assurance that the legislation will be introduced during this session of the Parliament? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not want to delay the House for too long, but I am moved to speak on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill for a number of reasons. First of all, I have in my electorate a number of Aboriginal people with whom I have been in fairly close contact. Secondly, I believe that there has been a good deal of damaging criticism of what is being done to help Aboriginals and very little appreciation of the value of the work that is being done. No-one would deny that much more has to be done. But anyone who has worked among these people, in my area at any rate, will realise the great strides that have been made. I pay a tribute to the people who have been associated with this work. 
I know that the Queensland Minister who is responsible for Aboriginal affairs, the  Hon.  N. T. E. Hewitt, is very much concerned about this matter. He has discussed with me the way in which the State and the Commonwealth could best cooperate to the advantage of these people. At the moment he is waiting for me to make some arrangement whereby we can visit some of the areas and discuss with the Aboriginal people themselves some of the problems which they face. I pay a tribute to the local welfare committees in these areas. The people on these committees have devoted themselves unselfishly to Improving the conditions under which Aboriginals live. 
We realise that there is a need to provide housing for Aboriginals, and this Bill does move in that direction. It is easy to say that we are not going far enough or fast enough. It would not matter at what rate we went; the Opposition still would say that we were not doing enough. It would not matter how much . money was being spent; the Opposition would want more money spent. However, this Bill introduces measures which will be of very great benefit to Aboriginal people. They will help the progress and development of Aboriginal people; they will help also in providing housing and Aboriginal welfare. 
I point out to those who say that not enough is being done - I agree that not enough is being done - that there are many fields in which the finance which is available to the Government does not allow enough to be done. But the States have some responsibility in this field, and the money provided under this Bill will be added to that which the States are providing for this work. Money alone will not solve the problems facing Aboriginals. In addition to the need for finance, an educational system is required. I have met and talked with liaison officers, and I know the problems which they face. Those who understand this matter know how difficult a problem this is. 
I find that some of these Aboriginal people are ready and prepared to accept responsibilities if they come to live within a certain community. But others have told me that at this stage they are not ready or prepared to accept those responsibilities. So they will have to be trained or educated to accept, these responsibilities, to understand what is required of them if they are to succeed. I want to point to another field in which achievements have been made. I refer to some of the settlements on the outskirts of some of the towns which in the last year or two have disappeared completely as a result of work done by the State and Federal governments in cooperation with the local authorities in these areas. Those people who have moved out of those fringe areas and shanty dwellings are now a credit to the town itself and they have good jobs. This has been done because they have been encouraged to do it. Some have not been happy about it. Some of the shanties have been bulldozed by local authorites who have come in for any amount of criticism for doing it even though they have provided dwellings because some of the people have come back and found there were no more shanties and they were disappointed about it. It is a very difficult problem and it is one that is not easily handled. The person who knows the most about it and who has been mixed up with it most will find it is very real. 
I pay tribute to those people who have spoken on this matter and who have the problem at heart and are trying to do something about it. But there is no one in this House who is more dedicated to this work than the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  He has been criticised because he has not done everything. He has taken a tremendous interest in this problem and he has a great knowledge of the subject. He has instigated moves which are proving of benefit to our Aboriginal population and he will continue to do that. I could mention the director for Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland,  Mr Pat  Kiloran with whom I have discussed this problem on a number of occasions. While I say the problem is there and it has to be resolved and work has to be done, it is not something that can be solved overnight. It is not something that can be done with money alone. The measures that will have to be used will require people who are endeavouring to encourage our Aboriginals to lift their standard of living and will require people who have a specialised knowledge of this subject. Such people are not easy to find. Liaison officers are already doing a very good job in this field and they deserve all the encouragement they can get. What I look forward to is the close co-operation of the 3 arms of government - Federal, State and local - in this field. I know when we are tackling a problem of this kind we find very many difficulties. I have paid plenty of tributes tonight because 1 believe there has been too much criticism and breaking down of the efforts that are being made. 
I would like to talk about the local tribal council at Cunnamulla where a lot of criticism has been levelled about what has happened. There is a local tribal council there which has people handling particular aspects. There is a finance coordinator, someone specially allotted to deal with housing, someone for education, someone for health, someone for legal aid and someone for employment. This is their own tribal council and is the sort of thing that will do a lot of good. This can be advanced into our Aboriginal population - I feel it cannot go very quickly but still it is going - and these people deserve a pat on the back for the efforts they along with the welfare committees in these places are making. 
There was some talk of employment. Let me pay a tribute to the Parroo Shire Council at Cunnamulla which proportionately employs a high percentage of Aboriginals in its work force. It has suffered a lot of criticism but at the same time it is trying to do what it can, and most people engaged in this work are. I accept the fact that not enough is being done but do not decry the work that is being done because great strides have been made. I pay tribute to the Minister and the Government for what they are trying to do. I trust this will be encouraged by close co-operation, by recognition of the progress that is being made and by trying to improve, on that progress to develop those factors which are providing so much benefit to the Aboriginal population throughout Australia. 
Few  matters are more important to this great Commonwealth of ours than the conservation of water and its effective use. This Bill is to grant financial assistance to the States in connection with the measurement and investigation of their water resources. The Australian Water Resources Council has performed and is performing very essential work. The importance and value of water conservation has been proved time and time again. No irrigation project which has been implemented could be regarded as anything other than of very real advantage to Australia and of particular importance to the decentralisation of national development. Water is the fundamental basis of decentralisation and is also most essential in the utilisation of land. 
It is true that a cost benefit analysis is made to evaluate the real value of a water supply or irrigation scheme. A lot of discussion has arisen around these cost benefit analyses. I believe it is essential that a cost benefit analysis should be undertaken, but I wonder whether it takes into account the supplementary value of an irrigation scheme. I deprecate the type of investigation which omits to take into account so many of those important supplementary benefits. When large irrigation development takes place it brings with it increased population. I wonder whether a cost benefit analysis takes into consideration the full value of such an increase in population when it is of such advantage nationally. I wonder whether this is given its rightful place in the assessment of the real worth of an irrigation scheme. I give an example of what has been achieved in this way. I have heard discussions and debates about the value of the St George irrigation scheme in my own electorate. The scheme was debated and argued very considerably. St George is one of the few towns that has developed and grown in population and that has security as a result of this irrigation scheme. From the experience gained since the scheme was implemented the State Government has decided to duplicate the scheme by putting in another dam. So the value of this scheme has been proved and its benefits have been realised. I wonder whether a few other factors are taken into account in the evaluation of an irrigation scheme. In some inland areas the adoption of irrigation schemes has proved of tremendous value in having fodder much closer for the benefit of drought affected stock. I question very much whether this factor is fully appreciated in this very dry continent. 
I move towards some of the proposals. One in particular is the proposed dam at Pikes Creek in southern Queensland. This has been subject to investigation by the States of New South Wales and Queensland and has recently undergone another cost benefit analysis by the Commonwealth Government. I believe, on the basis of what I have already said, that it would be detrimental to our national progress and development if this scheme were not proceeded with. Whilst the measuring of our water resources has reached a greater degree of efficiency than it had attained in the past, I still believe that this type of proposal will prove its worth as other irrigation schemes have done. The cost of Ais dam will be borne by 3 governments, so the cost to be met by any one government is reduced. This makes its value to the community so much more than if the costs were not spread to that degree. 
The investigation and measurement of water resources is something that I hope will be continued. As I have previously mentioned, water conservation in this dry continent is most necessary. More and more water will be needed in the future to supply the domestic requirements of our towns. I refer to the great value to Bundaberg of the irrigation scheme that is proposed in that area. In fact, I doubt whether Bundaberg could develop without such a scheme. One factor in relation to these measurements is that the quantity of water that is available to the dam must be considered not only in relation to the size of the dam but also in respect of catchments. In the areas to which I have been referring the rivers rise in the higher rainfall areas and flow through the less favoured rainfall areas. The water measurement will he of value in assessing what quantity of water can be utilised from a dam of a particular size. 
I believe that too much is made of what is called the increased production which will come from irrigated areas. Perhaps there will be some increase in production but I point out that where there is assured production there is a security that does not apply where these particular facilities do not exist and where people are dependent on dry land farming. Little is said about what security of production means. Those who have been through the droughts that have been experienced in Queensland recently are more appreciative of the value of this type of water conservation. The increased production that comes from irrigation is spread over a period and this helps to counter the disadvantage that may accrue if all the production came about at a time when production generally was good from dry land farming areas. Production can be spread over the year because of irrigation and it can be available when not so much production is available from areas other than the irrigation areas. It is vital to have accurate measurements made of the flows of our rivers so that the potential of our underground water resources and our surface waters can be determined. 
There has not always been a correct utilisation of our water supplies. Sometimes there has been an over-use of an irrigation scheme with the result that water is not available when it is sorely needed. This situation can be remedied by our obtaining a better appreciation, through this scheme, of the quantity of water which may be available for a particular scheme that is envisaged in a survey. But when : the surveys are all completed and with a full and correct utilisation of the water economically available for irrigation and domestic supplies, it will become patently clear that from a national viewpoint the disadvantage will be from lack of available water and not from too much water. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.33) - 1 approach this problem from a slightly different angle from the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in that I am not so concerned about the value of investigations that are taking place as I am at the lack of investigations. As a member representing one of the driest parts of New South Wales I fully appreciate the importance of grants to the States to accelerate the measurement of the flow of rivers and the investigation and measurement of underground water resources. In a nation of 70 per cent arid or semi arid land where the threat of drought is always present, and in New South Wales where 60 per cent of the State could be classified as arid or semi arid, the need to harness all our water resources on a State and interstate basis is necessary. It is well known that the Darling River is the longest and driest river in New South Wales. It flows through the most drought prone area of the State and as the water storages on the centra] and northern rivers are constructed less water will flow into the Darling. This has been well recognised by all governments and a system of 37 weirs from below Bourke has been planned to use this deep channelled river to store water for use in times of drought or dry years. But over the last 5 years only one weir has been constructed. This scheme must be speeded up with a target of 3 weirs per annum which would make it possible for graziers in the west to have not only a safer water supply but to grow fodder to store for dryyears. 
No doubt this grant to the States will greatly assist in this regard, but as a Federal member greatly interested in the problem of water storages whose electorate takes in the driest parts of New South Wales, I feel that the information given with the introduction of this Bill leaves much to be desired. We are asked to make available $8.2m to the States to carry out the measurement of the flow of surface water and to investigate underground water resources, but ve have been given little or no detail about how this money will be spent. We should not be asked to vote on the Bill unless we have this information. The importance of this was brought home to me a few months ago when I was approached by people who have homes on Sunset Strip, which is part of the Menindee Lakes storage scheme. These homes are all valued from $10,000 to $25,000 and their owners were concerned at the great quantity of water that was being let out of the Menindee Lakes scheme to flush out the great anabranch and supply water to the 33 homesteads between Menindee and the Murray River. The people considered that too much water was being allowed to flow out of the Menindee Lakes scheme. About 12 months ago their homes were sitting on a dry lake and they had become very concerned. I made a tour of the river. I was fortunate enough to have some assistance. Motor boats were provided in different areas to enable me to investigate the situation. I could see no grounds for the fears of these people. It was rumoured that illegal weirs, billabongs and creeks were being filled instead of only homesteads being supplied with water. I must admit that I could And no evidence of this. My information was that the recommendation from the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission was that more water than was actually let down the river should have been released. In any case, an aerial survey is made twice during the period when water is running down the river to ensure that everything is carried out in accordance with the understood practice. I feel that in this instance more information should have been given to the people. A member of a large area, whose time is almost completely occupied, cannot fully investigate these matters. If he were given the opportunity to take part in some of these aerial surveys it would greatly facilitate his work and would be a source of greater satisfaction to the people in those areas. 
It must be remembered that the driest part of New South Wales is in that part of my electorate which is called the far west, yet my investigations show that little or no research has been done in this area in relation to underground water resources. To sink a shallow bore of from 300 to 400 feet in that area would cost $4.50 per foot for the drilling contractor plus the cost of piping, sand screen and a pump, or a total cost of $200 if the bore were unsuccessful. Of course, if the bore were successful and some of the parts could not be salvaged the bore would cost up to $300. lt is a pretty costly exercise if it is carried out on a hit and miss basis. A good example of what the lack of useful information is costing the grazier in this area is the fact that in 1959 a bore was sunk at Braunghams Gate to a depth of 202 feet. It supplied 250 gallons an hour of poor quality water with a very high salt content. This year it was decided to replace it with a new bore at a site 50 yards away. On the driller's recommendation the bore was taken down to 300 feet and a supply of 1,140 gallons an hour of good quality water was obtained. This means that for 11 years the grazier on that property had been forced to operate with poor quality water due to lack of research and information. 1 have asked the graziers in this area why an approach was not made to the New South Wales Government to have more research carried out on underground water supplies. I was informed that this had taken place and was shown copies of correspondence from the western division of the Pastures Protection Board and the Graziers Association indicating that an approach was made to the New South Wales Government in 1967. A request was made for a rotary type drilling plant to be used by the Water Conservation and Irrigation 
Commission in prospecting for underground water in the arid areas of the western division. On that occasion the graziers were informed the Commission had purchased 4 high speed rotary drill rigs but because it was necessary to train the crews to operate the drills it was essential that the plants operate within a reasonable distance of Dubbo and Cootamundra. As far as I can ascertain these drills have never seen the western division of the State. This is not good enough. In my opinion it is important to New South Wales and to our survival that all water be regulated, controlled and used to the greatest advantage for irrigation, stock purposes and consumption in our towns and cities. The demand for these purposes is becoming greater. Therefore, it is necessary for any sane government to ensure that the waters flowing into our streams are controlled. The Government should investigate schemes such as those put forward by John W. Campbell, which would bring 4 million acre feet of water over the mountains to the western rivers, based on the Clarence River scheme. The Government should also investigate the scheme put forward by the Barwon-Darling Association. Facts and figures should be made available to these organisations. At the same time the Government should take steps to protect the water we already have. 
I am told by the dried fruit growers at Wentworth and Curlwaa that although provision has been made to pump water from the deep drainage areas to areas away from the Murray, this high salinity water often finds its way back into the Murray. The River Murray Commission shows that it has some concern for this problem because under a new agreement with the New South Wales Government it can claim the waters of the Menindee Lakes storage to flush the lower Murray should the salinity build up due to the lack of the smoothing effect that Chowilla would have had if it had been built. In fact, the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement seems to have been completely overlooked by Government supporters when propounding the merits of the Dartmouth scheme as against those of the Chowilla scheme. It is well known that the River Murray Commission could take water in the Menindee scheme in excess of 390,000 acre feet should it be necessary to flush the lower 
Murray of its salinity. Of course, an area like the Menindee Lakes scheme built to hold 2 million acre feet of water would soon become contaminated and useless. Yet if we look at the map of New South Wales it will be seen that the Menindee Lakes area is the only major water storage in the western part of New South Wales. A brochure issued in New South Wales states that the Darling River has ceased to flow completely on several occasions. In 1902 and again in 1919 the river ceased to flow for 12 consecutive months. Should this happen again what sort of plight would the people of this area be in when this sort of water agreement puts our water a: the disposal of the River Murray Commission for the purposes I have already stated? 
Some Government supporters tried to understate the problem of salinity in the lower Murray but  Mr Driden's  report on this matter as far back as 1947 should leave no doubt about (his danger. At that time  Mr Driden  was  Deputy  EngineerinChief of the South Australian Irrigation Commission. In the drought of 1957  Mr Driden  prepared a report for the Murray Citrus Growers Co-operative Association setting out clearly the danger of salinity in the lower Murray. My information shows that the farm water supply division of the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission has provided excellent advice to farmers in the low rainfall areas on the construction of dams on their property for stock and domestic water supplies. But these small dams arc not the answer to our problems in the far west of New South Wales. If it could be found and tapped, underground water would be of great assistance, but the Government has not carried out adequate investigation or research into this matter. The whole of the central and western areas of New South Wales must be investigated for underground water basins. These underground water supplies must be used only in times of emergency. This' should be backed up by a complete investigation by the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission of ali coastal rivers with a long range view to diverting water over the mountains so that all storages can be maintained at a high level for emergencies and inland rivers assured of a good flow, thus defeating the build-up of salt in our streams and irrigation areas. The nation's water resources are such that until waters from the coastal rivers are utilised there will never be sufficient to supply the whole of the irrigable land and the industrial establishments. Sufficient investigation of our underground supply has not been carried out to ascertain whether there is a permanent supply of water, whether water already found is in the form of underground lakes and basins, or whether the water already tapped is seepage from rivers or lakes and thus exhaustible. All these things must be done. When bringing down a Bill as important as this the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  should supply greater detail of how the States are spending this amount of money because as far as my electorate is concerned, the State's activities fall far short of what could be called a fair thing. 
We have just listened to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  who claims that the scheme proposed by the Bill offers nothing to the wool growers. Nothing could be further from the facts of the situation, because the scheme offers something of very great benefit to the wool growers. The honourable member said that it was not what the wool growers asked for. It may not be exactly what was asked far at the meetings to which he referred, but 1 have talked to wool growers who were at those meetings and they are very satisfied with the progress that has been made towards achieving a great improvement on what existed at that time. That is the important factor. Never in the history of the wool growing industry has there been such an acceptance by the representatives of the growers as there has been of this particular action on the part of the Government. 
Most of what I would have liked to have said about the Bill has been well said already by members of the Australian Country Party, but as, with my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  I represent many of the most sorely pressed wool growers of the Commonwealth because of the tremendous drought that has extended over those areas, I thought that I should at least say how pleased I am-- and I am sure that the honourable member for Kennedy would join with me in this - to know that the Government has come down with a scheme which offers such promise of assistance to the wool growers in that area. Surely if anyone needs assistance, it is those people. Wool growers recognise that statutory powers are necessary. That was one of the major factors mentioned at the meetings that have been referred to by the honourable member for Bendigo. There is no question either that a flexible price is the most efficient way of ensuring that wool growers will get the highest price that the market is prepared to pay. At the same time it will ensure that the stockpile of wool is kept within reasonable limits. This is, indeed, the best way to overcome the substantial fluctuations that sometimes occur during wool sales. 
The desperate situation with which the wool industry is confronted demands that growers receive the highest price obtainable, and this is the objective of the Bill. This is what those meetings of wool growers wanted to achieve, and this is the way the Government has decided it can best be achieved. This has been approved almost unanimously by representatives of the wool growers throughout Australia. The Bill does, in fact, represent what the Australian wool growers want. One of the fundamental operations associated with this scheme will be the accuracy with which the market can be gauged and the flexible reserve price applied. Wool growers arc hard pressed financially - and that takes in many of them, especially in the areas that I have referred lo - are no doubt hoping for a quick return to prices which show some degree of profitability, but I am of the opinion that it would be unwise to expect miracles. Steady progress towards that objective would be more likely to ensure the ultimate success of the scheme. I realise that many wool growers cannot afford to wait, but these growers may have to be taken care of under a debt reconstruction scheme and with finance made available on long term low interest conditions. 
The personnel of the Commission will have a heavy responsibility and they should be given a reasonable time to achieve the results at which they are aiming. There is no doubt that marketing would be streamlined anl considerable savings made in the selling of wool if it could be sold by sample. When core testing and objective measurement reaches the stage where it is universally acceptable as accurately representing the article, these aims will be achieved. Every effort must be made to have this method operating at the earliest possible time, and I am confident that this will happen. The establishment of confidence will, I believe, be one of the great benefits arising from this legislation. I feel that this confidence will spread through all sections of the wool industry and I confidently trust that it will become the base for the rehabilitation of the wool industry. 
I join with other honourable members who have offered congratulations to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on being able to bring in this Bill in the time that has been available to him and against a background of division that has become so much a part of wool industry negotiations in the past. As my colleague the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  has said, the Minister has accomplished almost the impossible. I join in (he congratulations to all who have been concerned or who have assisted the Minister in this matter and to  Sir John  Crawford for the part he played in assisting the Minister to have this Bill before the House tonight. I trust that this achievement will encourage the wool industry to continue to strive to maintain unity of approach in facing the problems of the future and that by our combined efforts we will be able to give the maximum assistance to this great industry which is still of such national importance. 1 should like to make a few comments on the efforts of the Opposition in this debate. I believe this has been one of the worst efforts that we have ever seen from the Australian Labor Party. Honourable members opposite have asked what the Government has done for the wool industry. I tried to make a note of the words used by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who said that the Government had hitched its wagon to the auction system. Whatever his words, he tried to convey that the only thing the Government had ever done was to stick to the auction system. Nothing could be further from the truth. The honourable member for 
Riverina should have known that the Government twice stood ready to back a reserve price plan for wool and stood ready to back those reserve price plans financially, placing no limit on the extent of the amount which might have been necessary to support the plan. Yet the honourable member tonight said that the Government has been concerned only with sticking to the auction system. 
If the honourable member did know of the action taken by the Government he must stand condemned for his completely inaccurate statement regarding the Government's attitude. If he did not know, he should not have had the temerity to talk about a subject that he knows so little about. J have selected the honourable member for Riverina on whom to comment because I took a note of some of his remarks, but his was characteristic of the approach of the Labor Party to this Bill. I mention also that the Japanese Trade Agreement paved the way for Japan to become the greatest buyer of Australian wool, yet honourable members opposite say that the Government has done nothing for the wool industry. As I have said, the Opposition has put up on this occasion one of its poorest performances. Perhaps one of the reasons for this is because all that honourable members opposite know about the wool industry is second hand or theoretical. But the Opposition's performance has been made even worse by its blatant efforts to try to get some political gain from the desperate situation in which the wool growers now find themselves. 1 would have liked to say much more on this subject. 
I want to leave time for my colleagues to speak in the debate. I ignore the interjections which are no better than the poor efforts that have been put up by the Opposition during the debate. I conclude by saying that it gives me great pleasure to support the Bill. 
) - Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to a recent statement by a responsible public figure that individual liberties might be threatened more by internal civil strife than by international friction and war? Has the Government adequate power to cope with attacks on individual freedoms which are becoming more prevalent in Australia? If not, will action be taken to strengthen the ability of the Government to preserve those freedoms that we have long accepted in Australia as part of our freedom loving democratic way of life? 
I too welcome the Bill. I should like to pay a tribute to the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  for the efforts made by him and those who assisted him to have this Bill brought down during this session. It was very important that this should be done. I think he deserves credit for being able to achieve this result in the time that has been available to him. It is necessary, as he pointed out in his second reading speech, to remove any obstacle that the Bankruptcy Act may present to the operation of compositions or schemes of arrangement entered into. It is rather a striking testimony to the change in rural industry to note that this provision which is being brought back into the Bankruptcy Act was first inserted in 1933. In 1962 the Commonwealth Bankruptcy Law Advisory Committee presented its report which stated that the affairs of very few farmers were administered under various State Acts to which section 57a of the repealed Bankruptcy Act applied. Because of the changing circumstances that have come over much of primary industry an alteration to the Bankruptcy Act has become necessary. 
It is common knowledge that the drought in Queensland is the worst ever experienced in that State, both in intensity and in the area affected. Only by the strenuous efforts of the State Government in farm reconstruction and debt reconstruction can many areas of primary" industry be retained and the people concerned be enabled to remain on their property. The situation is as serious as that; it is a matter of great concern to Queenslanders generally. Quite some time ago, in recognition of the problem which was facing primary producers in Queensland, Country Party members of the Federal Parliament formed a drought committee. We have been conferring with the Queensland Government and the Federal Government to bring about, the co-operation which will be required if worthwhile assistance is to be provided. There is no doubt that if the amount of assistance which is required is to be made available, the Federal Government will have to provide some of it. 1 should like to pay a tribute to  Senator Lawrie  for the work he has done in this field. 1 am sure that the Minister will agree that  Senator Lawrie  approached him on a number of occasions on behalf of the Committee. 
There is no doubt that reconstruction in Queensland is vital. It is equally certain that an amendment to the Bankruptcy Act is necessary to enable the Rural Reconstruction Board in that State to operate effectively. I appreciate what the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said on this subject. He mentioned a number of factors that were worthy of mention but which I will not repeat except perhaps to emphasise the great increase in indebtedness that has come over the rural community. 
Mention has been made of the need for some further action. Of course, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  is presently and urgently engaged in a review of this situation to find the best methods to approach this position. It is a very serious position and of course we have to look at it from the Federal angle - from a Commonwealth wide point of view. The Parliament may decide to give measures application over all of the Commonwealth. I believe that very often there has been a good deal of criticism of people who represent rural areas. It is said that these honourable members have a parochial outlook. I want to say that in recent times the order of priority of the work of members of Parliament from rural constituencies, however broad their outlook may be, has necessitated their concentrating on rural matters. 1 reject the suggestion that because honourable members who represent rural constituencies speak quite a lot on rural matters we do not have as broad a national outlook as any other member in this House. 
The value of rural industry to the Commonwealth hardly needs emphasising. Although the wool industry is suffering hardships it is still providing  20 per  cent of our export income. Where would our economy be without this contribution? What will happen to our economy if the wool industry collapses? However, these remarks are widening out a little from what I intended to say. The hour is late and I shall not expand this subject as much as I would like to expand it. However, I would like to mention that the methods by which finance has been arranged comes under various measures. Finance is secured mainly from the trading banks, pastoral finance companies, life assurance companies, the Commonwealth Development Bank and non-institutional lending. The problem that we face in this field is that the normal sources of finance for rural industry are drying up. The demands on these financial institutions have reached a maximum capacity. I do not condemn the institutions for what they have done. I believe that they have endeavoured to try to cope with the demand but that it is getting beyond them. 
There will be a need to cover the requirements of rural industry. I believe that this will be done under such measures as the proposed rural reconstruction board in Queensland. I would like to quote from an article by F. G. Jarrett of the University of Adelaide. This article is contained in a book entitled 'Agriculture in the Australian Economy' which was first printed in 1967. The article indicates what the trends should be if we are to maintain our primary industries, lt was fairly obvious even when this book was printed what means would have to be applied to keep our primary industries moving as they should and as we would like to see them move. 1 want to quote inter alia from this article.  Mr Jarrett  states: 
The bulk of institutional credit provided to agriculture conies from the trading banks and to a less extent, the pastoral firms. The overdraft form of lending has undoubtedly served agriculture well but it is questionable whether it is the most appropriate credit instrument for presentday agriculture. Since many of the new technologies in agriculture require relatively longer periods than in secondary industry to 'pay off, farmers need to be assured of a continuity in credit availablity which is not always assured under the overdraft form. Yet it is probably the technologies most needing intermediate credit which will make the greatest contribution to agricultural productivity and through it to economic development A beginning was made with term lending^- 
Of course, this is well known; it was done in this Parliament - in 1962, and the speed with which these resources were committed suggests farmers' needs for inter-, mediate length loans for stated periods were not being met by the then existing credit arrangements. The increase in March 1966 in the term lending fund and the establishment of a farm development loan fund will provide useful additions to the supply of intermediate and long-term lending funds available to agriculture. 
So it was patently clear then that this was developing. Of course, the very grave fall in prices and the very unfavourable seasonal conditions have aggravated the position tremendously since that time. In the last 2 paragraphs of his article  Mr Jarrett  stated: 
In the context of low-income agriculture, the distributive aspect of credit would suggest the provision of credit with some element of subsidy. The identification of the low-income farmer presents a puzzle but presumably they could be identified if sufficient efforts were put into the task of finding just who or where the low-income farmers are. 
It would not be very difficult to find them today. The article continues: 
Recently work by Hoffman and Hume suggests that the income disparity between farm and nonfarm incomes in Australia is nowhere near as large as exists in countries such as the United States, for example. 
I believe that situation has developed very considerably since this article was written. It continues: 
Even so, there may be pockets of poverty in Australian agriculture. It may be doubted whether subsidised credit is the most effective way of tackling any low-income problem, generally associated with inadequate farm sizes. Indeed, the provision of such credit may delay the consolidation of farms into economic units and perpetuate the resource misallocations which already exist. 
That article sets out very well the need for farm reconstruction even then and the need for a different approach to rural finance. So I indicate to honourable members how very much I welcome this measure. 1 have spoken with the object of trying to give some appreciation of the need for this Commonwealth Government to take an interest in rural finance, particularly under the conditions which exist today. 1 want to draw attention to the fact that there have been fluctuations in rural industries over many years. The crisis which is facing Queensland at the present time is the worst it has known. I know that other States are affected as well but perhaps not to the same extent because the drought position has not been as bad in other States as it is in Queensland. In these circumstances, 1 believe that the Commonwealth Government should come to the assistance of primary industry. The situation has fluctuated. I believe that the man has not been born who can accurately forecast world markets in almost any field. Only recently we saw a dramatic change in the wheat situation in world markets. Because of the tremendous value of agriculture to the Commonwealth of Australia we must preserve our agricultural income; we must preserve our agricultural industry. We can do this only if the Commonwealth Government makes some contribution. I believe that the industry has earned this help over the years. To my mind, the present situation is only a passing phase, although it is probably worse than it has been before. But with the growth of the world's population we will be looking to our agricultural industry to continue to make this country the nation that it can become. 
Friday, 30 October 1970 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister advise what were the reasons for the alternative offers of finance to the States for rural reconstruction? Was the provision of funds on the basis of 25 per cent grant and 75 per cent loan at 6 per cent more beneficial to the States than the full amount as a loan at 3 per cent? Could he further advise what was the basis used for the allocation of funds to the various States? 
1 rise today to say a few words about rural reconstruction. I would like to commend the Government on its action in making J) 00m available lo the Slates for this purpose. I do not think it would be unfair to say that the drought committee formed by the Queensland members of the Australian Country Party in the House has been working very strenuously towards this end for the best part of 12 months or more and I am confident that their activities have resulted in helping to expedite the allocation of funds for this purpose. This is quite understandable because the drought situation which was referred to so eloquently by my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  is so dreadful. Because of the tragic situation in Queensland due to drought problems primary industries are in greater trouble in that State than they are - bad and all as these may be - in those parts of Australia which are not suffering in the same way from drought, lt is quite obvious that the SI 6m which has been allocated to Queensland will be quite insufficient to cover the amount required for the complete reconstruction of primary industries in that State, lt will require a great deal more than that but at the same time ii is a beginning and we are grateful that a start has been made. 1 am concerned, however, that these funds are not yet in operation even in Queensland where a board has been set up. I am concerned, too, that the funds available to that board - $16m plus the Si. 5m which was available to the Slate by virute of previous rural reconstruction schemes or similar types of operation - will be insufficient for it to carry on for very long if it is to do its work in time. So I hope that a review of this position will take place before the continuity of operation of this board has to be suspended for want of funds. 1 am very concerned about those people who. through tlo fault of their own, are in these very difficult financial circumstances and may not possibly participate in the first allocation of the $l6m which I hope will be only the. first allocation. I do want to refer, too, to the allocation of funds between the Slates. I believe that $16m was less than was deserved by Queensland from the total of $100m. 1 know that every Slate has to look after its own affairs and its own people and I know, too, that agreement was reached between the States in this direction, but 1 believe that Queensland got scant consideration from some of the other States, at any rate, when they knew that very severe drought conditions have existed in 
Queensland for 12 years or more. I hope thai when further funds are made available a fairer and more equitable distribution might be agreed to between the States. 
There is a lot that I could say about rural reconstruction but I want to mention another aspect of this matter which 1 feel does need consideration by the Government despite whatever alleviation might be obtained, and I am hoping it will be very great. We should help those people who are in serious need of assistance. It should be borne in mind, as has been mentioned before, that this is not simply a matter of helping people because they are in need, lt is helping one of the great industries of this country which has provided so much and is continuing to provide so much export income for Australia despite the uneconomic conditions under which wool in particular is being produced. The provision of funds for the assistance of primary producers is serving a national purpose in the same way as protection for our secondary industries is providing assisi alice to those industries to enable them to create greater employment opportunities for the people of this country. 1 will not enlarge on that; it is another story. But I do want to draw attention to the fact 1 hat there is a need to support our primary industries on a national basis. This is loo often lost sight of by people who say: 'Oh well, you are in that position and that is nobody's fault except your own or because of circumstances over which you have no control.' But the Government cannot alford, as my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy has pointed out, to allow these conditions to continue without straining every possible nerve to provide assistance for primary industry. 
One of the points that I particularly want to make on this occasion - this is something apart from rural reconstruction itself - is that there is a need for finance to be made available to our primary producers other than through the Rural Reconstruction Board. 1 am very strongly of the opinion - I have been advocating this for a long time now - that the Australian Development Bank should be rechartered to allow it to provide long term low interest loans to our primary producers for the conduct of their ordinary business. 
The position is ill at these primary producers just cannot get the funds. 1 do not know whether this is due to the fact that a lot of funds have been tied up in primary industry and banks and other financial institutions are not anxious to increase the percentage of funds that they provide for primary industry. The position is that primary producers cannot get the loans which they need and the rechartering of the Development Bank is one way in which it can be done. 
I would like to draw attention to the sort of thing that has happened in my own State of Queensland where money was lent by the Agricultural Bank over a period of 20 years on the basis of 5 per cent interest and 3 per cent redemption. But it was a flat rate of 8 per cent per annum over 20 years which serviced the debt. This was of wonderful value to the people in that area. It did not cost the community anything. 1 am sure that there are many primary producers in Australia today who would be very grateful for an opportunity to borrow money through some instrumentality on similar terms. Such a scheme is a very necessary adjunct to our rural reconstruction boards if we are to lift our primary industry out of the very serious position it is in today and indeed to relieve rural reconstruction boards throughout the Commonwealth of some of the very heavy burdens which will rest upon them during the time that this rural construction scheme is in operation. 
The provision of funds under this scheme involves not only the people to whom the funds are made available but also the businessmen and the workers in our country towns. Our country towns are absolutely dependent in many instances on reasonable prosperity in our primary industries. We will therefore have to ensure that these towns recover some of the prosperity which they have enjoyed and which no doubt in the passage of time they will enjoy in the future. The best way to achieve this it to provide reasonable finance on a secure basis over a period of time to the primary producers who are served by these towns. I do not think I am being unfair when I say that banks are not confident of primary industry at this stage. The banks have permitted many primary producers to operate an overdraft and they are now asking that those overdrafts be reduced but the primary producers cannot afford to reduce their overdrafts. I strongly urge the Government to have a look at the proposition of rechartering the Development Bank to enable it to tackle and perhaps solve some of the problems which confront our primary industries. This could be done without cost to the community. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Can the Minister for Trade and Industry advise us of the present position with regard to negotiations taking place at Geneva concerning the International Grains Arrangement, the International Wheat Council, the Wheat Trade Convention and the Food Aid Convention? Has any firm arrangement been made for a further meeting and if so is Russia likely to be a participant at the next meeting? 
As a Queenslander, and one who recognises the tremendous value of the sugar industry to Queensland and to Australia, it gives me very great pleasure to support the Bill. There has always been a very close cooperation between the Commonwealth Government, the Queensland Government and the sugar industry. This is as it should be, and this policy of close co-operation has been carried on very effectively by the present Commonwealth and Queensland governments. There is no need for me to stress the importance of the sugar industry to Australia and particularly to northern tropical development. This is fully recognised by the Government which realises that the sugar industry is the dominant source of income for tropical north-east Queensland. The effect that the industry has on the economy generally and on the development of that area is almost astounding. No less than 60 per cent of Australia's tropical population and 90 per cent of Queensland's tropical population live in the Queensland sugar districts. I need say little more than that to emphasise the tremendous importance of this industry and the part it is playing in our national economy. 
I have been appalled to hear suggestions that a lot of this area should be turned lover to the beef cattle industry. What would happen to the population of this region and the prosperous towns within it if that were to happen? I hope that this suggestion does not receive approval or recommendation and that it will be completely disregarded. What would happen to north Queensland in this event is emphasised by the fact that there are no fewer than 8,000 growers in the industry generally, though not all of them are in north Queensland. They have a farm area of some 90 acres. This gives us an idea of the closer settlement and the effect of the sugar industry there. The sugar industry has been a very responsible industry indeed. It can take great pride in the efficiency with which it has conducted its operations and its approach to the idea of being self-supporting and able to stand on its own feet. 
On every occasion when the sugar industry has been faced with difficulties it has been responsible in its approach. In 1965, 1966 and 1967, the period when the very low export prices were operating, it came to the Commonwealth Government and what did it do? It sought only loans which it undertook to reply. It asked only for the amount which would enable millers and growers to get almost a subsistence living in order to carry on this great industry. I think it is worthy of note that this Government did come to the assistance of the industry with a loan of some $23m which was to be repaid with interest over a period of 10 years at the rate of $3m per annum, the first repayment being made this year. This was arranged at the time of the loan and the sugar industry is honouring the agreement to repay the loan. 
I wish to make this point in relation to the sugar industry. If the industry was not in a reasonably prosperous state it could not afford the concessions it is giving to the fruit industry under this Bill. It has to be in a reasonably prosperous or viablestate to enable it to make the concessions. The industry is again acting responsibly, as it always has. In 1967 the industry applied for a rise in the home consumption price of sugar and this was approved only after a thorough investigation of costs. The Government agreed to an increase of 1.5c per lb, or.15 per cent. It was the first rise in the home consumption price since 1960. This also, of course, indicates the degree to which the industry through its efficiency has absorbed costs which have increased so much over that period. Generally speaking, it is not as well known as it might be throughout this country that the industry makes available to the processors of export products approved for domestic rebate, sugar at the lowest possible price. What a tremendous benefit that is to the fruit industry. This is something for which the sugar industry should be given very great credit. There is no doubt that while these concessions continue, the fruit industry, including the canned fruit industry, will benefit. My colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  understands the marketing problems of the fruit industry and appreciates the value of that industry to Australia. 
In Queensland the deciduous fruit industry is located largely in the Stanthorpe district. I have very strongly supported the establishment of a cannery in that area despite the fact that there are some marketing problems. I have never been one to look at the development of an industry or its progress or prosperity only in relation to the economics of the day. I look at it over the broad aspect. Despite the problems which confront us in relation to marketing, as indeed they have confronted us in the marketing of many other products,  1  believe the establishment of a cannery would be a very good move and the industry would benefit from the concessions which are granted. It would be another outlet for sugar in the State where the greatest production of sugar in the Commonwealth takes place, even though the sugar would be made available at a concessional rate. 
Some mention has been made, and I think it is reasonable to make a passing reference to it, of the concern that has been expressed in regard to the industry should Britain join the European Common Market. Approximately  400,000  tons of sugar is supplied to that market and  335,000  tons are supplied on satisfactory terms under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement. If that outlet is taken away, alternative markets for that sugar will have to be found. If that market is taken away and alternative markets are not provided it will lessen the capacity of the sugar industry to provide these concessions, lt will lessen the capacity of the industry to play its part in the national economy. So I believe it is vital that we look very closely at this and if the United Kingdom does enter the European Common Market let us hope that the phasing out of the agreement that has been made will take place over as long a period as possible. This is the very least that the United Kingdom Government owes to Australia. It should give us time perhaps to be able to increase the quotas which are allowed under the International Sugar Agreement. 
I also want to refer to the price of sugar in Australia in comparison with the price of sugar in at least some of the major industrial countries of the world. Sugar is sold here at a lower price, as has been pointed out, and this needs emphasising because the sugar growers and the industry itself have had to carry some criticism in that regard. It has been said that sugar should be made available to consumers in Australia at a lower price than it has been. If we look at the figures which have been given, and I will not repeat them, showing our price in comparison with that in many nations it will be seen that this criticism is not warranted. 
I want to pay what I consider a well deserved tribute to the way that the industry has been handled, lt is efficient. There has been a good deal of criticism of the governments concerned in relation to the expansion which took place in the sugar industry, but I think that today there would be very few people who would not agree that this was a justifiable expansion. It was of benefit to Queensland and Australia and even if the future holds some problems surely we will not take a frightened approach to any of these developments in Australia. We certainly must approach the matter sensibly, but we should not do nothing simply because there are some problems facing us in the future. We will face those problems and they can and, I hope, will be overcome. I believe if it had not been for that expansion we would not have' this industry as prosperous as it is today. The point has already been made, and justifiably, that the International Sugar Agreement is of tremendous value to the industry. If we do not have that Agreement we do not have a prosperous industry and if we do not have a prosperous industry we cannot give these concessions to help our sister industry, the fruit industry. We should not forget the part played by the present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and his predecessor in office, in conjunction with officials of the sugar industry, in the  1968  negotiations which -resulted in such a successful agreement being reached for the industry. 
The world price of sugar is approximately Stg50 a ton. It was Stg.l2 or Stg 13 some 3 years ago. Who could have predicted that? If we had asked people 2 or 3 years ago to say whether the price would rise to the present level who would have been prepared to forecast that this was to be the case? We do not want to approach this matter with too much timidity. The industry has shown its capacity to overcome the problems and I am sure that, whatever might happen in the future, it will overcome the problems it faces now and which it will meet as time goes on. There is a reasonable level of prosperity in the sugar industry today: It is true that it has many costs over which it has no control. I very sincerely hope that those costs will not be increased in the immediate future by the introduction of a 35-hour week. 1 believe that at this stage this is something which the sugar industry and other primary industries cannot afford. I hope honourable members on the Opposition side will fake note of the burden that it would place on the sugar industry and that they will be able to persuade their Party leaders to take a more responsible attitude towards this aspect of costs in primary industry. 
I wanted to say a bit more but the matter has been fairly well covered. I have emphasised some of the points mentioned previously and there are a few more things I could have referred to that were mentioned in the speech made by the spokesman for the Opposition on this Bill. I am pleased to note that there are areas of agreement on the attitude taken. I am very concerned about costs and I mentioned the major factor in them which I think could have a detrimental effect on the sugar industry and its capacity to provide concessions, particularly to the fruit industry and in relation to certain sugar products. It is a matter of very great pleasure and interest to the people of Queensland generally to know that the price has reached a stage where the industry will prosper. I hope this will continue and thereby enable the industry to continue its job for Queensland and Australia. It helps the fruit industry and other export industries. They will benefit by the agreement on. these matters made between the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  has just given us a discourse on censorship. I find myself in agreement with many of the things that he stated. I agree that we cannot live in a society that has no control, and I believe that in the field of censorship some control must be exercised. He mentioned too that there has been some relaxation of censorship and he mentioned that the number of banned books now in the Library is only one quarter of what it used to be. I do not know that that is a great step in progress. It depends on the type of books lifted from the banned list. Whether there is any real advantage in the lifting of the ban on these books depends on the contribution that they make to the welfare and benefit of the community. 1 am one of those who may be a bit old fashioned, but I am inclined to think that the literature that is available to the community at large, is in ample .supply, and I doubt very rauch that many of those previously banned books have contributed very much to the uplifting of the standards of the community when the ban on them has been lifted. 
This does not mean that I feel there should be too rigid a censorship. I believe there is a need for what has been called a reasonable approach to this subject. But in examining censorship I believe that we should consider what is in the best interests of the community. Of course, the question that then arises is this: Who should decide what is in the best interests of the community? Results of a gall up poll published in a Brisbane daily newspaper in December of last year showed that whilst there had been some reduction of the proportion of those in favour of present censorship laws there were still some 55 per cent of the people who said that there should be no lowering of the standards aplied to censorship. If 55 per cent of the people in a democracy ask for something or suggest that a certain method should be used, that request or suggestion should be observed by the Government, even though the proportion expressing that view is smaller than had previously applied. 
In the statement that we are discussing the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  made something of that point. He said: 'Censorship for whom and for what?' He called for a balanced judgment to be made by the community in assessing what is and what is not offensive to it. I believe that this public opinion poll has given a reasonable answer and I believe that it is a reasonable reflection of the opinion of the people. So 1 say that it is wise that we treat the liberalisation of censorship with a good deal of caution. We should look at it also from the point of view of what is to be gained by it. I take the attitude that it is not so much a matter of what harm will be done to the community. I think we should look also at the other side and see what good is to be done to the community in altering the position we have taken up. 
The Minister asked: Whilst people might object to love-making scenes, is it consistent that they should allow evil such as hate, greed, envy, calummy and violence to be depicted without raising any objection? 1 believe that whether or not there has been a public outcry against this matter, there is a responsibility on the representatives of the community to express their view about how we should approach the matter. From my point of view, I would hope that the Minister would proceed with due caution in his approach to this subject. He has received a lot of commendation for the liberalisation that he has introduced to censorship, and in some respects I believe he has approached it in a fair and reasonable way. But I hope that this commendation he has received from certain sections of the community will not contribute to his taking an attitude that will encourage him to go beyond what I believe is a reasonable approach to the matter. I notice that in his statement he asked a lot of questions. He asked: 
Could we reasonably suggest thai those who have no interest in films at all - non-moviegoers - should have no say in the establishment of community standards on films making? These are questions which must be answered if the community standards test is to mean anything. 
I should like to hear the views of honourable member even though I did not agree reaction to some of the approaches to this subject tonight is that they do not reflect the opinion  -  I am referring particularly to speeches that I have heard from the other side of this House - of the majority of the people, although they may reflect the opinion of the people those speakers represent; I would not know that. 
The honourable member can have his say on this subject, but I do not want any assistance in expressing my opinion. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member will cease interjecting. 
I am not worrying about the interjections. They are of a standard one might expect to hear from honourable members opposite, and they do not do that side of the House any credit. I hope that Hansard takes them up so that the public can read what is being said by honourable members on the other side. I would be happy to get an expression of Australian opinion on the interjections that  are taking place while I am making this speech. I believe that consideration should be given to bow censorship affects people generally and the attitude that people should take towards it. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who I notice is trying to interject, is the ever open mouthpiece of the new look Australian Labor Party. The fact that there may be some people or sections of the people who can see films or other material without it having an adverse effect on them does not mean that it is in the best interests of the community that the same films and materials should be made freely available. 1 am particularly concerned about what goes on film and what goes on television. 
I have heard a good deal tonight about the responsibility that rests upon the shoulders of parents to try to guide their children. An undoubted responsibility rests upon the shoulders of the representatives in this Parliament to see that those parents are given reasonable assistance in what is undoubtedly a very difficult task in these days. They will not be helped by a greater liberalisation of censorship. I believe there is merit in an examination of our present censorship laws. I believe that the Minister is to be commended for making this statement. It is wise that this Parliament should be able to discuss it, and it is a good thing that people should be given an opportunity to hear the views expressed by their members of Parliament on this subject. As I said before, I would be quite happy to have an expression of opinion by the people on the debate that has taken place tonight, particularly the views expressed by members of the Government as against those expressed by members of the Opposition. 
I want to know - and this is the main point of my speech - what is to be gained by a greater liberalisation of censorship than we have already had. I would like to have weighed against that what is to be lost by it. What are the detrimental factors attaching to a greater liberalisation of censorship? Surely this should be a factor concerning us all. Moderation in this subject, as in most other subjects, is the key to the attitude which we should take. 
The Minister spoke about community standards and I believe we .should take notice of what he said. There is a responsibility upon this Parliament and the members who comprise it to help to establish community standards at as high a level as we can reasonably establish them, at the same time maintaining a reasonable freedom and giving some liberalisation. I am not objecting to liberalisation. In one of the daily newspapers in my State the following heading appears: 
Our liberty depends upon the freedom of the Press and that cannot be limited without being lost. 
That quotation comes from Jefferson. Giving a pretty broad expression of opinion, I believe there would be very few people who would feel that the Press should be given unlimited licence. There should be some restriction on the Press. There has to be a limitation on what can be printed and published in the best interests of the community without depriving people of the full facts on most of the major issues of the day. I do not want to see a limitation on the Press, but at the same time there has to be some limitation. There are laws of libel that prevent the newspapers going beyond what is reasonable in what they say about individuals. So, some  boundary or some limitation has to be set somewhere.  1  hope that the discussion that has taken place tonight will lead not to a greater liberalisation of censorship but to an examination of the censorship standards that we have today with the object of maintaining them. I believe that we have gone far enough in the liberalisation of censorship and that there is nothing much to be gained by a further liberalisation at this stage. If any of those who had the opportunity to see the films and the censorship that was applied to them suggest that the scenes that were taken out would be of benefit to anybody in the community in any way, I am afraid, that I do not agree with them.  1  believe that in the standards of censorship that we have there is sufficient freedom to allow an expression of .opinion on practically all subjects. I believe that in maintaining the community standards that have been applied we in this Parliament should try to assist people in our community - particularly the parents and, perhaps to a -lesser extent, the- teachers of  younger students - in their efforts to establish those standards which 1 could not understand anyone . in this Parliament not wanting to see maintained. 
Order! The honourable member for Wills has the call. 
The Minister spoke about undue risk to our troops. He does not want them to get into undue risk. They are in undue risk, according to the point of view of more than half the people of Australia, while they are in Vietnam. It is true that if the Australian Labor Party's policy had been followed they would not have been there at all. I believe that most of the people in Australia would agree that, seeing the issues now with the clarity that is possible with 5 or 6 years of hindsight, we would not commit them there at all. We committed them because the United States commitment was there. 
Do not tell me that the Government and the Australian people in general go around looking for people to free from tyranny and to protect their independence. If that were the case, why is the Government so silent about West Irian, which is right next door? When are we going to launch an attack on the Greek colonels and get them out? There are 130 nations in the world of which not more than 25 or 30 are independent and free in the sense to which we refer. Does that mean that after Vietnam we have ninety-nine to go? It is utter rubbish. Everyone knows full well that we are there because we drifted into it with some dream about the American alliance. What about Cambodia, then? Cambodia is the innocent victim and innocent bystander. What has the Government done about that? There has not been even any effective attempt at diplomatic action concerning Cambodia. The same applies equally to the suffering people of Laos. 1 listened to the Minister's speech. It was a catalogue of inconsistencies, cliches and self-delusion. He did not speak about any of the issues that were before the Parliament. I make an appeal on behalf of this House and the Australian people for the people of Laos. I understand that another 15,000 or 25,000 people there have become refugees. When my colleague, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and I and a number of others were there about 6 or 7 months ago the needs of those people were relatively simple. With a few blankets, mosquito nets and ground sheets a great deal of their hardship would have been removed. Now they are faced with an all out war between North Vietnam and South Vietnam. 1 believe that the whole climate has changed. The situation has now moved from what might be called 'civil war' to a major war between two fairly populous countries which would be pretty powerful and effective when they are mobilised. I know that in the present situation the South Vietnamese have not proved their total effectiveness as a military force and that therefore the situation has changed. Australia's commitment there can gain nothing for us. 
We are arguing this afternoon that the Government has been less than honest with the Parliament. It has made no real statements. There has been no clarity in the statements. That was the issue I took up with the honourable member for Diamond Valley. There has been continuing Government confusion. In the last few weeks we have heard statements about what the Army was going to do in Vietnam. We have heard them contradicted by the Ministry, and we have heard new statements from the Ministry in Vietnam. The Parliament is informed only incidentally and indirectly when people ask questions. What we want to know is what it is all about. What are we achieving there militarily? What are we achieving there politically? Of course we are achieving very little militarily. The Minister mentioned the hills area. There has been little change over the last 2 or 3 years in the military situation around the hills area. There has been no political change, as far as one can determine, in the adjacent villages. Our information was that a very large proportion of the people in that area still support the National Liberation Front. That is not the case, 1 believe, throughout the rest of South Vietnam. 
Then there is the continuing drain on the Australian people and Australia's resources resulting from our commitment. The point at issue is the Government's failure to inform the Parliament on the future of the Australian Task Force and to inform the Parliament about any part of it. We want to know how much this is costing us. At the present moment it is costing about $42m a year just to have the forces there. This amount is added on to the other costs. No estimates have been placed before the Parliament of what our commitment actually costs. First of all there is the pay which is probably to the tune of $50m a year. In the costs that have been placed before the Parliament, that has not been admitted. What does it cost to maintain men in the field in such a situation? People in business tell me that it is possible to estimate somewhere between H to 2 times extra for heavy business operations such as occur in the engineering field. So there is another S75m. 
What does it cost to train the people at home in Australia to prepare the battalion which will replace the battalion that is going to come home? It will perhaps cost another $10m. What is the national service system costing? How much are repatriation benefits costing? How much are they going to cost? We can expect them to flow on for the next 50 years. It will probably cost Australia somewhere between S170m and $200m per annum for our commitment in Vietnam. I place this matter before the House because I believe it is important for the Australian people to understand that the commitment in Vietnam is not simply 7,000 or 8,000 men. The commitment is not just $42m a year extra. A study of the defence system shows that the rising costs in the defence bill have been pretty well contemporaneous with the Vietnam commitment. I think we have gone from 4 or 5 battalions in 1965-66 to 9 battalions now. Other things such as the national service system are very closely associated with it. 
What are the plans for the future? Are the battalions going to stay there indefinitely? Nothing has been said. Are we going to wait until the Americans have pulled out and then finally bring them home? My views about this are well known. As honourable members opposite have said, my views about the position of the people of Cambodia and Laos are well known. I believe that they are now in conflict in a war in which they are the innocent bystanders. What baffles me is the complete and utter silence df the international community about it all. Is it not possible that something can be done for the people to protect their independence and their neutrality? The principal sufferers at the present moment are the people of Laos. Nobody could be more inoffensive or more innocent victims than they are. Something to which we must turn ourselves - I might disagree with my 2 colleagues from this side of the House here - is the situation in regard to civil aid and other matters in Vietnam. I personally believe that South Vietnam is big enough to look after itself. 
We have a responsibility in some ways because our Government has committed us there. It is true that we can exercise no authority whatsoever over the Government of North Vietnam. We do have some kind of remote responsibility for our relations with South Vietnam. For our operations in Vietnam, the Government is answerable to this Parliament. That is why the Opposition is critical of what goes on in South Vietnam. Like most honourable members opposite, we on this side of the House know very little about what goes on in North Vietnam, but we do know that the people of Laos and Cambodia are being sacrificed in the war. I believe it is time we brought our forces home, f think that the recent dispatch of troops was an act of absolute and utter irresponsibility and cynicism. I would like somebody opposite to tell me what the score will be. How many of those soldiers does the Army estimate are going to be killed? According to the statistics for the last 5 years it will probably be between 30 and 50. How can the Government possibly justify that? 
I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that this is a futile and irrelevant exercise. I believe that our troops are there either because we started there and do not know how to pull out and do not have the political courage to do so; or because, for political advantage and to gain the support of splinter groups in Australia, the Government is prepared to continue this sacrifice. Throughout Australia the situation is being challenged continually. The despair 1: feel about that situation this afternoon is bad enough. But the Minister for Defence, a very powerful and important man in this country, had nothing to say about the future. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister advise me of the latest position regarding the operation of rural reconstruction schemes in the various States and in Queensland in particular? Also, is further Commonwealth Government action necessary for the scheme to be implemented in Queensland? Finally, in view of the desperately urgent need for rural reconstruction will the Government continue to treat the matter as one of highest priority? 
-I call the honourable member for Wilmot. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put - 
That the question be now put. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 matters? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Can the Minister for Trade and Industry advise the House as to the present position of meat exports to the United States of America? Does he visualise any problems in Australia fulfilling her meat quota to that country? Will he take all practical steps to see that the quota is met if possible so as to maintain Australia's position in that market, particularly in view of the proposed levies on meat imports to the United Kingdom and the possible entry of the United Kingdom into an enlarged European Economic Community? 
Order! I want the call for order to apply to the whole of the House and not just to the honourable member. 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Bill before the House is for an Act to empower the Commonwealth to guarantee the repayment of loans' to the Australian Wool Board in connection with wool selling centres. I, too, very strongly support the' Bill and the ideas -which it seeks to implement. There is no doubt that the wool industry is in' very great and drastic need of any possible assistance that it can obtain from any field at the present time. I represent a very large area of wool growing country which has suffered perhaps the most severe drought- in its nistory. I know from the practical' experience of my own constituents just what a difficult problem the wool growers of that area and, indeed, the wool growers throughout Australia face at the present time. 
The wool industry is caught up in the cost price squeeze, or between the selling price of the article' and the cost of production. There is no doubt, in my mind that the price factor is' a major one. Nevertheless, the cost factor is also very important and must be looked at. This is the area where the intention of the Bill is directed. It is important that we should consider the whole aspect. 1 feel that it is reasonable to draw attention to the Government's action in connection with the price factor in introducing the Australian Wool Commission. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  said, if I made a correct note, that he could not find any sense of urgency in Canberra. . If he could not find it, then I would say that he has taken very little interest in the efforts that have been made by the Government to introduce the Australian Wool Commission and in the efforts made by the former Minister for Primary Industry - now the Minister for Trade and Industry and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  - at that time.  He  made a prodigious effort and strained every nerve, as did the Government members who were behind him. It was a tremendous effort on his part. Anyone who had any association with the Minister or the people he was dealing with would know that there was a very great sense of urgency. The Minister really ran himself into the ground in an endeavour to establish the Australian Wool Commission. 
The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  who is interjecting, may introduce some ideas of his own. If one looks hard enough one can always find some reason, which is not the right reason, to support one's own argument. It is not hard to find. Any unbiased observer would realise that the Australian Wool Commission was established to help the Australian wool grower, and that ls just what it has been proved to do. People who are well qualified in this field have estimated that the Commission has kept the wool price at least 5c higher than it would have been without the Commission's operation. That would mean a saving, to the Australian wool producer and to the Australian economy of $100m per annum, which is well worth while. I hope that it will be possible to extend that benefit. 
I hope that the confidence which has been shown in the Commission will continue. One of the great needs for the industry, was to have confidence in the price of wool. It did not have the stability that only the Australian Wool Commission has been able to give it. It is very encouraging to see even the small rise which has been shown this week over the improvement - the small improvement - in prices in recent times. The honourable member for Riverina mentioned the free flow of wool. I have heard this mentioned, too. But surely we have had a free flow of wool, and it has not done the job. It is necessary to try to keep up a reasonable flow of wool into the manufacturing areas, and I hope that that will be done. 
The most efficient methods of handling wool certainly must be adopted. I know that this point has been made by each honourable member who has spoken on this Bill. I do not question it at ail. I think it is important. I appreciate very fully that the development of these methods must take place. But one of the factors which must be stressed in connection with the efficiency of handling is that it must be seen and it must be made certain that the savings that come about as the result of this increased efficiency are passed on, to the greatest possible extent, to the very hard pressed wool growers who are so much in need of it. These benefits will be obtained in the maximum degree only if the cost of the complex is kept low. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  pointed out in his second reading speech that the Government is desirous of seeing, and it is tending to see, that the interest rates in particular are kept low for this purpose. Lower interest rates are a very important cost factor in any field. Sometimes they are not given the amount of stress that they could be given in relation to the wool industry generally. I have seen some percentages of cost which can be attributed to interest rates where a wool grower has had to obtain more finance than be would have liked to obtain. It is pleasing to me to see this well recognised economic principle of keeping the cost down as far as possible being applied tq the building of this complex. I hope this complex will be the beginning of others. I hope that it will prove to be successful. 
Another aspect of this wool selling complex is the' promotion of pre-sale objective measurement of wool. This would enable sale by sample. I go along with those who feel that this is long overdue. I know that progress is being made in this direction. But let us look at the wool industry generally. There has not been the progress made in these sorts of ways that perhaps could have been made. No doubt it is a fairly slow process. It is good to see that this is being undertaken at the present time. I believe that if we can get pre-sale objective measurement and core testing of wool, so that it can be sold by sample, it will mean that we will have an efficiency in the handling of our wool that will compare with that of the competitive fibres. 
This is something that we have to match because it becomes more important as time goes on. In days gone by it may not have been so important and therefore not such a matter of urgency. The desperate position of the wool growers certainly demands action on the cost and price fronts, and in regard to the efficiency of the handling and presentation of our wool, which involves the ability to sell it on a sample basis. There could be assistance in saving costs and improving prices because of a more effective presentation of the wool. 
The necessity for selling is, as I see it, a matter of urgency. There is an immediate necessity for this not only because of the immediate advantages, which will accrue but also because of the many expected long term advantages to the industry. In most eases experience will be able to guide us as to the line that we should take. Perhaps we will be able to make improvements as we go. it is very pleasing to see that the first of these wool selling complexes will become operative in the not too distant future. I commend those brokers who are building wool selling facilities at the present time. I hope that the other brokers mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech will co-operate with those brokers already involved. Another point I would like to stress is the economics of this measure. I want to leave some time in this debate to allow someone else to speak. I would like to see the limited time available for this debate spread amongst honourable members as much as possible. I do not want to take up all the time that is available to me in this debate because I understand that someone else wishes to speak. I am very happy to co-operate in this way. In relation to the economies of establishing wool selling complexes, the Minister said in his second reading speech: 
We will, of course, ensure that any problems which might affect the viability of such a proposal have been fully resolved before approval is given for the Wool Board to proceed. The Wool Board is anxious to be in a position to facilitate the development of integrated wool selling complexes where they can be justified on the grounds of increased efficiency and cost savings. 
That is certainly a sound economic approach. I give the Bill my blessing. I hope that the complex will prove to be the success it deserves to be and will be the benefit to the wool growers of this country that we all hope it will be. I commend the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry: Is it a fact that meat imports to the United States of America are virtually under quota due to the existing legislation which can trigger off quotas if specified amounts of imports of meat are exceeded? If so, what action is being taken by the Government to ensure that as far as possible meat exports from Australia to the United States of America are not subjected to the 10 per cent surcharge imposed by the Government of the United States on imports? 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  concentrated in his speech on the morality and immorality of the war in Vietnam. I ask him: Is it immoral to go to the aid of a small South East Asian country which is suffering the savagery of Communist aggression? The Australian Government decided to do that. The honourable mem ber for Wills referred to the great suffering and disabilities which have been inflicted on Australian servicemen in Vietnam. Let him put the blame where it lies, on the Communist Government of North Vietnam. There would have been no need for our forces to go there to defend South Vietnam but for the aggression of the Communist Government of North Vietnam. Every honourable member in this House regrets sincerely the suffering and tragedy of war but it is a fact of life that action must be taken to meet aggression. The honourable member for Wills also wanted to know what right this Government had to call up young men for national service. There is a need to maintain an army in this country. Surely this is well recognised. The honourable member said: 'Why 9 battalions? Why not 19 or some other number?' The number of battalions in our Army has to be related to the population of this country. It has to be a number which will base a sound defence force in this country if and when it is required. Does not the honourable member want an Australian army at all? Is the honourable member prepared to allow the Army to deteriorate to the extent that it will not be a credit to this nation? 
I now want to refer to Australia's commitment to the war in Vietnam. Australia did go into South Vietnam at the request of South Vietnam. It was interesting to hear tonight the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  asking whether there was any letter at all. That certainly came home to roost in the debate that followed his question. The Leader of the Opposition said that the United States of America has been forced to withdraw from South Vietnam. America has not been forced to withdraw from South Vietnam. America and Australia were both keen to get out of South Vietnam at the earliest possible moment consistent with giving to South Vietnam the opportunity to prepare itself - as the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  said - to resist the aggression which was coming across its borders. The Leader of the Opposition said: 'Let us seize the opportunity to bring peace now that there are better relations between the United States and China.' There would have been no opportunity to seize if it had not been for the efforts of the allies in South Vietnam to preserve the freedom and security of that country. However, now that the opportunity is here we will be able to have peace in South Vietnam and at the same time ensure that the South Vietnamese will be better able to look after themselves. 
I hope that the relations between the US and the People's Republic of China will mean a lessening of Communist aggression in South Vietnam and indeed throughout the whole of South East Asia. As the Leader of the Opposition stated, the Australian Labor Party said at its last conference that there was no foreseeable threat to Australia for the next 10 years. If this is so it is due to the fact that the Communist aggression has been stopped in South East Asia. It is all very well to ridicule this suggestion. It has been ridiculed. The domino theory has been ridiculed. I am not directing this comment at the Labor Party in particular but the people who have ridiculed this most emphatically are the Communists, their fellow travellers and sympathisers. There is no question about this. They are the ones who have ridiculed this ever since it was suggested. I still believe with many other people in this country that if South Vietnam had been conquered the same thing would have happened in Laos, Cambodia and so on down the line. The events in Cambodia and Laos have shown conclusively that the Communists were moving into those areas. 
Apart from the protection provided to a small South East Asian country it was in the interests of the security of this country for us to be in South Vietnam. If there had been no containing of that aggression who knows where it would have stopped? What would have been the position when the abortive coup in Indonesia was taking place if that advance of Communists had not been stopped? I know that this has been a subject for ridicule but I do not accept the argument that has been put against it. Who is in a position to say where this aggression would have ended? It is only a matter of supposition and the argument has been used very often by Communists and their sympathisers. History has shown that Communist aggression can be stopped only when it is opposed by sufficient strength to deter further advance. 
This has been proved time and time again. This is what happened in South Vietnam. It also happened in Korea. 
I believe that all that Australia and the United States want is to play a part in giving time to South Vietnam to prepare itself to defend itself against aggression. Surely that is not immoral. The position, as I understand it, has just about been reached, despite the reservations of the honourable member for La Trobe. He said that perhaps South Vietnam is not yet strong enough to protect herself. Only time will tell whether this is so. Despite the frustration and the long period involved the operation of containing Communism in that area has been successful. It has taken a long time and it has been a very difficult war. It has been a difficult war because the Vietcong infiltrated the whole of South Vietnam. Under such circumstances it was the most difficult type of war to wage. In spite of the difficulties it has been waged successfully up to this point of time. I sincerely hope, as I am sure every honourable member hopes, that the improved relations between the US and China will contribute to an easing of the tension in South Vietnam. 
In regard to allied policy I point out that the nations - including Australia - which responded to South Vietnam's request for assistance did so because of their belief that as countries with a special interest in South East Asia they could not allow such aggression to succeed and they could not deny to the people of Sou:h Vietnam the chance to choose their own way of life and their own government. I now turn to the progress that has been made in Vietnamisation. Quite a lot has been done in this direction. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  referred tonight to the effectiveness of Vietnamisation. Last year there were about 4,600 Vietnamese Regional Force troops in 28 companies in Phuoc Tuy province. Of those 28 companies 4 were formed into a Regional Force battalion to replace the Australian battalion withdrawn last year. This process has been going on for some time and it will continue. There were 58 platoons of Vietnam Popular Force troops for village defence commanded by village chiefs. These troops totalled about 2,300. Since then there has been a transfer of further responsibilities to the regional and popular force Vietnamese troops in Phuoc Tuy province. As the Prime Minister has said, the Australian Government will examine means to continue to assist the Vietnamese forces by way of military training, particularly in respect of the joint warfare training centre at Nui Dat. 
In addition, it is important to mention that very effective work has been carried out in South Vietnam in the field of civil aid. Surely this is something of which we can be proud. It is helping a country that needed this type of assistance to develop and to become established in the nations of the world. Civil aid has been given mainly in the fields of education, agriculture, health and public works. In all the discussions that have taken place tonight we have hardly heard anything from honourable members opposite about the great work that the Australian troops and the Australian people have done in that field in South Vietnam. Repairs and extensions to schools have been completed. Officers and men have conducted English classes for adults and children. Hamlet water supply systems, including wind pumps, storage tanks and reticulation, have been constructed in many centres. Experimental farms have been established to assist in diversification in agricultural programmes sponsored by the South Vietnamese Government. This is the sort of work that has been carried out by the Australian and United States forces apart from their work in the military field. 
About  Slim  has been spent on the participation of military personnel of the Australian forces in Vietnam in aid projects such as civil action projects, the jungle warfare training centre and military advisory training teams. Some $50,000 has been spent on the jungle warfare training centre at Nui Dat where the training of South Vietnamese military personnel is under way. This is another aspect of the work of the Australian task force there. They have been helping the South Vietnamese to defend themselves; not to attack anybody else, but simply to preserve their own country. This is the sort of work that has been done there and is going on. I have not heard one word of condemnation of North Vietnamese aggression which surely is the key to this whole situation. 
Let me concentrate on the great assistance that has been rendered by civil aid. Some 600 houses have been constructed for Vietnamese regional and popular forces in the year 1970-71. The aim is to improve the housing conditions of families of members of the forces. In the first year expenditure on special aid was approximately $390,000. Economic aid for Vietnam is provided under both the SEATO Economic Aid Programme and the Colombo Plan. If the Australians, the Americans and their allies were not in South Vietnam to preserve freedom this work could not go on. The country would be under Communist domination and Communist aggression today. I do not mind the Communists looking after their own countries. What I want to see them do, and what I think every right thinking person wants to see them do, is to stay within their own boundaries and prove the value of their Communist doctrine in those countries if they can. That is all we are asking. That is what this Government has aimed to achieve. 
That is all very well about kicking the can. If that is the only answer the honourable member has to what I have put up here, the argument must have been a pretty good one. This is not kicking the can; this is quoting the facts of what has happened in South Vietnam. I believe that the Australian Government and the Australian people can be proud of the part they have played in protecting a small South East Asian country and helping to preserve the security of our own great country. 

 Mr UREN (Reid) . (9.55)- Earlier this evening the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  stated that the Australian forces would be withdrawn from Vietnam by Christmas. Personally, I am grateful. I am grateful for every mother who has a son of military age and who might be eligible to be sent to Vietnam. I am grateful for every sweetheart, for every sister, for every father, for every brother and for every young man who does not have to go to this bottomless pit of human suffering known as Vietnam, because it is to this war, it is to this hell, that we have been sending our young men.. What we have to examine is the cost of our experience, of our experiment in Vietnam, of our insurance policy, in Vietnam, to see whether it was worth the deaths of nearly 500 young Australians. We have to examine whether it was worth maiming nearly 2,500 of our young men. 
We have to examine our position in history and our geographical position in the area and see whether it was in our interests to involve ourselves in the internal affairs of another country in the mainland of Asia. 
These are the things we have to examine, as the United States of America is examining its cost of 50,000 United States lives and S 125,000m since involvement and, worst of all - I say this as an Australian - the deaths of over 1 million Vietnamese. Was our involvement in Vietnam worth it? It seems that the people in the United States think it was not worth it. The great crime of the United States Government - the Government of the most powerful nation on earth - is that it has inflicted over 10.000 million tons of TNT on the people of Vietnam. It has exploded more explosive capacity on little Vietnam than the allies exploded in the whole of the Second World War on the Axis powers. Those men, many of them in the Pentagon lusting for power, wanted to bomb these people back to the Stone Age. That is madness. It is megalomania. 
In fairness to the United States, because there is something great in that nation, not only the students, academics and people from all walks of life but also parliamentarians from both sides of the Congress have examined their guilt, and 58 per cent of the American people have said that it was immoral that the United States should have involved itself in Vietnam at all. Parliamentarians from both sides of the fence, Republicans and Democrats alike, have condemned the barbarism and the action of the United States Government, whether it be a Democrat or Republican administration, in Vietnam. But I ask: Has the Australian Government examined its guilt? Have the conservative forces throughout Australia examined their guilt? Why is it that in this country businessmen, newspaper men, students and academics can examine their guilt and say that they were wrong, but not the parliamentarians. 

 Senator Hannaford God bless him was the only member of the Government ranks, whether it be in State legislature or Commonwealth, whether it be in the Senate or in this House, to have the courage to examine his guilt. Others take a monolithic position that there is no wrong, like Disraeli's political dictum: 'It does not matter what we say so long as we all say the same thing'. This is the sickness of this Government. The Government cannot examine its guilt and the crimes it has committed by becoming involved in Asia because of a fear of the Asian hordes to the north. The Government wanted the United States to involve itself in Asia and to stay in Asia, and that is why it committed Australian troops to Vietnam. There has been a lot of hypocrisy about some letter that is being peddled. 
It has been put on public record by men such as Dean Rusk and Cabot Lodge that the United States both privately and publicly put pressure on their NATO and SEATO allies to give them military support in Vietnam, but they all refused except the Australian Government and a few lonely New Zealanders. No other country committed military forces to Vietnam. We did so because we believed that this commitment would act as an insurance policy. This Government has to examine whether that insurance policy has paid off. I say to every member of the Government that he will have blood on his hands for the rest of his life. Every Prime Minister, every member of the Government, every member of the Liberal and Country Parties since we became involved in Vietnam will be remembered by me because of his lack of moral courage. They all have blood on their hands because they committed young men to Vietnam as a very doubtful insurance policy. The Government had built up some mythical fear that the Asian hordes would come down and threaten us in the future. Where do you draw the line in Vietnam or do you fight them on our shores? 
Let us examine not only the great loss of life but also the cost of our involvement in Vietnam. The war has cost the United States $ 125,000m. It has cost this country over $200m, and that is a very conservative figure. Let us examine what the cost to the non-Communist world may be. America did not stop bombing North Vietnam and sit down at the conference table because it thought that was a good thing. As I said, it had spent $ 125,000m on the war. In 1968, because the United States had 500,000 troops in Vietnam, the war was costing that country $30,000m a year. General Westmoreland said in his infamous report that he needed another 206,000 troops for military victory in Vietnam. What he forgot to mention was that it would cost another $ 10,000m to S12,000m to finance the commitment of these troops. 
The records show that at that time there was a run on gold. The 6 European powers which control the gold standard met and decided that they had to create a twolevel price for gold, because $US35 no longer equalled the value of 1 ounce of gold. The United States dollar was under pressure. As I said before, the United States Government was divided. It could not put any legislation through Congress to make internal economic remedy. It took President Johnson, that great manipulator, 2 years to get through the 10 per cent surcharge tax, and even then it was on the understanding that the Government would cut its expenditure by S6,000m in that financial year. There was a threat to the United States dollar. The 'Wall Street Journal' said that it was about time the American people were told the truth about the war in Vietnam because the economy was crumbling about their feet. We found the financial barons saying: 'Let us get out of Vietnam. Let us stop the war'. So President Johnson sacked General Westmoreland, he stopped bombing North Vietnam and he agreed to sit down at the conference table with the National Liberation Front. 
The tactical position in the United States then changed to what Roger Hillsman, the former Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs in the John Kennedy Administration, called the low cost and long haul policy. In other words, America wanted to save the lives of its servicemen in Vietnam; so it withdrew its troops and put Asian troops in their places. Without any reduction in the intensity of the war and taking advantage of technological advances the United States changed its role to a bombing one. But it is interesting to note that the United States was worried about its balance of payments being under pressure because of the expenditure on the war in Vietnam. It was completely undermining the value of the 
United States dollar. It is against this background that President Nixon had to make his recent decision to levy a 10 per cent surcharge on all imports. There has been a further undermining of the value of the U.S. dollar. After the Second World War, the United States held 56 per cent of the world's gold in Fort Knox. Today West Germany, whom we defeated in the war, holds more gold than docs the US. The gold reserve of the United States threatens to fall to less than $ 10,000m. The United States has a crisis in its balance of trade. Our trade could be threatened if the United States cuts off trade with Japan, which is at present our greatest customer. If the United States cuts off trade with Japan, Japan in turn might have to restrict trade with us. We might then find that the stupidity of our involvement in this cesspool of Vietnam, this quagmire of Vietnam, has not only cost us the lives of men but has threatened our financial resources. We cannot afford to jeopardise our human and financial resources. 1 ask the Government to examine its guilt, its stupidity and blundering in becoming involved in this cheap and degrading insurance policy. It is gambling with the lives of our young men. I am not talking about politics but about a matter of morality. Why has this Government adopted a monolithic approach? Why has not one supporter of the Government questioned whether the Government's policies on Vietnam have been wrong? Why has not one supporter of the Government had the courage to speak out publicly against the Government's policy? Why have honourable members opposite been so monolithic in their support when in the United States both Republicans and Democrats alike have opposed their Government's policy, whether it be Democratic policy or Republican policy? The Government should at least start to examine the failure of its policies. If it does not there is no hope for it, for the people or for honourable members opposite as parliamentarians. 
Order! The honourable member's time expired. 
Undoubtedly, the greatest national domestic problem facing Australia today is the problem of inflation. I commend the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Government for recognising this in the Budget and for taking measures to bring inflation under control while at the same time maintaining economic development and a high standard of employment. But I do emphasise the necessity for the Government to advance perhaps even further in the measures that are being taken to control inflation. I doubt whether the Government has gone far enough in limiting its own expenditure and in limiting the growth and, consequently, the cost of the Public Service. We know that in most fields the Public Service does a good job. But, at the same time, there is a limit to the proportion of people who can be employed in the Public Service in relation to the population as a whole. I think that that proportion must be watched now even more closely than it has been in the past. It is essential that further investigations of the need to control the rate of growth of our Public Service should be undertaken. 
Another point which I wish to make regarding Government expenditure is in relation to the necessity to prevent the overlapping of expenditure on certain matters by Commonwealth and State governments. I can cite an example of this in relation to my home State, Queensland. I refer to dual electoral rolls. In some States a common electoral roll is maintained, but in Queensland we have a State electoral roll and a Federal electoral roll. I do not think that there is any reason for these separate rolls. I know that this is a proposal which probably should come from the States because they should take advantage of the opportunity, if they can, to use Federal electoral rolls. There is no reason why Federal electoral rolls should not be used. I do not know why some honourable members are expressing hilarity about this matter. My proposal is one which would save public funds. This would be of benefit to the community at large. I would like to see some consultation between the Federal Government and State governments on this and other matters. I know of no reason why the same electoral roll cannot be used for State and Federal purposes. In the case of Queensland, it would be a matter merely of altering the subdivisions within Commonwealth electoral divisions to coincide with State electoral boundaries. In this way, the need for a separate State roll in Queensland would be overcome. 
One of the aspects of Government expenditure to be noted is that in many cases no doubt exists that the Government can prove the need and indeed the economy of the works that it undertakes. I am proud to be a member of the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works. That Committee has had many references and has investigated many proposals. No doubt it will investigate many more. In most cases I find in these references that the need for this work and the economy of it can be justified. But at the same time there must be some limitation. 
Consideration has to be given to the extent to which governments should advance their own progress, particularly at a time of full employment when there is competition for labour. One of the reasons why Government expenditure should be limited is that if the private sector of the economy, containing a large section of the population, is enjoying very good condi tions, and it is competing with the Government for the labour available to extend development on its own projects, there is a tendency for employers to outbid each other for the labour available. The Government will try to get the labour it requires. This situation tends to force up the bidding and the amount of money paid for services. I am not opposed to a reasonable and effective wage being paid, but once the increase in wages goes beyond the rate of productivity the wage earner perhaps benefits less than anyone from it. It is certain that such an increase in costs as a result of this rise will exceed the increase in the rate of productivity. 
The Arbitration Commission can scarcely find that an industry cannot afford to pay what it is in fact paying. This is one of the reasons why we have a rise in costs. I believe that the blame for this falls on the shoulders of those who are prepared to grant concessions beyond those required for the benefit of the worker and the community. This also has a very serious effect on exporters generally, and that includes the great primary producing industries of this country, most sections of which are suffering very severely, or have suffered over the years, from adverse seasonal conditions and low world prices for many of their products. Those on fixed incomes, including pensioners, have been seriously affected. 
I am very pleased to see that the pensioners will receive a well deserved increase in their pensions from the Budget. I warmly welcome the increase of $1.25 which has been allocated to them. This much needed increase is in a field which will not contribute to the inflationary trend which exists today. But, once again, if our wage structure is increased over and above the rate of productivity in this country then that pension increase will be eroded much faster than it would otherwise have been eroded. I commend the Government generally on the increase in social welfare expenditure, including repatriation expenditure which this year will reach a record figure of $2,095m, some $268m more than last year. Even though the total amount spent on social welfare is the largest single item in Government expenditure, few people will disagree with the Government's determination to give this increased assistance to people who need and deserve it. 
Those of us who represent rural areas will recognise that today we have a 2 level economy. That is one way of describing the position which exists in Australia. Due to drought and low prices the rural economy, including the country towns, is suffering very severe financial difficulty. In many parts of my electorate business people and primary producers are having the greatest difficulty in carrying on. This fact must be recognised. The position is in direct contrast to that which applies in a great proportion of metropolitan Australia. So we find that on the one hand we need a decreasing degree of Government expenditure in those areas where the economy is booming and for the self-same reason we need an increase in Government expenditure in that section of Australia where the economy is depressed. 
There are ways in which this can be done. It could be achieved in part, anyway, by greater decentralisation of government departments. Something has been done in this direction but more could be done. Officers of the Department of Labour and National Service and of the Department of Social Services could be appointed, for example, in the larger country towns to undertake the duties of those Departments. Responsible people, including ministers of religion and people who have interested themselves in the welfare of those who deserve consideration, have urged me that this should be done so that people may have greater access to departmental representatives. Lack of such access is one of the handicaps which people in rural areas have to suffer. They should not have to suffer more than is absolutely necessary. I urge the Government to give consideration to this matter. 
The wool industry has Deen extremely hard hit by drought and low prices. I press the Government to grant assistance to wool growers to the extent of a guaranteed average price of 40c per lb for wool. 1 still hold the view that assistance to that extent is warranted to enable the wool industry to operate economically and, more particularly, to allow rural reconstruction in the wool producing areas to be implemented. Rural reconstruction is one of the very great necessities that confront Australia today. No one knows what the markets will be in the future. One can only guess. The price of butter is an example of how things can change. Changes do not take place overnight. So much of Australia is suited for wool production that it is in the national interest that these areas be reconstructed. The Budget allows about $60m for the deficiency payment that has been granted to the wool industry, but even if it were double that amount it would still be a sound economic principle from  a  national point of view to preserve our greatest rural industry with its vital contribution to the national export income. 
I would like to see the re-chartering of the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia to enable long term low interest loans to be provided at least for the hard core debts which our primary producers are carrying at the moment. I have heard stated and am well aware of the advantages of long term loans but because of the desperate situation of our primary producers the hard core debt of primary industry should be catered for not only with long term but also with low interest loans. Long term loans in other areas of advancement could perhaps be at a higher rate of interest. I continue to stress the need for this type of finance to be provided. 
I commend the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on his undertaking a review of tariffs. People are apt to forget the cost to the Australian community of tariff protection as against the cost of protection for primary industry. If one examines the costs on both sides and the benefits that have been obtained one will find good value in giving primary industry the amount of protection which it is receiving and even more. I do not object to reasonable tariffs and the basis upon which they are provided. I think that the review is long overdue and I am very happy to know that it is being undertaken. 
The contribution to the wool industry is regarded by some people as being of benefit only to the wool growers, but it goes much further than that. The viability of country towns is maintained through the wool growers. Business men are able to carry on providing people with services and are able to make a reasonable degree of profit. Unless they can do that. th, town business men cannot carry on. I have many examples of the great difficulties they are suffering at the present time. I believe that stabilised prices in primary industry contribute to decentralisation. It is probably the cheapest and most effective way in which decentralisation can be promoted. We hear a lot about the cost of decentralisation but we do not hear so much about the cost of centralisation. I cannot stress too often or emphatically enough the difference between the cost of providing services and setting up people in the major cities and the cost of setting them up in country towns. If one deducts the difference from the cost of stabilising our rural industries one finds that it is a reasonable thing to do. 1 should like to touch, for a moment, on proposals put forward by the Labor Party in connection with the stabilisation of the wool industry and the deficiency payments. It has been suggested that this assistance should be given only to those who have low incomes. What would be the position of the wool grower who has experienced 10 years of drought followed by one good year? Would he be denied the benefit of this assistance? Under Labor's proposal he would be deprived of assistance and would have no chance of reducing his debt. I ask members of the Labor Party: Is this principle to be adopted in relation to assistance to the sugar industry and the wheat industry? I take it that every primary producer in those industries would have to prove, under Labor's scheme as ennunciated that he was in dire need. If this is not to be the case, why has the wool industry been selected for special attention? 
Every person who has been engaged in primary industry, and not too many members of the Opposition have been so engaged, must realise that effective stabilisation of a primary industry must take into account the total production. Indeed, many woo] growers are strongly of the opinion that acquisition of the total clip is the most satisfactory way of effectively stabilising the wool industry. Would the price of wool acquired by a Labor government be related to the income of the wool grower who supplied the wool? What is Labor's rural policy? The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is quoted as saying that Labor did not have a primary industry programme that gave a comprehensive and integrated approach. 'What we have', he said, 'is a loose patchwork of totally unrelated propositions.' The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  when asked to comment on this statement when he appeared on the television programme This Day Tonight' said: 
I find the statement incredible. It is also untrue. It shows, in fact, the colossal ignorance of a person who should know better. 
However the amendments moved by the honourable member for Oxley were accepted by the Labor Party Conference. Asked to comment on this, the honourable member for Dawson said: . . 
I find it very hard to believe, except perhaps that very few members of the Conference know anything about rural matters. 
I could continue in this strain for some time. However I have said enough to show the confusion of the Labor Party with respect to its rural policy. While there is utter confusion regarding Labor's rural policy there is no doubting that Labor, would introduce a 35-hour week. That would be about the last straw in the economic problems facing primary industry. It would be of no advantage to the worker as it would aggravate inflation to an extent that we have not experienced before in Australia. It would add to the inflationary trends and it would be to the great disadvantage of every Australian. This would apply not only in its inflationary effect but rising costs could and would in turn bring about a big increase in unemployment. 
I want now to refer to one or two aspects of the Budget which will fall heavily on the rural community which is already suffering great financial disability. First, I refer to the increased postal and telephone charges. I remind the House that primary producers are dependent largely on telephones to conduct their business in an efficient way. A large proportion of their telephone business would be conducted through trunk line facilities. I suggest, therefore, that trunk line call charges should be examined in relation to local call charges. Further, an examination should be made of the very limited number of subscribers available under the extended local service area system in some rural areas. In view of the increased charges I repeat my appeal to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  to allow a local access call to ali subscribers to a town where medical and professional services are available. The lower rental fee for telephones in these areas does not nearly compensate the subscribers for having to do practically all their business by means of trunk line calls. In my mind an injustice is being done to those telephone subscribers whose ELSA range does not include a town where medical and professional services are available. 
I draw attention to another injustice which I believe applies to people who own television sets and who are outside the range of reasonable television reception. They have to pay a full licence fee even though they may receive a programme only  5  per cent or  10  per cent of the time. There is no certainty when a programme will be able to be received. The Queensland South Western Local Authorities Development Association made what I regard as a reasonable request, namely, that no television licence be required beyond  100  miles from a transmitting station. In view of the fact that the Postmaster-General's Department will not go beyond a distance of  60  miles in assessing the number of people who will be served by a high power television station, surely a limit of  100  miles is a large enough margin to apply to ensure that reception will, of necessity, be unsatisfactory. When low power stations are installed it would be reasonable to apply a distance limit in relation to the coverage provided by this class of television station. 
Another section of the Budget which will fall heavily on primary producers is that which refers to increased petrol prices. Primary producers living out of town have to use motor vehicles for all classes of transport requirements. This increase in price comes at a time when primary producers are having the utmost difficulty in maintaining economic survival. However, I commend the Government on some other aspects of the Budget and should like quickly to mention the increase in the maximum deduction allowable for education purposes. It is not nearly enough, but ft is a step in the right direction. I commend the increased assistance to the Royal Flying Doctor Service. I had intended to refer to local authority finance which will have to be supplemented by CommonWealth finance if local authorities are to carry out their functions and responsibilities, but my time is limited. 
I cannot conclude, however, without referring to the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in relation to 

 Mr Hawke and to the way in which he pandered to him. This revealed who is the real leader, the master mind and the power behind the throne in the Labor Party. Although I should like to mention many other matters I do not have the time. Generally speaking I commend the Budget as an honest attempt to control inflation. I believe that if the Government continues on in this way there will be no doubt who the people of Australia want to govern them. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education and Science been drawn to a statement by the Catholic Archbishop of Hobart that some church schools will be closed due to insufficient government support? Can he advise what amount per capita of federal financial assistance has been requested by the church authorities? Has there been any indication that church schools in other States could also be forced to close? If so, will the Government investigate the position in conjunction with the States with the object of averting what could develop into a serious education problem for Australia? 
Order! The discussion of the matter of public importance has now concluded. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether in view of the increasing body of opinion among wool growers that the acquisition and disposal of the whole of the Australian wool clip is the only satisfactory and effective way of marketing wool, the Minister will advise how soon the Government will be in a position to appoint a statutory authority to undertake the marketing of wool if requested to do so by the industry and if that request is acceptable to the Government? Will the Minister advise the House of the progress being made towards enabling objective measurement of the whole of the Australian wool clip to be undertaken and, consequently, its sale by sample thus eliminating one of the great disadvantages wool suffers by comparison with synthetic fibres? 
My question is  addressed to the Treasurer. He will recall that late last year the Government announced that it intended to introduce a rural loans insurance corporation to enable farmers to have greater availability of funds on long term conditions. Can the Treasurer say when the Government intends to implement this policy, or is the view that is being freely expressed in country areas correct, that is, that the trading banks have not been co-operative and that the scheme therefore will not come into being? 
While I am disappointed that the postal and telephone charges have had to be increased. 1 realise that the Postmaster-General's Department has been faced with very greatly increased costs largely due to new wage awards. This was pointed out, of course, by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in his second reading speech. I commend the Minister on the manner in which he put this angle when he said: 
The community, and particularly the housewife, has come to realise that increased wages not associated with increased productivity give a very, fictitious feeling of increased prosperity. 
This is something that has been said on a number of occasions but I think it is worth emphasising because it seems that a lot of people do not readily appreciate the soundness of this case. I suggest that the people who have the least to gain by some of these wage increases are the people to whom the increases are granted because once wage increases go beyond increased productivity it is almost impossible to prevent their being offset by the increased costs and charges that they generate. It is not a matter of requiring or even desiring that wages be reduced or maintained for that reason only. It is in the interests of the whole community that those wages be kept within the scope of increased productivity. The Minister went on to point out that certain members of the Opposition and leaders of the trade union movement, while understanding this situation, never express it because they feel that not expressing it brings political advantage to them. I believe this to be so and I would hope that as we face perhaps more difficult days to come we will get a more realistic approach to this matter by members of the Opposition, the trade union movement and the community in general. 
One aspect of the telephone administration in relation to which I compliment the Minister and the Government is the introduction of a policy to provide free of cost in certain areas a telephone connection within a radius of IS miles from an exchange and to maintain that line free of cost to the subscriber. This is a recognition of the necessity to have a satisfactory telephonic communication when the provision of that standard of telephone communication is beyond the capacity of many people in those areas. To fulfil the very desirable aim of providing subscriber trunk dialling services to those areas it was necessary to upgrade the standard of telephone lines. This necessity was recognised by the Government. As I say, I pay full credit to the Minister and the Government for recognising this and for the introduction of that policy. 
It is very unfortunate however that owing to the lack of finance - this was the fundamental cause - and owing to the lack of technicians and equipment there has been a very big delay in the provision of these benefits to many of our people. I did not catch the interjection just made by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  but I am quite confident that had the Opposition been in office this type of consideration would never have been shown to the rural people and this policy would never have been introduced. We will wait for another 20 years, and if the Opposition is in office then we will see how good it is. It is very easy for members of the Opposition to say what they propose to do.  Mr Speaker,  if you would like to take the trouble to add up the cost of all the benefits that they are going to provide it would be just fantastic. It would be impossible to provide all these things because they run on ad infinitum. Honourable members opposite are prepared to give anything and everything that anybody wants them to provide as long as they feel they will catch a vote. There is no responsibility in the Opposition. I did not intend to raise this sort of argument, but if honourable members opposite want to discuss the matter on these lines I am quite prepared to discuss it with them. 
But I know what you are aiming at. People in my electorate and in many other rural areas have a common approach to many of the problems which confront them. Earlier my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  outlined some of the difficulties with which people in the rural areas are faced. We have formed a telephone committee. I wonder whether the Opposition has one, if it is so good that it has agreed to all these things. If the Opposition has such a committee I wonder what it has done because I have not heard of it. Let honourable members opposite come out with their ideas, and if they are practical I am sure that the Government and the Minister will be prepared to listen to them. It would be a refreshing exercise to hear them showing some consideration for rural industry. 
As I have pointed out, there is a necessity for people in rural areas to have a high standard of telephonic communication that will enable them to participate in subscriber trunk dialling. In this field 1 think it is worth noting that the benefits that have been gained by the provision of automatic services and the upgrading of lines have meant a very great saving to the Government and to the people of Australia. In addition it has made it possible to cope with the expensive increase in telephonic communication. This would not have been possible without this programme of progress which has been and is being implemented by the Government. As I say, I regret that the Government has not made faster progress- I am very concerned - this was mentioned by the honourable member for Kennedy - about the delay which is occurring in the provision of telephone services to many people who are very dependent upon such services. People who run businesses in country areas have no alternative to telephonic communication. I feel this matter should be given even greater consideration by the Government. It should find some means by which this long delay in providing services to some areas can be lessened and so encourage people to feel that they will be able to get telephonic communication within a reasonable time. 
I move on to licences for television receivers. I draw the attention of the Minister, as I have done before, to what I regard as an injustice in this field, that is, requiring a full licence fee even for a set which is located beyond the limits of the area which the Department considers can be effectively served by a television station. I have not been able to ascertain with accuracy the area which has been decided upon but I understand that a high power television station is regarded as capable of serving an area within a radius of perhaps only 60 miles. I believe that in some cases the Department does not think that a station has an effective range of even 60 miles. In some cases though, I do know that the service does go beyond that particularly if people have higher antennas and boosters. One may be able to get some reception from an area outside that but surely there has to be a limit. Surely there is no justice in charging for a service which is quite unsatisfactory. The objective should be to define the limits beyond which there is no charge. 
I would like to point out that in my own area the Queensland South Western Local Authorities Development Association some years ago made what I regard as a very reasonable request to the PostmasterGeneral that television sets located 100 miles or more from a transmitting station be exempt from licence fees. 1 know the answer has been that it is very hard to define exactly where a set will pick up television reception and where it will not. This may be so but when we get to a distance of 100 miles I doubt whether any expert in the Department would be prepared to say that a person could reasonably expect to get reasonable reception over that distance. So I urge the PostmasterGeneral to give consideration to this position which has caused concern in my area and which I believe would not cost it so much to rectify. I believe the Department would be very reluctant to enforce a charge under these circumstances. The Department should consider a limit of at least 100 miles from a television station as being the area beyond which people should be exempt from licence fees. No-one beyond that distance can depend on getting any reception. They do not know whether they will get any at all but, in some instances, because of the lack of alternative entertainment they provide themselves with a set and hope to get some sort of reception sometimes. This does not cost anybody anything and I do not think a licence should be required in those areas. 
Another matter with regard to television which T would like to mention at this stage is that there are to be - and I here commend the Government and the Minister - a number of low powered television stations in the outlying areas of Queensland. I am very pleased that some 10 of these stations will be in my electorate of Maranoa. However, we are concerned about the delay. We know there are problems in relation to it. These stations will overcome some of the difficulties of these people who have sets but who are not getting satisfactory reception. At least it will do that much although it would not cover by any means all the problems associated with television reception in these areas. I suggest to the Postmaster-General that some consideration should be given to establishing a reasonable radius around those stations within which a television licence is required. While I am dealing with television - and it is a pretty important subject in most of my area because it is one way people have of getting entertainment and keeping in touch with the topics of the day - let me say that these people value it very much more highly than people in the closely settled areas who are provided with such splendid television service by this Government 
I want to refer now to an application made by Darling Downs Television Limited for a licence to provide a translator station at Roma. I have taken up this matter with the Postmaster-General. The application was made in December last year and so far no decision has been made on it. I urge the Postmaster-General to see that this company gets a reply to the application it has made. Whatever may be the technical problems in relation to a station of this kind I believe that the application should be given some consideration. Such a station would help to provide a service which would cover a lot of people who are paying this fee for which provision is made in the Bill. They would be able then to get a television service which would at least keep them on an even footing with the other people who are paying these television licence fees and who are getting such excellent service from the Department. 
I do not think that contribution adds much to the debate. In the time I have left 1 would like to turn to telephones and the problems that are confronting people in many areas. An angle to this to which I want to draw attention is the disadvantage to those people who do not have a local call service to their business or professional centre. This adds very greatly to their costs compared with those people who have that advantage. Many people in outlying areas do enjoy this so it is a comparatively small number of people which is involved. To overcome this problem, I suggest again that the PostmasterGeneral give consideration to providing a local call service for all subscribers to an area which has medical and professional services available. I do this because there is an inequity here and I do not think that the cost, despite arguments to the contrary, would be nearly as heavy to provide this local call as is sometimes suggested. Perhaps there could be an enlargement of the local service areas. Although there is a reduction in the fees, the reduction by no means compensates those people for the lesser number of calls that they can make on local call charges. I believe this is another problem that needs consideration. What I am looking for is equity for people in most of the areas of the State. 
I would also suggest that consideration be given to uniform telephone charges. Some figures have been taken out on this. They might be a little out of date now because there has been considerable variation in charges since these estimates were made. But at that time, a year or so ago, an estimate of cost, even if local calls remained as they then were - that is, at 4c - was that standard trunk line calls may be in the vicinity of 60c. If all calls were made on a standard rate the amount that was required at that time - and we know it has to be increased under present conditions - would have been about 12ic. 
One of the advantages of the introduction of standard telephone charges would be to increase decentralisation- It would he of very great assistance and encouragement to the establishment of industry in our country towns. Of course, one of the arguments that is raised so often in the promotion of industry in country towns is the very heavy telephone costs with which industry is confronted because most of its business then has to be done on trunk line charges. When making these requests, our outlook should not bc confined to benefits to those areas being served but to national improvement and benefit which would be derived from distributing the population of this country and getting industry as far as possible out into our country towns. We will have to encourage this process. It is quite obvious it will not proceed unless we give encouragement in every way because there are many disadvantages in the establishment of industry in country areas. I suggest that the Postmaster-General give very serious consideration to the standard trunk line charges. I hope that in his reply he might have some comments to make on that matter. 
I repeat that I realise the problem with which the Postmaster-General has been confronted. I know that news of the costs has been received with a good deal of concern by people in the hard hit primary industries but one has to recognise that if the Postmaster-General's Department is run at a loss the money has to be found somewhere. If it is not made up from charges by that Department it has to be found from Consolidated Revenue. 1 hope that in the present circumstances very serious consideration will be given to the points I have made which will be of benefit in the first instance to our country towns and rural areas and in the second instance to the nation. One has only to consider the cost of providing services and setting people up in our overcrowded cities compared with such establishment in country towns to realise that there is an unseen benefit which can be obtained from this type of project. So I urge PostmasterGeneral to give the matter earnest consideration. I trust that from that consideration will come some of those benefits which members of my Party have so long endeavoured to obtain for the people living in the country towns and rural areas of the Commonwealth. 
 I have received advice from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that he has appointed  Mr Lloyd  to be a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits in place of  Mr Robinson. 
Order: There is no substance in the point of order. 
Since  Mr Hawke  was elected  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions with the support of the extreme left wing we have seen a complete reversal of the policy of his predecessor, Albert Monk, who steadfastly held that there should be no involvement by trade unions in purely political strikes. There are inherent dangers when one country endeavours to dictate to another country how it should run its internal affairs. Yet  Mr Hawke  seems to believe that he can sit in his office in the Tades Hall in Melbourne and not only dictate to Australians whether or not they should see a particular sporting event but also to dictate to other countries how they should run their affairs. 
Before the rugby tour he threatened international airlines with the loss of their franchise in Australia. He threatened a ban on the internal airlines if they dared fly the Springboks. He threatened a ban on services and refreshments to hotels and motels in which the Springboks stayed. What son of a democracy does he think this country is? He took this action in defiance of the wish of 85 per cent of the Australian people that the rugby tour should go on and in defiance of the decision of the duly elected Government that the tour should go on. 
Is it any wonder that the Australian people fear the power that this man has taken unto himself? If we claim the right to dictate how the South Africans should handle their internal problems, cannot other countries by the same premise place boycotts and sanctions on Australia because they might claim that they do not like the way we treat our Aboriginals or that they do not like our immigration policy? Australians would be the first to object to such a situation and one cannot blame the South Africans for reacting in a similar way. 
The friendship of South Africa is important to Australia. With England going into the European Common Market it is not only important that we sell wheat to Communist China, about which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has such an obsession, but it is also important that we find new trade outlets elsewhere, including South Africa. The actions of  Mr Hawke  and his unions and the actions of the demonstrators are hardly likely to win us friends in that country. But there are other reasons why Australia needs a friendly non-Communist government in South Africa. 
The Cape route is our main trade lifeline with Europe. Establishment of Soviet naval bases on a Communist African shore or a government in South Africa sympathetic to the cause of Communist powers would enable our economic jugular vein to be cut if the Communist powers decided to step up the Cold War, and we must have short memories indeed if we forget the Russian blockade of Berlin. Communist China has troops and engineers in Tanzania ostensibly to build a railway line, and Chinese Commuist subversion, terror, investment and influence in Zambia, Uganda, the Congo and Guinea are a continuing threat to any hopes of African democracy. It is not surprising that Russia and China would like to have a black dominated government in South Africa over which they could exercise the same strong influence as they do in other black African countries. So white antiCommunist South Africa must be got rid of, and it is aimed to do this in 2 ways. First, South Africa must be discredited in the eyes of the world, and the Communists are using South Africa's policy of apartheid to achieve this. Their second tactic is to employ terrorist activities similar to the ones which they themselves have found so successful in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. 
Whilst in Rhodesia I held in my hands a Chinese mortar and other weapons captured from the terrorists, which were exactly the same as those I had seen and held in my hands in Vietnam which had been captured from the North Vietnamese. In South Africa I saw photographs of Mao Tse-tung, the little Red Book and various travel documents which proved that terrorists had been taken from Africa to China, Russia and Communist East Europe for training in terrorist activities. I have photographs here which clearly prove this, and I can show them to any honourable member if he wishes to see them later. We as Australians will ignore these things at our peril. It is true that South Africa does not have democracy in the form in which we practise it in Australia, but then neither do Russia and China and half the other countries of the world. There is no doubt that the result of the introduction of one man one vote in South Africa would result in immediate black rule for that country and many fear that this would be followed by inter-racial slaughter and inter-tribal slaughter, such as has happened in the Congo, Biafra and other African countries. 
In any event, there undoubtedly would be in South Africa a government over which the Communist powers could exercise greater control than at present, and I submit that this would not be in Australia's interest. That the new regime would be a dictatorship seems likely as none of the African states, once given democracy, have retained it for long; most are now dictatorships. 
South Africa has decided on a policy of separate development as an answer to its problems. It would not be my answer, and it is the exact opposite to the policy we are implementing in New Guinea. But New Guinea is not our country. We can walk out and leave the people of New Guinea to work out their own solutions to their problems. But to the white people of South Africa the Republic is their country; the ancestors of some have lived there approximately for 400 years. They cannot leave without migrating to a foreign land. They think that they have found a solution to their problem, and it is their problem. If they are wrong they will suffer, not us. After spending 3 weeks in that country I would not presume to tell the people how they should solve the problem. How much less competent to do so are  Mr Hawke  and other left wing demonstrators who have never bothered to make the effort to go to South Africa to see for themselves. 
Sitting suspended from 5.54 to  8  p.m. (Quorum formed.) 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer and is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Kingston. Has the Treasurer received numerous requests from people living in isolated areas asking for an increase in the taxation deduction for education expenses so that that deserving section of the community may be allowed to recover financial stability after years of drought and when, because of favourable seasonal conditions, they might again be in the position of paying tax even though their income- 
The Government rejects the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The rural reconstruction employment training scheme is designed to be part and parcel of the rural reconstruction scheme. There may be need for unemployment benefits or for opportunities to be given to other people outside this scheme but that is another matter. The honourable member for Dawson talks about a comprehensive scheme. This proposal could be part of a comprehensive scheme if such a comprehensive scheme were needed in the total concept. I remind the honourable member for Dawson that the record of the Government in the matter of unemployment is a very good one. It is a better one than Labor governments have offered in most cases. It bears favourable comparison with schemes operated in other countries. 
Let me indicate what other countries have done in this respect. Have they decided that the schemes or the ideas that have been proposed by the Opposition on this occasion represent the right way in which to tackle this problem? Let us look at what has happened in other countries. Rural retraining schemes for displaced rural labour, according to the information that I have before me, have been introduced in many countries including Germany, the Netherlands, the United States of America, Canada, Japan, France, Norway and Sweden. Yet, the honourable member for Dawson says that we must have a comprehensive scheme. I suggest that his proposal is simply a way of grasping a poor opportunity to offer criticism of the Government at the expense of Australia's rural unemployed and to endeavour to delay the application of this excellent scheme. The only 2 Opposition spokesmen who know anything about rural industry - and they do not know much - have not been able to make out a real case against this scheme. They have tried very hard and I suppose that one can always forgive them when they have tried as hard as they have done on this occasion. So this is the object of the amendment, and the Government rejects it. 
The rural reconstruction employment training scheme is an important part of the whole of rural reconstruction. The statement which was presented by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  clearly sets out that opportunities will be provided for those people who are unemployed now as a result of conditions which are operating in rural industry, including technological change which has been admitted by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  as being one of those conditions. 
You keep to the things that you do know; you are not much good on them either. As far as I am concerned, it is a matter for regret that circumstances have created the need for this type of opportunity to be given to many of these people. It would be better if the necessity for this scheme could have been avoided because our rural areas and country towns have a great need for population. But with the circumstances now operating which, in the main, are very largely well beyond the control of this Government, something has to be done about them. 
Very often members of the Opposition accuse the Government, particularly members of the Country Party, of representing anything but people. In this scheme, we show our sympathy for the people. This scheme might be against the best interests of the Country Party from a population point of view. From a purely political angle, it might be that we would wish to keep as many people in the country as we can. But we cannot continue to keep people in the country unless reasonable opportunities are available there for them. 
That does not mean that we will not take every opportunity to try to promote regional development. I hope that the Government will encourage the establishment of industry in country towns so that opportunities for employment will be available there for these people who are so much in need of employment opportunities. Honourable members opposite should realise that this scheme, which has the support of the Country Party, is in the interests of those people represented mainly by the Country Party. Certainly these people are represented more effectively by the Country Party than they were when they were represented to their disadvantage, by honourable members on the Opposition benches. 
The proposed rural reconstruction employment training scheme is a voluntary one. The opportunity is given to these people. They do not need to take part in the scheme if they do not wish to. Let me emphasise that proposals similar to this scheme have been introduced in so many other countries which have recognised as Australia now realises the need for such a scheme. Having recognised the need for such a scheme, the Government has lived up to its responsibilities and has made it a part of our rural reconstruction scheme. This scheme does emphasise the need to encourage industry in our rural towns. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had mentioned that the Country Party represents most of the people who will be affected by this scheme and that they are effectively represented by the Party. There are also members of the Liberal Party who represent rural areas and they too give much more effective representation than do members of the Opposition. I also mentioned that the scheme emphasises the need to encourage industry in rural areas. I think this is something that should be given very serious consideration by the Government even if it is done at some cost to the community at large because while we recognise the necessity of providing employment for these people it is essential that they be given an opportunity to live and earn a reasonable income in the areas from which they come. It is much more beneficial to the nation at large if employment can be found for them in the areas from which they come. I also spoke about the development of schemes of this type in other countries. I think this is something that can stand some emphasis. 
As I said before, and I think it is worth repeating, I sympathise with those people in the country towns - and I know many of them - who are having great difficulty as the result, to a great degree at any rate, of the lack of prosperity in rural industries. But as I pointed out this is another aspect of the total scheme. I am sure it is an aspect that will be given consideration by the Minister if an examination of the scheme is made and if there is a means by which such a scheme can be applied to give special consideration to people in a special field just as it applies to the people who are now finding difficulty in making a reasonable living in the circumstances in which they find themselves. Even this scheme has its problems. As I understand it, there is no accurate pattern of demand for retraining yet discernible by the Department of Labour and National Service. It has to be defined and we do not want to complicate the scheme by including those categories which the honourable member for Dawson would try to include in it. I repeat that the introduction of his idea into this scheme could do nothing but delay the very urgently needed assistance for those people who are now waiting for this scheme to be set in motion. So let us get on with the job. 
If members of the Opposition were honest I am sure that after having heard my comments and after having made their speeches they would be prepared to admit that the introduction of this scheme does not disadvantage anybody. There is plenty of room for a scheme to cater for these people. If the Opposition wants to bring another one forward the Government can have a look at it. As I said, the pattern of demand is not clearly apparent at this stage but interest has been shown in the scheme since it was announced. Of course, no statistics are available to give us a clear picture, although it is reasonably clear, of the lines upon which this rural reconstruction employment training scheme will eventually be run, or the extent to which certain sections of it will be utilised. For example, we have to look pretty carefully at the attitude that will be taken by the older members of the community. They too are deserving of all the assistance that we can give them. They too have spent their lives in an endeavour to promote the welfare of Australia and its people and they must be given consideration. 
But their attitude would certainly be different to that of the younger people and would, in all probability, lean more towards the practical open air type of occupation such as that of a motor mechanic or welder - something that they can turn their hands to more easily. I think the younger farmers could reasonably be expected to be more ambitious. Their minds would turn more to a long term future. They could reasonably be expected to lean towards an occupation with a better future and greater financial rewards. The whole plan should be developed along those lines. When we see what is happening the scheme can be adapted and, no doubt, improved in some ways to meet the full requirement. I want to make another one or two points with regard to some of the aspects of this worldwide problem. I commend the Minister and the Government on introducing this very com prehensive plan, but let us look at what is happening even in an industrial nation like Japan. The Japanese too are giving special attention to the rural sector. In Japan grants are made available to farmers who settled after the war up to the end of March 1958 and whose farm is in a difficult situation and offers no prospects, for the future and who, although they would like to leave agriculture, are unable to do so through lack of funds. 
So there are many problems confronting people in other countries. In France the AMPRA, an association for occupational transfers in agriculture, has been set up. The French Minister for Agriculture approved the setting up of. a specialised association and allocated funds for its operation. The Minister pointed to the difficulties associated with action to facilitate occupational movements. The duties of the AMPRA consist in particular of seeking out under-employed persons in agriculture. This is a clear example of the worldwide trend which Australia is facing up to with a very well drafted scheme which was presented to the Parliament this morning. In addition to what I have said about seeking out under-employed persons the AMPRA also has the duty of informing those people of the general opportunities available for vocational re-adjustment, helping them to select the vocational training best meeting their qualifications and the labour, market and conditions, giving them every assistance and encouraging them to change their occupation if they are in the position in which we find so many of our people in rural areas today through, as I emphasised, no fault of the Government but through a change in circumstances. 
It is all very well for the Opposition to claim that but this is a worldwide situation. Honourable members opposite are prepared to blame the Government for everything. I sometimes think - and I would like to use what little time I have left without interruption - when I look at the suggestions made by members of the Opposition over recent years that they must surely have adopted the Social Credit principle of printing money because of the things they want to do. They have no financial worries. They just put everything up and it does not matter 2 hoots what the cost is because they do not have to find the money. I commend the Minister and the Government on this scheme and in the interests of those people who badly need the services that will be provided I hope that its implementation will not be delayed. 
The National Service Bill which is before the House is necessary to implement the Government's decision to reduce the period of national service training from 24 months to 18 months. National service was introduced to ensure that the level of Army manpower was maintained at a strength consistent with our defence requirements and, of course, with the population of this country. While the Bill provides for a reduction in the time to be served in the Army by a national serviceman it will not reduce the reserve of over 20,000 trained men whom national service has made possible and who are available in the event of an emergency arising in the defence of this country. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  has made some points. He said - and I agree - that there is a wide difference of opinion as to what dangers Australia may happen to face. I think I understood him correctly. He said that the Australian Labor Party wanted to see Australia well protected. That is the very reason why we have introduced national service - so that the numbers will be brought up to a figure which will ensure that Australia is well protected. He also said that we did not want to throw young Australians into battle untrained. Again this is the reason for our national service requirements. We want to have an effective and sufficiently strong force operating and to have trained men in reserve so that at a time when they might be required - we hope the situation will not arise - they will be available. 
As has been pointed out the national service scheme has provided more than 50,000 trained men. The honourable member for Brisbane referred to the Citizen Military Forces and said that it has been adversely affected by national service training. That is a matter of opinion. At 30th June last 12,000 men were serving part time in the CMF as an alternative to national service. In addition to that number some 2,000 had already completed their CMF obligation. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  said in his second reading speech: 
Notwithstanding that fewer national service registrants have been opting for Citizen Force service, optees stilt comprised 35 per cent of the CMF at 30th June Inst. 
So it is not correct to say that national service has had an adverse effect on our Citizen Military Forces. I recognise, and I think the Government recognises, that it is desirable that Army manpower should be obtained by voluntary enlistment if it is available to us. If we had sufficient volunteers in our Army it would not be necessary to have national service call-ups. As I mentioned earlier, at the same time it does provide that reserve which is an added strength to the ordinary serving forces of the Army. To that extent it is an additional benefit. But if there are insufficient volunteers to maintain the Army at the required strength, the numbers have to be brought up in some way and national service is designed to do just that. 
There is no doubt that in a country where good opportunities are readily available for the future of the young men of that country there is less attraction to an army career. So one of the reasons why there has not been the number of volunteers going into the Army in Australia has been the great opportunities that are available to young men in this country and this has been brought about by the sound and progressive policies that have been constantly followed by this Government. This situation is in contrast to what has happened in some other countries. The Government has had a policy of full employment and when one compares Australia with other countries where perhaps a greater number of volunteers are available it will be seen that the reasons why they are available are because of the unemployment level and because the opportunities for them were not there to the same extent as they have been in this country. I suppose it would be possible that if a Labor government was returned to the treasury bench - I hope this will not happen - it could get sufficient volunteers in time because its policies would not provide the employment opportunities that exist now. This may be one way a Labor government could increase the number of volunteers. The Government has adopted this measure as a means by which the numbers can be provided and because the experts who have considered it felt it was the fairest way of providing the number of young men required to keep the Army manpower up to the desired level. 
The Government does not desire to disrupt the careers of young men any more than is absolutely essential to maintain adequate numbers in our defence forces. It has made provision for young men to continue their studies until they reach degree standard. It has deferred the obligation to enter national service training for reasons that I need not enumerate in full but those seeking exemption have to prove that their reasons are sound and that hardship will result if they were to be called up at a particular time. A great deal of consideration has been given to avoiding any unnecessary disruption to careers or any undue hardship for the young people of this country. 
In addition to that the Government now recognises that present circumstances allow a reduction in the period of service from 24 months to 18 months and this is what this Bill is designed to bring about. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said it was simply a matter of the Government not being able to finance the present national service programme. That is an absurd suggestion because there would be no doubt that this Government on its record down the years has ensured that priority in expenditure was given to maintaining an adequate defence for this country. The honourable member also said that a professional Army of 28,000 men - I think that was the number he mentioned - would be more effective than the Army under the system that is operating now but he entirely overlooks the great value of the reserves that are provided under this system. He overlooks the ' fact which was mentioned by the honourable member for Brisbane that we do not want to tend young men into Army service who are untrained. 1 might mention that although the term of service has been reduced from 24 months to 18 months, the period on active reserve has been increased from 3 years to 3i years. So the numbers are still available if required. It is not a reduction in numbers but a reduction in the time of training. These men are still available if required in any emergency. . 
I have heard it suggested at times that we could compare the attitudes of some other countries towards volunteer armies with our own. 1 know that Great Britain and Canada have been mentioned as countries with full volunteer armies. In looking at this question it has to be remembered that the Government of Great Britain has reduced its commitments in overseas service very considerably and has the protection of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation which is still active in that area. Great Britain may feel that the reduction that has been brought about in the numbers of servicemen may not affect very greatly its capacity to defend itself in the circumstances in which it finds itself at the moment. With regard to Canada, it is obvious, of course, that she is geographically situated in a most advantageous position adjoining one of the great powers in the world today. Canada is protected on 2 sides by the United States and protected by great distance although distance is being overcome as the years go by. However, it still forms a very substantial protection for Canada. It is no wonder that a country so situated would be able to reduce its numbers to a level which it feels it requires. There is a protection available to it by being part of the North American continent and in addition to that Canada has the protection of being well situated as far as distance is concerned in relation to countries from which there might be some military threat. 
This is very different from the situation in which Australia finds itself. Australia is situated as an outpost of the European community in a South East Asian environment and its associations are quite different. We are a long way from the people with whom we have been traditionally associated although we do have the protection of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. But this is not sufficient to justify any lessening of the strength that is required to maintain an adequate defence force in this country. One only has to imagine some flare-up in that area to see that Australia would be in a position where it would have to strengthen its defences fairly quickly and by having reserves available in our trained national servicemen Australia could get these people into service and be ready to protect this country in times of national emergency. Also a country is respected much more if the numbers of its defence forces are consistent with what is reasonably regarded as adequate. Prevention is always belter than cure. If we have the forces to defend this country adequately we may not have to use them as we might if we allowed the strength of our forces to deteriorate, which could happen unless we use the forces which are available to us and which the world knows are available to us. 
Turning again to the Citizen Military Forces, it is a very effective and very essential part of our defence forces and does provide an alternative for those young men who do not want to serve in a ?articular war and who do not want to undertake ordinary national service training and perhaps be sent overseas. It provides this avenue particularly for young men in rural industries at a time when the engagement of labour is not economically possible in rural areas. They can remain on their properties doing very worthwhile work for Australia and at the same time be trained so that they too, if necessary, can be called up and can play their part in times of national emergency. Many young people in Australia today particularly in the rural areas, have accepted this form of alternative to national service and it has been to their own benefit and to the benefit of Australia. I believe that the reduction in the period of service in the Citizen Military Forces from  6  to  5  years in conjunction with the reduction in the period of national service training from  2  years to  18  months will still allow people who have chosen to serve in the Citizen Military Forces to continue with that type of service in Australia. 
I believe that one of the great weaknesses of the Labor Party down the years has been its attitude to defence. One of the things which the Australian people have refused to accept over the years has been the Labor Party's defence policy. The people do not regard the Labor Party's defence policy as having the strength that has always been provided since this Government came into office. Of course, the Australian people are not warlike at all. All that we and I think the great majority of Australians want is a satisfactory defence force, and the numbers which the Labor Party proposes should be in the Army - whether they are professional soldiers or not - are not consistent with what might reasonably be expected that the Australian nation should provide in its own defence. Unless we have this strength in the Army we are asking for possible encroachment on Australia by another country, and we would not be able to offer any ally that might be prepared to come to our assistance the kind of help which it could require in a time of emergency. 
Australia has a national responsibility to provide an army and a defence force at a level consistent with what Australia can reasonably be expected to provide. If we are to expect other countries, as I believe we will, to come to our aid in time of need, then we should show our willingness and determination to have in this country a defence force of a strength which we should reasonably be expected to provide. We should be prepared to do as much as and perhaps even more than similar sized countries in the geographical situation in which we find ourselves in Australia. I believe that it is very much in the interest of the Australian people that we should keep our defence forces at least at their present level. 
If I were to have any criticism of the Government's policy in this field, it would be that we do not have as strong an army or as strong a defence force as we should have. I believe that Australia's economy justifies even greater strength in our defence forces than exists today, but certainly the position is a long way better than what is proposed by the Labor Party in its amendment to this Bill. However, I believe that the Australian people should have the opportunity to show, as they have done in the past very clearly and decisively, that they require a government to keep our defence forces up to the level which this country can reasonably carry. 
If I had any criticism at all of the Government's policy it would be along the lines that the strength of our defence forces is not as great as it should be. This is vitally important. We do not get any warning, as was pointed out earlier in the debate. How do we get a warning? The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said that we would not be under threat for 10 years. Who can accept that? Who can be sure that we will not be under threat within 10 years, or within a shorter period of time? We cannot afford to take a risk, so the strength of our defence forces is of vital importance to Australia. What do we have if we do not retain our freedom? Can we expect to have the support that we believe we are entitled to receive if we do not do as much as this country reasonably can afford? That is the basis upon which the strength of our defence forces should be fixed. That is the criterion to be used to decide whether Australia is doing as much as she can in her own defence. I believe that if Australia does that she can confidently expect to get help in a time of emergency. 1 commend the Bill. I warmly support it and I oppose the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
There is no point of order. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Order! I think that the honourable member for Kingston is getting wide of the mark. I have extended leniency to him in view of what has gone on before, but I believe that he should return to the Bill before the House and to the amendment which has been moved. 
Encourage the development of airways, airports, and air navigation facilities for international civil aviation; 
Meet the needs of the peoples of the world for safe, regular, efficient and economical air transport. 
One of the questions which I directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation referred to the effect on certain roadways of a proposed extension to the runway, if some of these large aircraft were to use the Adelaide airport. The Minister stated, amongst other things, that the Department of Civil Aviation was seeking an answer to an approach from the highways authority, when the authority was considering upgrading Tapley's Hill and Military Roads, and that that caused the review of possible airport needs at this time. What this means is that if there had not been any approach to the Department of Civil Aviation there would not have been any review - at least not for the present. The present examination is a limited one because it has been limited to considerations of the West Beach Airport itself and any reference to alternative sites in all the answers I have received has been expressed in very broad generalities. 
I refer now to a question I asked the Minister. I asked what was the estimated capital cost of establishing a new airport terminal north of Adelaide. The answer I received was: 
No estimate has been made but it would certainly cost lens of millions of dollars for the airport and its terminal facilities. In addition there would be a very heavy commitment by the State or local governments to provide high speed road access. 
That answer suggests that not only is there no estimate for the airport - whether it is to be an international terminal or something else - but under this Government there will be no estimate. I should like to know why there is any element of secrecy. I have in mind another question I asked, lt reads: 
Did the Department of Civil Aviation advise the West Torrens City Council to rezone certain areas adjacent to the West Beach Airport . . .  1 received a very long answer from the Minister and 1 will not take up the time of the House in reading it. I point out that 1 have not received a frank answer or really any answer at all to this question. I would like to know what advice was given to the West Torrens Council: what were the forecasts of noise exposure expected at the airport? This was referred to in the answer. I have had on the notice paper since the first day of this session a question requesting the noise exposure forecast but I have not yet received a reply. If these figures can be made available to local authorities why can they not be made readily available to this Parliament? After all I have been given the figures in relation to traffic movements in the past and the projected figures for these movements and 1 am pleased to have them. I hoped that the figures on noise levels can be provided because they are really more important than the traffic movement figures. 
Another matter 1 want to know about is how much involvement there is by the Department of Civil Aviation in decisions on the choice of aircraft. This is a matter which has been raised by other honourable members during this debate. The Minister has told me previously when I asked him whether the Department would allow larger aircraft to use this airport that there is a general trend towards larger and usually quieter and more economical aircraft which may wish to use our capital city airports. He said that there are several types of aircraft under consideration by the domestic airlines but it is understood that their final selection and the proposed timing of their introduction has not yet been determined. What this means is that the decision making is left to the airlines themselves. How much consideration is given by the airlines to questions of noise? I hardly think that the noise levels will be a decisive factor in the decision of the airlines if quieter aircraft will cost the airlines money. I would like to be reassured that the Government involves itself in such decisions to ensure that the decision on new aircraft purchases will be made in the interests of all the public and not just the airlines and the relatively small number of people who travel on airlines. 
My submission is that there must be a full inquiry into all possible contingencies. I am not necessarily advocating a select committee, although this has been brought forward by the honourable member for Newcastle. In the case of this particular facility we know that although we did have a committee inquire into it we have not yet had any decision on it. The Government would not agree to a public examination of alternative airport sites. I seem to remember a couple of Government supporters voting with the Opposition on the proposal for a public examination but it was still defeated by the Government. I would like to see a comprehensive analysis and publication of the findings in the form of a Government White Paper. This should be released to allow a full debate by the public and by the members of this Parliament before a final decision is taken by the Government. The same sort of thing has happened with the new London airport. I said that it should be a departmental inquiry because I believe we now know what we want to know. We need a cost benefit analysis of the alternative courses of action to decide whether we should on the one hand keep West Beach or on the other hand move the terminal, or have both. All these factors must be taken into consideration including the social factors as well as the economic factors. I believe that this can be done. 
I would like to refer to another matter. I asked the Minister: 
What objective criteria does the Department of Civil Aviation use when weighing the loss of open space, property values and human comfort from aircraft noise against the needs of airlines and air travellers? 
The answer I received, amongst other things, was: 
It is very doubtful whether it is possible to devise objective criteria along the lines suggested. 
I do not agree with this. I believe that comparative studies can and must be made, using the techniques of programme and performance budgeting systems, either by using a fixed budget approach or a fixed utility approach. Under the fixed utility approach we can say which alternative method is likely to achieve a specific level of success in the pursuit of a given objective at lowest cost. Under the fixed budget approach we can say which of the alternative ways of spending a fixed amount of money will achieve the greatest level of success in the pursuit of a given objective? There are many aspects which we want investigated. If the present site is retained what will be the cost of extensions including acquisition of properties near the airport? To what extent will properties be devalued? This is what the Minister told me in reply to a question I asked him: 
It is not necessarily correct to say that an airport reduces nearby land values. There is considerable evidence to the contrary,. 
If there is considerable evidence I would like to see some of it. I would like to have an analysis of what will happen to property values. I have questions on the notice paper asking what evidence is available and I hope to get this information fairly shortly. If land values do drop we want to know what the cost will be to the public purse if nearby residents are to be bought out and will they be indemnified against the loss of their property values? What will be the cost of soundproofing homes, if this is necessary? What are the estimated noise levels? What are their effects? And so on. There should be an evaluation of moving the airport out of the metropolitan area in terms of money and in terms of social losses and gains. How much can be expected to be realised by subdivision and development of West Beach? What is the cost of establishing a new facility? What is the cost of establishing a transport corridor to give access to a new airport? Obviously some factors cannot be foretold but this does not prevent a comparison between 2 sites with other things being equal. And even on the imponderables there should be public discussion. 
I am sure that many people would like to be kept -abreast of developments in reducing engine noise. We know what happened to the Rolls-Royce company. It went broke because of the large amount of research expenditure on trying to reduce engine noise in the RBI 11. We want to be kept up to date with what is happening about vertical take-offs. Perhaps if these things become more advanced they may be the critical points in the whole discussion. For that matter there may be less air travel. It is not unlikely that air pollution from aircraft could make us have second thoughts about the convenience of air travel. The same considerations apply to fuel reserves - non-renewable resources. The information that I have on the Concorde and the jumbo jet is that 4 flights a day have been projected for the future and in trans- A ti antic flights the Concorde and the jumbo would each carry 2i times its bodyweight in fuel with an annual consumption of 320 million metric tons of kerosene. How long will we be able to keep up with the consumption of that much fossil fuel? I would like to refer to an article in the magazine 'Interavia'. It reads: 
It is very possible that tomorrow's busy executive will consider his time far  too  valuable to be frittered away on jammed-up approach roads or hanging about on overloaded airports - despite all the advantages offered by supersonic travel. Moreover, the rapid strides made in communications technologies suggest that in many cases the physical presence of an executive at business transactions may become superfluous. This will certainly be the case by the end of the century and possibly even earlier. 
I suppose that we would all say that this would apply to the other fellow and not to us. But perhaps it may be us and it will not be very long before parliamentary sessions are held by way of communications. I can imagine myself sitting in my office and pressing a button.  Mr Deputy Speaker  would be sitting in the Chair and he would give me the call because my button light went on before that of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  It would be like Bob Dyer's buzzer and bell. I would get in first for a change. This is another consideration. Perhaps there will be less need for air travel in the future because of advances in communications. 
I would like to see a great deal more detailed analysis of the various permutations and combinations of what is likely to happen to the Adelaide airport. I would like to see a great reduction in the secrecy surrounding this matter and 1 think that there ought to be a more open attitude by the Government on this matter. In this context let me point out something that I noticed in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' on Monday. 14th June of this year. It related to the formation of a protest body concerning the Adelaide Airport. The newspaper article said: 
Speaking from Sydney last night  Senator Cotton  said the timing of the Department of Civil Aviation study of Adelaide Airport had mainly been influenced by inquiries from local highway authorities. 
The significant words are: 'Speaking from Sydney last night  Senator Cotton  said*. My understanding, and I am pretty sure of it, is that at that date  Senator Cotton  was overseas. He had been overseas for some time before that and he did not get back until early in July. So someone is pulling someone's leg. I do not know who it is. I say that, because I hope that no-one is pulling anyone's leg too much over the future of Adelaide Airport. 
I hope that some notice will be taken of what I have said. In the Estimates debate last year I spoke about the future of the Adelaide Airport. I have not any evidence at all that anybody took the slightest bit of notice of what I said. I have not received any communication from the Department or from the Minister. The Minister did not reply to what I said. I just wonder whether the Government is completely impervious to the problems and the long term thinking about the Adelaide Airport and about the convenience of the people who unfortunately have to live close to it. I support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle. 
1 ask the Minister for the Interior whether he is still receiving money and requests from the general public for the purchase of land in the Simpson Desert in the Northern Territory. Will the Minister inform the House whether this land is for sale? If the land is not for sale how can he respond to the suggestion of the honourable member for Capricornia that he should transfer these funds to the honourable member who would devote them to a public company he hopes to form for the purpose of purchasing this land? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I should like to reply briefly to the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  who has just resumed his seat after a very well read address to the Parliament. 
It is quite in order for the honourable member to read his speech and it would be quite in order for me to do so. Honourable members opposite become offended quickly; they are very touchy. 1 make that comment in passing. The honourable member for Bendigo said that he was surprised at the amount of opposition by Government supporters to the Opposition's amendment. My colleague, the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann),  pointed out that if the Government voted for the amendment, it would be voting against the Bill. This is true; there is no question about it. It is conceded, I am sure, by anyone who understands the situation, although anyone who does not understand it might not fully appreciate it. The honourable member for Bendigo, in reply to that argument said that if the amendment were carried, a Bill could be resubmitted immediately. On this point I shall quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair). 
No, he did not. The Minister said: 
Industry leaders, after consultation with the industry generally, have indicatedtheir very strong support for the scheme to which legislative expression is now soughtto be given through this Bill and the associated Apple and Pear Stabilisation Export Duty Bill 1971 . . . 
The Minister also referred to the other 2 associated Bills. I point out to the honourable member for Bendigo and to members of the Opposition generally that the Minister also said: 
That it is possible today to bring down in this House a Bill to implement a scheme for the stabilisation of returns to apple and pear growers is a tribute to the common sense and spirit of co-operation which have marked discussions and negotiations between industry leaders and representatives of the Commonwealth for well over 3 years and which have led to the present position being reached. 
This scheme has been agreed to and accepted by the industry, yet the Opposition, because it feels that for some reason or another it must oppose something that the Government introduces, has moved an amendment. The Opposition will not accept something which the industry wants. 
I am particularly surprised at what has been said by Opposition members from Tasmania although, in all fairness to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  he did say: 
We welcome this scheme. However it is not a full blooded stabilisation scheme like the other stabilisation plans. . . . 
He said, in effect, that he welcomed the Bill. However, the amount of opposition to the scheme surprises me because the scheme is much needed. There is great difficulty in securing agreement between States in every field and this occasion is no exception to the rule. As the Minister for 
Primary Industry mentioned, the scheme has been negotiated for well over 3 years. I think that the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  said that it has been negotiated for nearly 4 years. So, it is obvious that there is great difficulty in getting agreement between the States. We have agreement now and we cannot afford to spend another 3 years in trying to get the industry to agree to the proposition which is being advanced today by the Opposition. The Government will not allow a stabilisation scheme for the apple and pear growers to be delayed any longer. 
-I am not joking. In effect the Opposition's amendment would cause delay. Members of the Opposition do not want this agreed scheme but want to bulldoze something else through. I should like to inform the House of the Government's attitude to this matter. I agree completely with the Minister when he said: 
As honourable members well know, this Government never seeks to impose an orderly marketing or stabilisation scheme on an industry. The proposals for such a plan must be developed through a well tried and proven system of consultation and negotiations between' the Government and an industry so that, when they are presented to the Parliament, it can be confidently affirmed that the proposals conform to the requirements of the Australian Constitution and to our responsibilities in the field of international . trade; that they are legally and practically realistic and that their implementation is sought by the industry concerned. 
If members of the Opposition do not agree with this, let them say so. If they are not in conformity with this idea and if ever it is the misfortune of this country to have them in office and they are going to bring in schemes irrespective of what the industry thinks, let them stand up and be counted now and let it be known that this is what they intend to do. This is not what the Government intends to do and that is why we oppose the amendment and support the Bill. 
I said earlier that I was surprised at the opposition which has been expressed by Opposition members from Tasmania because we all realise . that Tasmania is dependent upon a stable apple and pear industry. If the honourable members for Braddon, Wilmot and . Franklin  (Mr 
Sherry) do not agree with this, that is OK. I am surprised that they do not accept it because it is of greater advantage to Tasmania than it is to any other State in the Commonwealth. 
I commend the industry and its leaders, and the Government and its negotiators on arriving finally at agreement, because I know how difficult it is to get agreement. We have seen this in many instances. We have seen other endeavours made by the Commonwealth to get agreement by the States to schemes we have brought forward which we felt were in the interests of Australia generally, but there was opposition from one State or another because it did not agree with all aspects of the scheme that had been brought forward. It is very difficult to get agreement, and I am delighted that at last the apple and pear industry and the Government are in agreement on this stabilisation scheme, because it is vital to the industry, vital to Australia, vital to Tasmania in particular, and vital to the fruit growers in the Stanthorpe area in my own State of Queensland. 
I make no apology for getting up here today to speak on this Bill, because I represent the only large apple and pear growing district in Queensland. We are sometimes twitted about not representing the people. I am standing to represent the apple and pear growers in the Stanthorpe area of Queensland as well as, I believe, people in the industry generally, because the industry has shown that it wants to have this stabilisation scheme brought down. 
Another aspect surprises me. I refer to some remarks made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  I understand that he said in his speech that he spoke on behalf of the growers in Tasmania because he had been down there at a meeting. I think this is an indictment of the other honourable members who represent Tasmania. I wonder what the Tasmanian growers will think when they find that the honourable member for Riverina has come up here and put the case for the apple growers of Tasmania when they are very well represented by other honourable members. He said he was going to explain why he was to speak on behalf of the apple growers of Tasmania. Surely the honourable member for Wilmot, who is the Secretary of the Tasmanian Labor Party Rural Committee, and the other 2 honourable members I have already mentioned, the honourable member for Braddon and the honourable member for Franklin, can speak very effectively on behalf of the apple and pear growers of Tasmania. 
The honourable member for Riverina took over and said he was going to speak on their behalf. I suggest that it would be a good idea if he gave full credit, as I do, to the representation made - by these other honourable members. 
There is no need to say you are speaking for the apple and pear growers of Tasmania. I am speaking specifically for the apple and pear growers of Queensland, and I am proud to say that. I believe that these people are a very .. deserving section of the community, and I - would like to make a few points with regard to them. The Queensland apple and pear industry is very anxious to see this stabilisation scheme brought into being, but of course Queensland as a State is not as dependent upon the apple and pear industry as are other States, particularly Tasmania. Nevertheless every apple and pear grower in the Stanthorpe district is as important as any other apple and pear grower in any other part of Australia. I emphasise that the Country Party represents the people, and 1 refute the suggestion that is sometimes thrown at us that we do not. 
The apple and pear industry in Queensland has increased its production very considerably. Apple production in Queensland has increased from 1,375,000 bushels in 1966 to 2,500,000 bushels in 1971. I know , that is a small production compared with what is produced in other States, but I . mention that growth. Whilst that growth has taken place, exports of both apples and pears in 1971 are slightly less than they were in 1966, although there have been fluctuations in the intervening period. Growers in the Stanthorpe area realise the importance of export markets and they export quite a quantity of apples and pears. Last year 190,000 bushels of apples and 8,000 bushels of pears from the Stanthorpe area were exported. Exports have an effect on the industry generally, and the growers have endeavoured, as I have pointed out, to establish local markets for their fruit. This would benefit the whole industry because, in view of the exports that come from other States, the smaller the amount is that is exported from Queensland the better. The Queensland growers have endeavoured and have succeeded in establishing local markets. 
As some idea of the value of the industry, the granite belt fruit industry does not cover a very large area, yet it is estimated to  support directly or indirectly some 7,000 to 8,000 people. So the industry is of very great benefit to that area. I commend those in the industry not only on the effort they make to market their apples locally, for which of course there is an incentive because of the financial benefit attached to it, but also on their endeavours to establish a cannery in the Stanthorpe area. We all know of the problems that are associated with canneries. But at the same time the growers face a problem with regard to hail; so it is very essential that a cannery should be established in that area or, failing that, perhaps as second best a fruit juice industry. Endeavours are being made to establish a cannery, and J am sure that they will succeed. 
The apple and pear growers welcome this stabilisation scheme. Although the present position of the industry makes the degree of stabilisation proposed in this Bill a very welcome measure, and although this scheme will stabilise the return to growers in a very difficult and disturbing period for the industry, the measure certainly does not do everything that the industry wants. We realise that. Of course the Opposition can say that it will do everything everybody wants because it does not have to find the finance with which to do it. The Opposition does not have to do anything except say: 'Whatever you do we will do better' irrespective of any other aspect of the scheme. But the cost of the scheme to the industry could be in the vicinity of $I0m over 5 years. The important point is to get the stabilisation scheme into effect. If we can then improve on the scheme, so much the better. 
There is another angle to it. While the scheme falls short in terms of the returns it will provide to growers, it is necessary. We would all like to see the growers receive the profit that it is reasonable to expect for their capital outlay and for their energy. There is no reason to believe that the whole scheme cannot be looked at in the future. In fact, if there is a need for it, the scheme will be reviewed. This has been mentioned. The scheme can be looked at again if it becomes out of balance or for any other reason. I am sure that the Government would be very happy to look at the scheme if it were approached by the industry or if a view was expressed by the industry that this scheme was not bringing about all the benefits to the fruit growers that was expected of it. 
I am not suggesting for a moment that this scheme is doing everything that the fruit growers would want but it is certainly doing something. It is a step in the right direction, and I am amazed that' anyone associated with the fruit industry would not be very willing to take this opportunity to get this scheme into operation and then, if necessary, do something further about it. I was interested too in the remarks made by the honourable member for Franklin, who I am pleased to see is in the House at the moment. He referred to the absence of industrial trouble in Tasmania. He said: 
T would like honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House to listen to this, because so. often in this House we hear about the outrageous behaviour of the trade unions with regard to primary industry. 
He went on to say that  Mr Clark  expressed his appreciation to the Waterside Workers Federation. I am very honest and I am very fair in my approach, and I recognise that this is so. What I want to point out is that, as only too often is the case, this is the exception which proves the rule. I would like to quote from the Courier Mail' of yesterday an article headed 'Wool Men Stay Out'. It states: 
Storemen and packers employed by Brisbane wool broking and wool dumping firms have decided to continue their strike until at least next Friday. Between 400 and 500 Storemen and Packers' Union members walked off the job about 8.30 a.m. last Friday, in support of a union claim for a general wage increase of $10 a week for all classifications.' 
The wool industry in my own State is suffering' very greatly. 
I would only hope-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I remind the honourable member for Maranoa that this Bill relates to apples and pears. 

 - Mr. Deputy Speaker, I accept your very wise ruling. Coming back to the legislation, I hope that the example which has been given by the honourable member for Franklin will be accepted by people in every industry and particularly in industries which are suffering very greatly as a result of industrial trouble. It is pleasing to me to hear this comment that was made by the honourable member for Franklin. I am sure that the industry will appreciate the efforts that are being made by the Government. I regret that it has taken as long as this to introduce legislation to put this scheme into operation. I sincerely hope that noone will be foolish enough to upset this proposal now and that the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition will be rejected in the interests of growers. I hope also that this Bill will be enacted as quickly as possible in the interests of apple and pear growers in Australia. 
Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
In  Committee 
Clauses 1 to 6  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Support Price). 
Earlier in this debate the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  raised  a  matter concerning the Minister for Mines and Main Roads in Queensland and said that he had said that there could be a Communist influence in this country endeavouring to raise the price of coal which would make it possible for Communist countries in Asia to supply coal at a lower price than we could. As I recall the honourable member for Dawson said that he had made some endeavours to find out whether there were any grounds upon which he could verify this and he had been unable to do so. What I want to say is that I have the very highest regard for the integrity of  Mr Camm,  the Minister for Mines and Main Roads in Queensland. I am quite sure that in this case he would not make such a suggestion lightly. I believe that he would have had good grounds for making the suggestion that he has made, and even if the honourable member for Dawson in one day was not able to find to his own satisfaction that there was proof of this, it does not prove that the suggestions of the Minister for Mines were not well and truly founded. 
Quite often people on this side of the House are accused of kicking the Communist can, but who started it in this case? It was not my intention to get up here and take a bit of the little time I have to speak on this but I do not want to see my colleague in the State House criticised without saying something in his defence. I think that this could very properly have been left with the State House in Queensland. What confidence has the honourable member for Dawson in his colleagues in Queensland if he could not leave it to them to settle this issue? Why bring it down here? I repeat that I am very confident that the Minister for Mines and Main Roads in Queensland would not have made this statement unless he had reasonable grounds for doing so. 
I want to refer to the matter of primary industry and specifically to the wool deficiency payment scheme which has been introduced into this house. The wool industry is one of the great industries of this country. It is an industry upon which the prosperity of the nation was based for many years. It is in difficult circumstances at the moment and I commend the Government and those responsible for introducing this bill very strongly because this scheme provides a degree of security for those engaged in the industry. I believe it is in the national interest that this should be done. There is a very large number of people who are dependent upon this industry and it would certainly have been of great disadvantage to the nation if some steps such as these had not been taken to preserve at least some degree of stability within the industry. 
I believe that perhaps the most important aspect of this is that we should look ahead to the day when the scheme, which is designed to last for only 12 months - it will expire in July 1972  -  does expire. The wool industry and, indeed, the Government must be looking very closely at the action which should be taken to protect the industry beyond that date. It is a strange thing that while the community at large will accept demands for wage and salary increases and seems to be prepared to accept demands for protection for secondary industry, which I do not condemn providing it is reasonably justified protection, whenever there is a move made to try to protect primary industry, however great and important that industry is, there seems to be opposition to it. I believe that this is indicated in the case of an industry such as wool which is confined mostly to areas of Australia where no other industry could survive. Whenever this is attempted there is a suggestion that there is some weight on the taxpayer. 
I would like to point out that the wool growers of Australia have for years contributed to the protection that is provided for secondary industry through tariffs and I am one of those who have urged the 
Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to have a very close and careful look at the degree of protection that is provided. I am very pleased with the attitude the Minister has taken in this regard. He has expressed his intention to see that the tariff protection given in this country is related to need. 1 want to point out that the wool industry provides employment for a very large number of people. It is the basis upon which many of our country towns survive. Surely the people engaged in the wool industry are entitled to some reasonable degree of profit. Surely they are entitled to Jive. I believe it is very much in the national interest that this scheme should be implemented and I commend the Government for it. But I do point out that it is very necessary that the industry and those responsible for it should look, as a matter of urgency, to see what action should be taken with regard to the situation in which the wool industry will find itself at the conclusion of this deficiency payments scheme. 1 would like to turn for a moment to the wheat industry. I compliment the Australian Wheat Board on the job it has done in the sale of wheat over recent times and in reducing the stocks of wheat in Australia. I would also like to compliment the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation on the way that it has handled the wheat industry. I believe it has adopted a very responsible attitude towards the industry as a whole. It had the courage to face up to the unpopular decision to recommend that quotas be applied to the industry in its interests and so that the cost to the Government could be kept within reasonable bounds to ensure that there would not be an undue accumulation of wheat. But I do want to say with regard to the wheat industry that if we are to have continually rising costs in every section of industry we must have rising rewards in primary industry. As I said before, I am amazed at the amount of opposition and criticism that arises every time a primary industry wants what every other industry feels it is justly entitled to receive. I believe that the wheat industry too will be looking towards getting some further remuneration if it has to face up to the rising costs which must follow if we have a continual rise in wages and salaries. Primary industry just cannot carry the increased costs. 
1 would like to see the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  on a wheat farm to see how he would go under the present conditions; or anyone else who thinks it is easy to make a living in primary industry today. The people in primary industry have invested quite a large amount of money it it. It is not easy to change from one type of production to another. These people are there and they have to suffer very many disadvantages such as the high cost of educating their children and all of these things that are associated- 
That is the sort of interjection that I would expect from the other side of the House and I do not want to waste my time answering such puerile interjections. 
That is quite right,  Mr Minister.  In the minute that I have left I would say that I hope Australians will be as fair to the primary producers of this country as they appear to be prepared to be fair to every other section of Australian industry. 
One of the most important aspects of national life today is generally considered to be education. This is a field in which governments have increased their activity but this activity must be maintained at nothing less than the present level. While I commend the Commonwealth Government on the attitude it has taken in regard to education I feel that there is no room for complacency. I believe that if we are to provide the essential educational facilities for the young people of Australia the Commonwealth Government will have to become more active in education than it has been in the past. 
Recently I received a copy of a letter which had been sent to the Minister for 
Education and Science. It is from the Stanthorpe State Primary School Parents and Citizens Association. That letter drew attention to the need for libraries in primary schools. While this might be regarded as a matter coming within the scope of State responsibility in regard to educational facilities it is something which is necessary and which will have to be considered in the overall aspect of education. I would like to quote the views of that Association which I feel cover this matter very well. The letter reads: 
The basic requirement for all formal education is reading skill and ability, coupled with a love of reading and willingness to approach books for research purposes. To foster these skills and desires, a child needs to have access to a wide range of literature at varying levels of interest, reading ability and also covering many topics. A few large centres have comprehensive municipal libraries; in country areas libraries are practically non-existent. We must bring the libraries into the area of children - into the schools. 
The letter goes on to say that if full advantage is to be taken of what the Commonwealth is doing by way of providing libraries in secondary schools, libraries will have to be provided in primary schools. I believe that either the Commonwealth Government or a State government - perhaps it could be done on a Commonwealth-State basis - should take cognisance of the need to establish libraries in primary schools as quickly as possible. 
Another point that has arisen in recent times is the problem of educating children in isolated areas. Recently an organisation known as the Isolated Childrens Parents Association was formed. Branches of this organisation are being established in many distant areas. I know that in my own electorate branches have been set up in Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi, St George and Morven. I understand that further branches will be set up in other distant areas. Also quite recently this organisation formed a federation in Bourke. The problem of educating children in isolated areas is a very real one for the parents of these children. The cost of sending their children away to school - the cost of fares and the cost of maintaining them - is getting beyond the capacity of these people under the present conditions in rural areas. It is against that background that I urge the Government to look very carefully at the requests of the 
Isolated Childrens Parents Association because this is a very difficult problem for these people. It is something which would not cost the Government a very great deal of money because the number of children so affected is not very great but they are very much in need of assistance. I hope that the Government will give full consideration to the claims made by this Association. 
I now turn to the matter of independent schools. This Government has established very strongly its belief in a dual system of education. I believe it is only fair to say that the Opposition for a long time was not prepared to accept this system but eventually it came into some sort of line with the Government's view, although very reluctantly. If this dual system of education is to succeed it will be maintained in a much better way by this Government than it would be by the alternative government. The amount of money provided in this Budget has not increased on last year's figure. I think this is a great pity for a number of reasons. If the dual system of education is to continue at its present level the independent schools will have to have greater government assistance. This need is clearly demonstrated by the closure of some independent schools for want of finance. What a great pity this is in so many ways. 
If we do not encourage these independent schools in the way that we have in the past, this country will be in a great deal of difficulty in terms of educating the young. The financial saving is not the only consideration, although it is a very real one. for these schools involve a large number of teachers who have dedicated their lives under this dual system of education to the teaching of children. These people probably will not be available to teach if the dual system of education falls apart. Prior to the commencement of the 1970 school year the per capita grants per annum were $35 per primary pupil and $50 per secondary pupil. I think that is little enough. It was a very great business proposition for the community at large but costs have increased, as we all know only too well, since that time but no increase has been made to the per capita grants. The figures I have available to me come from a reliable source but they relate only to 1968-69. The annual cost per pupil in government primary schools in all States in that year was $225. So what a bargain it is for the community at large to have independent schools operating at the primary level at a cost of only $35 per pupil. In the secondary schools the cost per pupil in 1967-68 was $332 compared with the amount of $50 made available through per capita grants. 
I appeal to the Government to give further consideration to assistance for independent schools. These schools are essential in our education system and without this further assistance I fail to see how they will be able to meet rising costs. I have said this before and I repeat it. The signs are there and unless this Government is prepared to give greater financial assistance to independent schools they will disappear. In fact they are already disappearing. This Government must step in and prevent their disappearance from the Australian educational scene. 
What would be the position if independent schools were to discontinue their operations? What would happen to the students? Where would we find accommodation for them? Where would we find the teaching staff? In that situation we would be forced to provide the money that we have not been prepared to provide in this Budget. I know that the Government is under pretty severe strains with regard to inflationary trends and that it is anxious to do all that it can to limit government expenditure and in some fields I believe this is a necessary and wise step to take. But in the field of education I see no advantage in restricting finance, because this expenditure would not increase inflation in any way. I believe that further assistance would be of tremendous advantage in the overall aspect of education. The dual system of education provides friendly and healthy rivalry amongst schools in general. It provides some sort of competition. I am not saying anything against our State school system. In fact at this stage I should say that I believe it to be desirable for the State school system to be assisted to an even greater extent than they are being assisted. But the point is, what sort of strain will arise in our State school system if we let the independent school system disintegrate through a lack of finance? Surely this Government should increase its aid very considerably in the interests of education to enable the continuation of a dual system of education which has served this country so well and which I believe is very necessary for the future if we are to keep our standard of education at its present level. On an international comparison our standard of education is certainly no higher than it has to be in these days of great competition in every field in which we are engaged. Further financial assistance is necessary for educational facilities so that Australia may keep her place among the top nations of the world. 
Order! There is no point of order. 
The Bill before the House implements the Government's decision to provide some assistance at least for the wool industry. But before I go on with that I might say that I am sorry to see the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  going out of the chamber because I want to make some comment on what he said. The honourable member said - and I cannot be worried if he is not here - that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  should take copies of his speech around his electorate. I think that the honourable member for Kennedy would be very wise to take the edition of Hansard which contains his speech around his electorate because it will win him votes. He should take not only his own speech but also the speech of the honourable member for Sturt because I believe that that speech would probably win him more votes than his own, however many it might bring him. 
The honourable member for Sturt said that people would have to beg cap in hand for assistance. This is just exactly what the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson requires wool growers to do. The amendment reads, in part: 
the one-year emergency grant moneys available under the Bill should be directed only to those bona fide wool producers, big or small, who are genuinely in need of emergency finance. 
I will tell the honourable member what is wrong with it in just a moment. A farmer has to give proof that he is in need before he will get anything out of this. What I want to say to the Opposition generally, and in particular the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  is that if this principle is to be applied to the stabilisation of primary industry surely it must be applied across the board. Surely it must be applied to the sugar industry. Is the honourable member for Dawson prepared to get up and be counted on that one? Is the honourable member for Riverina prepared to get up and be counted as agreeing that this same principle should be applied to the wheat industry. If they are agreeable then they will be reasonable in their approach; if they are not, then they are just hammering the wool grower, the people that they are purporting to support, because one cannot make fish of one and flesh of the other in a national Parliament. If this is the line that the Opposition wants to take, and if a member of the Labor Party asks me what is wrong with the amendment, as one did,  1  say that we have to apply assistance across the board or not apply it at all if honourable members opposite are to show any honesty in their approach to primary industry. 
That is the point I want to make particularly with regard to the amendment that the Opposition is supporting tonight. Furthermore, if there is any need - and I do not think there would be - to add something to that, let me say that history has proved beyond any shadow of doubt that we cannot effectively subsidise a primary industry unless we subsidise it across the board. The sugar industry and the wheat industry are evidence and conclusive proof of the effectiveness of that. Who wants to go back from that? I repeat: If the Opposition wants to do that, if the honourable members for Dawson and Riverina want to have that principle applied, just let them say so. I would be very pleased to be able to convey that to the people and in fact, by this amendment, they have a job not to be able to refute what I have said in this respect 
I would like to turn to the interim annual report of the Australian Wool Commission to the Parliament. In referring to the work of the Australian Wool Commission the report states: 
There is no doubt that had this stand not been taken, wool prices would have fallen lo levels significantly, below those actually experienced during the latter half of the season. 
Exactly how much further they would have fallen is of course impossible to say. While some estimates have suggested greater amounts, members of the wool trade have estimated the probable market fall at 4c to 5c per lb more than was actually experienced. 
A great deal of credit is due to the Government and to the Commission for their effective handling of the Australian wool situation throughout this very difficult period. The report goes on to say: 
Perhaps even more important for the future was the evidence, that this period provided, of the need in such circumstances for the Commission to act in a resolute, responsible manner and in 1/ns with clearly proclaimed policies, if it is to secure and retain the confidence of the world wool trade. 
I hope that the Commission and the Government will have the courage to follow this through and prove to the manufacturing industries that this is a base upon which they can rely. I would like to point out in connection with the work of the Commission that it is of great value not only lo the producers but also to the wool buyers and the wool trade. The Commission set out to provide a stable wool market and it has been under very severe test during the period in which it has been in operation. The Commission has bought wool which failed to reach the price put on it and in this way the Commission has made a better spread of the offerings throughout the season. All these steps are necessary to enable the growers to get the best price for their wool. 
I want now to refer to the value to Australia of the Australian Wool Commission. Although its value is not often readily accepted it is a fact that the operations of the Commission result in the utilisation of a very great deal of inland Australia which could not otherwise be effectively utilised but for the existence of the wool industry. The wool .industry is the basic industry for many towns scattered throughout the great inland areas of Australia. But for the wool industry we would not have the degree of decentralisation which at present exists. 
Every day we see evidence of the need for decentralisation of industry. The costs of providing homes and essential services for people living in overpopulated capital cities are much greater than in the smaller towns. Without a viable wool industry many country towns will not be able to survive and therefore I suggest that this Bill has value far beyond its value to the wool industry itself. 
I wonder whether we really understand the value of decentralisation in this country. If we did understand it we would be prepared to pay the price that we are now being called on to pay for the stabilisation of the wool industry. And this does not take into account the great performance achieved by the Wool Commission in the provision of export income for this country. Australia's balance of payments position is sound at the moment but it depends far too much for my liking on the inflow of capital. No-one can predict accurately the future and who can say that in the future there may not be a substantial restriction in capital inflow into Australia. If that happens the value of the export income earned by the wool industry will be much more fully appreciated than it. is now. Can anyone say that the wool industry will not be much more needed in the future than it has been in the past? Despite the problems which face the wool industry today Australia is fortunate to have such an industry earning the amount of export income that this industry earns. 
Let me turn to the cost to the community of assisting the wool industry. This is something that has been thrown up a few times in the course of this debate. In this regard I would commend the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  for the speech he made in this debate. He should be commended for his courage in opposing the amendment moved by his own Party.  His  stand is evidence of the worth of the case put up by the Government on this occasion. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro said that our secondary industry is protected without a means test, and this is true. I direct my remarks to those who question the cost of protecting the wool industry. I am not opposed to reasonable protection for secondary industry. I know only too well that it is essential to have that industry in this country. It is essential to have it because we need population and that population makes a very good home market for our primary produce. While I do not suggest that the protection given to secondary industry is detrimental to Australia I point out that the cost involved is very great. I know the method of giving that protection is different from that employed in stabilisation schemes. If I recall correctly it was the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who said that it is a type of tax that the producer of the goods never wants to see paid, and this is true. But the fact remains that if the good's could be brought into Australia without tariff barriers the lower prices would benefit the community at large. The cost of protecting secondary industry is very high compared with that of helping primary industry, because even though protection for secondary industry is given in an indirect way, I would like to stress this point and say that we should not concentrate all the time on the cost involved in the protection of a most essential primary industry. 
What we want in this country is a balanced economy. We should not forget the part that the wool industry is playing in providing that balanced economy. Earlier I referred to the impossible task of forecasting the future. A suggestion was made that there should be an investigation into the future prospects of our wool industry. I have no objection to this. 1 believe it would serve a very useful purpose. However, I believe that such an investigation would still not guarantee future trends in the wool industry. I, like many other people, have heard of the possibility of a great shortage of power in the future. This would lead to a reduction in materials available for the manufacture of synthetic fibres. As we look ahead, as members of this Parliament should look ahead, we should be looking to the time when wool may be in much shorter supply than it is now. 
In . regard to the cost of the Commission's activities I do hope that the people of Australia will give a fair trial to the improved Australian selling methods that are being suggested. One of the reasons that synthetic fibres have had such a success in world markets has been that they have been sold by sample and are uniform in quality. The buyer knows that he can get a certain amount of synthetic fibre of a uniform quality. This is the direction in which the wool industry is moving. 1 would certainly agree that the industry is probably moving much more slowly than we would like to see but quite plainly in the near future wool will be sold by sample. By that method wool will be able to compete as it has never been able to do in the past with synthetic fibres. By objective measurement of our wool we will be able to sell by sample. The recent sale of wool by Economic Woof Producers Ltd is a good indication of the success that can be expected to be obtained with improved methods of wool selling. I offer my sincere congratulations to EWP for its energy and enterprise in trying to make a success of the marketing of wool. 
Another problem in the wool industry is the human problem. It is not only a matter of providing finance for the wool industry. In the second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said - and this has already been referred to - that the gross return from wool has declined from $839m to $574m, but it has been estimated that approximately 1 million people are wholly or partly dependent upon the wool industry for their living. Surely if it is worthwhile protecting secondary industry in terms of the employment which it provides then I suggest with all sincerity that it is well worth providing at least this amount to the wool industry to enable the 1 million people involved to be retained in employment. This affects not only, the producer but also the businessmen in country towns who also have suffered severely. They have played a very real part in providing financial assistance to the wool growers of this country. 
This scheme will help this very deserving section of wool growers. One of the problems that have been confronting wool growers because of the recession in the industry has been the very great difficulty in obtaining finance. The provision of this assistance, in the way of direct finance, will be of double benefit. It will provide wool growers with this assistance which they have not been able to get through the ordinary commercial channels but which I believe is reasonably due to them. As I say, it will be of double benefit. As 1 have mentioned, it will assist business people in country towns. 
I have been speaking about the industry itself, but in the time remaining to me I want to refer to what I believe is possibly the most important question in the whole consideration of the wool industry: What about the future? What action will be required when the present deficiency payment scheme expires in July 1972? That is the important question. If legislation has to be placed on the statute books by that date the industry will have to give urgent consideration to the line of action which it believes should be taken. 1 believe that the question of acquisition is something that requires consideration. Despite what the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said, I am prepared to say that I have favoured acquisition over a long period of time. I have said that in public on very many occasions, and I still believe that this is the objective at which we should be aiming. But at the same time I hops that the policy of this Government will always be to consider the direction in which the industry wants to go. I would like to see more definite expressions of opinion from the wool industry about the direction in which it wants the Government to move. I know it has been said in the course of this debate that this is what the industry wants. I am sure that if the industry clearly indicates to the Government what it wants, the Government will give very serious consideration to the approach. 
The other comment I want to make is that it has been stressed that this scheme is to be introduced on a 12-months basis and that in 12 months probably we could make up our minds as to where we are going and what we arc going to do. I hope that the money which has already been put into the Australian wool industry will not be wasted, lt is essential that following on this scheme another measure will be introduced to enable the wool industry to carry on, because I have pointed out the tremendous national advantages which the wool industry possesses for this country. I have been pleased to hear comments made by those who have expressed their confidence in the viability of wool industry, and I believe in that contention. I believe, too, that the wool industry can and will remain, for a very long time, one of the most - or perhaps the most - important primary industries in Australia. The need to maintain it is there. I believe I have demonstrated that the cost of maintaining it is well within the capacity of this Australian nation and that it is sound business to do so not only for those engaged in the industry but also for the nation as a whole. I sincerely hope that we will be able to go on from this step to other steps which will ensure the future of our wool industry. 
We want - and I stress it - a balanced economy. We want to have our primary industry working in conjunction with our secondary industry in order to achieve the balanced development of this nation. This can be done in a country like Australia only if we have a balance between primary Industry and secondary industry. Until now the wool industry has asked very little of the Australian people, but it has contributed quite largely to secondary industry. I believe it is high time that the policy of this Government and of this nation was designed to achieve a balance between primary and secondary industry, even if the cost is much greater than that envisaged in this Bill. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether his attention has been drawn to a letter in yesterday's Press, written by the General Manager of the Pastoral Division of Dalgety (Aust.) Ltd, in which he stated, inter alia: 
The statement made by  Dr Patterson  that Dalgety would receive $600,000 under the wool deficiency payments scheme in respect of wool produced on its own properties is so grossly inaccurate that it should be corrected. 
He went to say: 
Deficiency payments made to the company will be only a fraction of those stated by  Dr Patterson. 
Finally, will the Minister assure the House that the assistance given to the wool industry will not be subjected to a means test as advocated by the Australian Labor Party, any more than is assistance given to the sugar, wheat and other primary industries? 
 As has been pointed out by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  this Bill is really a technical Bill. It follows on from the fact that the Commonwealth Government acceded to '*ie States' request for a growth tax. Again as has been pointed out, the payroll tax would not have been applicable to some 14 Commonwealth bodies. This Bill will now allow these authorities to pay State payroll tax. The Bill does not make them liable to pay but it removes the barrier that would prevent them from paying under their constitution. In the attachment to the second reading speech of '.he Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  there were listed the 3 constituent banks incorporated under the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. Counting these as 3 banks there are 14 bodies which will now be able to pay State payroll tax. 
A point perhaps worth making is that in handing over the payroll tax the Commonwealth has done so with a full measure of co-operation, and this Bill simply gives authority to allow these bodies to pay the tax and thereby demonstrates the sincerity of purpose in handing over the payroll tax to the States. The question of payroll tax and its merits does not come into the Bill. It is merely a Bill which allows the States to collect the amount of money they will be able to collect by allowing these bodies to pay the payroll tax which the States can apply to them but which in the present circumstances they would not be allowed to pay. I think that the Commonwealth Government in making this available to the States has shown a willingness to assist the States by allowing them a growth tax. It will help them in their financial problems. While often the Commonwealth Government is criticised, I think this is a very good example of the willingness of the Commonwealth Government to co-operate with the States, and this Bill we are debating here now indicates that the Commonwealth is prepared to honour in full its undertaking to the States by enabling these Commonwealth authorities to pay State payroll tax. The Commonwealth is quite agreeable that they should pay so that the States will pet the full benefit of the payroll tax which has been transferred to them by the Commonwealth. 
Has the Acting Prime Minister seen reports of the creation of a new wool action group to study economies in the cost of moving wool from farm to overseas mill? Will the Minister assure the fullest government assistance and cooperation in these studies, which could be most beneficial in alleviating an important cost element in the depressed wool industry? 
Is leave granted. There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="074131197111020_29_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197111020_29_1.jpg"></graphic>

The other rather interesting thing is that there is a far higher proportion of females to total taxpayers in the provisional group than there is in the non-provisional group. This would indicate that what is being pursued within the tax structure is a deliberate splitting of incomes. An income that in some other case would be the income of one person becomes the income of two. with a consequent reduction in the liability to total tax that the 2 people pay derived from one source. I say nothing separately rather than if the income were about the legitimacy of this. Lord Mansfield in a case in the British courts many years ago suggested that it was the right of individuals to so order their affairs as to pay the minimum tax or to minimise their liabilities. Equally it is the right of the authorities collecting the revenue to take what precautions they can to close loopholes where in fact they exist. I merely point out that there seems to be a certain amount of income splitting by the forming of partnerships and other arrangements to split what in other circumstances would be one income into 2 or more incomes. That is revealed to some extent in the table that has been incorporated. 
Primarily what I want to go on now to examine is the inequity that exists in relation to the deductions that are allowable. Again I seek leave of the House to incorporate a table. 
income rises, let us say, as high ,s 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Is leave granted? There being no objection $20,000 or falls as low as $1,000 on the leave is granted. same bands from the bottom upwards the (The document read as follows): same amount of tax will be paid on that 

<graphic href="074131197111020_30_2.jpg"></graphic>

The interesting point is that these deductions are not allowed on a flat basis. They are allowed according to the marginal rate of tax that a particular person pays. In looking at the Schedule, which in essence we are sanctioning in this legislation, it will be seen from its structure that it is built from the bottom upwards in a series of layers, and no matter whether a person's income. In other words, the first band of income that is shown in the tax schedule falls between $417 and $499 and everybody in receipt of income within that range pays $4.50 plus 4.1c for each $1 in excess of the $417 and so on in the series of layers from the bottom upwards. But as far as the deductions to which the taxpayers are entitled are concerned, they come off the top layers of the income and therefore the higher the income the greater the value of the deduction. 
For instance, if a person happens to be in a range of taxable income between $16,000 and $20,000 the marginal rate of tax is 62.4c in the $1. If a person happens to be in a range of taxable income between $2,000 and $2,400 the marginal rate of tax is only 19.5c in the $1. But if the taxpayer is given an allowance for his wife nominally at $312 the tax value of it is $312 multiplied by 62.4c in the one case and $312 multiplied by 19.5c in the other, so that the higher the income the more significant is the real reduction of taxation. 
The statistics show, I think, that only something like one-third of all allowable concessions are allowed in respect of direct dependants - wives and children - and that the other amounts are a miscellany of items such as medical expenses, education expenses, life assurance and so on. But in total these aggregate more than do the claims for dependants. They have the effect, of course, of meaning more in tax terms the higher the income is. I want to use one example to illustrate this sort of thing by pointing to a particular item that has been amended in this Schedule, education expenses. I have been glad to see in recent times that the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and, I think, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  have drawn attention to the anomalies that exist in this matter. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a tabic which has also been drawn from a table in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation on Taxation Statistics. One deals with education expenses claimed by grade of actual income and the other deals with the number of children for whom deductions for education expenses were allowed by grade of taxable income. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows): 

<graphic href="074131197111020_31_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197111020_31_4.jpg"></graphic>

In making a calculation from the figures contained in those tables I will deal with those taxpayers who have actual incomes between $417 and $2,000. There were 135,000 children involved in claims by taxpayers whose incomes were within that range. The average claim was $60 a child. In the actual range of income from  $2,000  to $4,000 the education expenses claimed had a face value of $95m. This covered 1,174,000 children. The average claim was $80 a child. For those taxpayers whose income exceeded $4,000 the nominal value of education expenses claimed was $132m and the number of children covered was 1,265,000. The average claim was $100 a child. We simply ask at this point: Who is it that benefits when this Government increases, as it does  '.n  this Bill, the concessional claim from $300 to $400 for each child for education expenses, which broadly cover fees, fares, books, uniforms, when by far the greatest number of claims now made for children barely average more than $100 a child? Who is it that gains the advantage from this provision which, according to the estimates for the full year, will cost the Commonwealth something like $6m in extra revenue forgone? lt is a very, very select group indeed. lt is estimated that the loss to revenue by allowing the education expenses is somewhere of the order of S80m and that this will now be increased by a further $6m, but this concession will be regressive as far as the real benefit is concerned. By contrast to the $ 1, 000m to which I have referred and which is distributed in this rather regressive way - 1 repeat, this is for the year ended 30th June 1969 - is an item which appears in the Budget for the same year described as cash benefits to persons, namely, amounts paid by reason of social services, child endowment, medical and pharmaceutical benefits and so on. This item aggregated $1,600m compared to $ 1,000m which was lost to revenue in this way. 1 simply point out once more, as I have pointed out in this House for about 10 years, that the logic of the taxation system of deductions runs counter to the logic of social welfare. Child endowment is paid irrespective of the income of the parents, but the higher the income of the taxpayer, the more the taxation concession is worth. I have made the suggestion before as a sort of rough improvement in equity that if the concessions for dependants - that is, wives and children - were doubled for everybody - I accept the fact that they would be doubled for the wealthy as well as for the poor - and if all other deductions were eliminated the saving to revenue would be about $200m as a consequence and the majority of taxpayers were dependants, particularly those families where there there is only one breadwinner, would be advantaged if that were the case. I cannot conceive of anything more absurd in a democratic system than what happens to what are described as medical payments. First of all, the taxpayer is allowed a concessional deduction for the contribution he pays to a medical benefits association. Again, the higher his income, the higher the level of benefit to which he will be entitled and the higher his real tax advantage when he claims the item as an expense. If a person is unfortunate enough to be ill - there are some rather interesting figures in a separate table of the Commissioner's report, which I do not have time to analyse but which are worthy of consideration - he incurs a medical bill, pays it and then applies to the medical benefits fund for a refund, and any difference between what was paid and what is reimbursed can be claimed as a taxation deduction. There is no doubt that, under that system, the higher one's income, the less is the real cost of an operation. 
How anybody can justify this sort of thing in a system of social welfare is, to my mind, the height of absurdity, yet the same sort of thing is repeated in some of the other deductions that are currently allowed. 1 maintain that the greatest barrier to the development of an adequate social welfare system in this country is the loss of revenue that is built into the income tax structure by reason of this higgledy-piggledy array of deductions that have been built up applied originally in the main to dependants but only one-third of which now cover dependants while the rest are a ragbag of assortments. There is not much logic as to what is included and what is not included but what is included tends to favour the person with the highest income. If a person is fortunate enough to be able to save about $25 a week out of his income and contributes that amount to a life assurance scheme or a superannuation scheme, why should he be blessed by the Taxation Branch for so doing? Again, this is implicit in the present structure. 
Honourable members should ponder this report and look at the levels of income and at where the majority of these expenses fall. They should look at those people who were unfortunate enough last year to incure medical expenses in excess of $1,000 - there are quite a number of them listed in the table - and look at the incidence of those people who earn higher incomes as compared with those in the low income bracket. There is no doubt that a person can afford to get sick if his income is high enough but if a person is unfortunate enough to become ill and he has a low income, he will not get the sort of financial benefit to which his illness would suggest he is entitled. The thing that determines his benefit is the level of his income. This kind of approach exists throughout the income tax. structure. This tax is supposed to be progressive and equitable. I think for the last 4 budgets we have heard 
Government supporters say 'We will restructure the tax system'. The Government is not restructuring it at all. What it  'S  doing is perpetuating this system of deductions; taxation increases are imposed on a flat percentage basis, over and above what is already a regressive pattern and somehow that is regarded as serving the needs of the nation. 
The Government should start again in its consideration of taxation; it may be that the present system should be tossed aside. Personally, the system I favour is that which would allow a minimum deduction of, say, $500 to everybody, irrespective of his income. A further deduction of $500 should be allowed for his wife, so that a married man would pay no income tax unless his income exceeded $1,000. There would be additional deductions for children. If there were a proper medical benefits scheme and a proper child endowment scheme there would be no need to worry about whether a taxpayer is allowed concessions for children or for medical items and so on. It may be that a higher rate of taxation might apply on the residue of what was then taxable income, but at least this system would more equitably spread the total tax burden. I hope, as was indicated in a reply to a question asked recently by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  that the Treasurer is looking into this matter. The present Treasurer said recently that this examination is not yet completed but I hope that this will be done fairly quickly so that equity may be restored to the system. Available revenue would be increased which could well lead to the establishment of a better pattern of social welfare that would be according to need and not according to income. The principle of the higher the income, the greater the benefit seems to me to be the reverse of any kind of democratic standard. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Social Services and the Department of Repatriation I wish to say that I believe the Government's record in these fields is a very good one and it has been particularly good in the period we have under review. Just before proceeding to put forward the ideas that I have on this subject, I would like to deal with something that was mentioned by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  He criticised the Government's record over the last 20 years. I will quote a few figures to refute his argument. I will take, as a base, June 1949, a time that is often used as a basis for comparison, and use the figure 100 as a measurement base. The maximum rate of age and invalid pension is 376.S whereas the consumer price index, with a base year of 1966-67, readjusted to 1949, is now 254.3. So pension rates have increased considerably faster than the consumer price index over that period. Taking the basic wage and using the figure of 100 as a measurement base and the base year of 1949, the average wage is now 374 whereas age and invalid pensions are now 376. So gauged in this way they have also kept pace. 
It is true that average weekly earnings have increased at a faster rate but mat is because a lot of overtime has been paid. That is the argument that was used by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  but he chose that particular line of argument because overtime has made this an unreal comparison. But in comparison with the basic wage honourable members will find that pensions have kept pace. I think that is a fair comparison and the consumer price index shows that the pensioners have a considerable advantage. I believe the accusation that the Government has not shown a good record over the last 20 years can be completely refuted. 
In referring to the national superannuation scheme the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  mentioned that the Australian Labor Party was the only party which would be able to bring in such a scheme. What he in fact said was that Labor would conduct an inquiry. Apparently Labor does not have the scheme that it is talking about so much because it must have an inquiry before such a scheme is introduced. I believe that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the Government are keen to provide a national superannuation scheme if it can be brought into being consistent with reasonable economies. I support that idea. I believe that if it is possible to bring in a national superannuation scheme it should be introduced, but it will have to be brought in in a way which will allow it to be incorporated into our economy without placing an undue strain on the community generally. For that reason it may have to be introduced in stages. 
I agree with the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  that the Minister for Social Services has given it very serious consideration. I also agree with the honourable member that if a scheme which is economically sound can be introduced the Minister will do so. I believe too that no-one is more interested than he in doing that. I have already mentioned the basis upon which I refute the charge that the Government has not kept faith with the pensioners, but at the same time T agree that much more remains to be done. We are not doing as much as the pensioners need to enable them to live at a standard we would all like to see in the dignity that they deserve. But I want to emphasise that I believe that this is something that could be very gravely undermined if the Opposition ever got into office. It must be borne in mind that the very heavy cost of adequate pensions can only be provided by a country enjoying national prosperity, because it is from this prosperity that will come the revenue needed to provide the pensions that we would all like to see. Despite the lack of prosperity in rural industries, due largely to rising costs, low world prices and drought conditions, prosperity has been maintained in this country, lt has been maintained by sound Government measures. This is something that is very rarely conceded, but it is something that has happened. We see, when we look at world conditions, just how greatly overseas investment is attracted to this country. This is due to the fact that we have an economy which is recognised throughout the world as being particularly sound. 
Pension increases this year have been higher than in past years and I commend the Government for this. The increase in the single rate and in the pension for A class widows pension was Si. 25. There were many other increases perhaps slightly lower than that. There was an increase of $1 in the married rate, in the rate of B class widows and in the wife's allowance. But the total social service bill will amount to over $l,182m, an increase of 141 per cent over the expenditure for 1970-71. One point I want to make in regard to the way in which these rates have increased is that the percentage rate of increase has been much higher last year than it has been in recent years. Again taking the consumer price index as a base, between  1970  and  1971  it rose by  5.4  per cent while the standard pension rate rose by  11.3  per cent. So there are many aspects which can be used as a guide to show just how advanced has been the programme of this Government in regard to pensions. I compliment the Minister and the Government on what they have achieved. 
Before  1  conclude  1  want to say a word about repatriation. I would like to quote from the 'Journal' of the Queensland branch of the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers Association of Australia. The editorial states: 
Let it be our pledge that they who made the supreme sacrifice will not be forgotten and they who suffer will be aided to the full. 
I believe that this should be the aim and objective of . governments and I believe that in the recent Budget we have seen the best step in that direction that has been taken in recent times. Because I do not have time to develop it any further I would like to quote a couple of instances in the repatriation field that show just what benefits have accrued to the TPI pensioners. I know that the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  did quote some other instances. A married TPI pensioner with  2  children will make a net gain of no less than  $5.12  while a widow with  2  children will gain  $6.65.  This is a very considerable advance, and as in the case of social services - as mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech - the greatest benefit shall accrue to the area of greatest need. This has been followed by the efforts made in the field of repatriation. I would like to pay a tribute to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  although he is not here, for the work he has done during the time he has been Minister. I believe his finest effort has been in increasing TPI pensions. I do not have time to go through the whole list. He has even been commended by honourable members opposite. I believe that actions speak louder than words. I believe that if pensioners in all categories have not, as a result of this Budget, received all that we would like them to have received, they have been given every reason to look forward with real hope to the future. 
In speaking to the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department I would first of all like to congratulate the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and the Government on the progress that has been made throughout the full breadth of this very important Department. One of the factors, though, that caused concern for some areas was the proposal for the reorganisation of the Australian Post Office telecommunication activities. The PostmasterGeneral's Department provides employment for many people in some country towns, and the great problem that arose was that particular towns were to be placed at a great disadvantage because they were to lose a number of these people as they were to be moved to other areas where area management headquarters were to be established. It is very pleasing to note that the Minister, after receiving representations from honourable members concerned and from other people interested in the development of their areas, decided to make a very substantial alteration to proposals for withdrawing staff from country towns so that now two-thirds of the staff that it was proposed to move will remain where they are at present. This indicates that the Minister and the Government are prepared to consider not only the needs of the Department but the needs of the areas which the Department serves. 
I draw attention to the fact that the Government as a whole advocates decentralisation. We do not have a ministry for decentralisation, and if we are to have decentralisation it will have to be achieved through the departments that are already under the control of the Government. I was very pleased indeed to see the PostmasterGeneral accept this principle while retaining quite a considerable amount of the benefit which it is proposed to obtain through the change in area management. I hope that the full benefits of the proposal will be obtained and that at the same time PMG staff will be retained in the towns from which they were to be transferred. 
I believe that Roma, in my own electorate, had a special claim for consideration. It is some 300 miles west of Brisbane and is well inland by comparison with most other centres. Roma is an ideal area from which to provide PMG services, and 1 am hoping that the Postmaster-General, after the appointment of area managers and taking into consideration all the arguments that have been placed before him, will consider it in the siting of area headquarters. In the light of his co-operation with those people and honourable members who have made representations to him, I am hopeful that this will be arranged and that we will be able to provide all or most of the benefits of a reorganisation and at the same time help our decentralisation move. We have only to look at the cost of establishing people in larger cities to see the advantage of maintaining a degree of decentralisation. 1 would like to quote a couple of statements that were attributed to  Mr L.  G. Rowe, the  Chairman  of the Australian Telecommunications Development Association. He mentioned the tremendous size of the Australian Post Office and claimed that it had assets exceeding $2,400m which were increasing by about $400tn a year, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  the Assistant Minister assisting the PostmasterGeneral. One or two of his other comments are worth noting. He said that the Australian Post Office bought about $200m worth of telecommunication materials a year, of which about 90 per cent was spent with Australian firms. This is to the credit of the Postmaster-General's Department and to Australian industry. He went on to say that the partnership between the Post Office and manufacturing industry in providing Australia with world class communications had become even more vital in an area of startlingly rapid technological development. I believe that in this field Australia has a lot for which to take credit, and T think that that credit should be shared by the Minister and the Government.  Mr Rowe  said that wage increases outstrip productivity increases in spite of all that is being done to increase productivity. The productivity increase that has been obtained in the Postmaster-General's Department serves as a good warning that we can easily outstrip our productivity to the great disadvantage of the people who are employed in this industry and indeed in any other industry. 
I would like to draw to the attention of the Minister a couple of other points. 1 have mentioned before the great disadvantage of people in remote areas under the present extended local service area system, because they do not have the number of people with which to communicate as do people in areas of similar size in more closely settled areas. I hope that further consideration will be given to the expansion of the size of those areas which are established so far from the more closely settled areas and which, as I said, have comparatively few people. These people are a very deserving section of the community, and I hope that consideration will be given to providing them with larger local service areas so that they may make local calls to towns where medical and professional services are available or to the main business centre and so that they will receive a service in line with services provided in other areas. I support my colleague, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  in his commendation of the non-official post offices and the people who staff them. They have given great service to the community and I hope that what can be done for them will be done and that they will be given every consideration by the Department. 1 should like to refer to television in our western areas. I appreciate the fact that this has been provided for a number of towns, but the programme has fallen behind schedule. My colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  joins with me in this plea. We would like to see this programme expedited because the television services serve not only those towns which are on the programme but other towns as well. The town of Quilpie is a pretty good example. It is a town of some 800 or 900 people and is well away from any other amenity but it is not even on the programme. So I look very expectantly to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  for his assistance in expediting this programme. One other point to which I wish to refer is the application which was made by Darling Downs Television Ltd for a licence to provide commercial television to Roma. This application was made approximately 12 months ago and the company has received no final answer to the application. 1 consider that that length of time is excessive. In the meantime the costs are rising and it could result in making this an uneconomic proposition. 
This television station would serve the decentralisation programme, as I mentioned, without any cost to the Government. I know, because I have been in touch with the Minister and members of his Department, that there are technical problems. Translator transmission requires channels for each translator. However, I wonder whether those extra channels in that area would have an adverse effect on other areas. I hope that this will be given more consideration because it is of vital importance to those people to have television and if a commercial television station can be established in that area it will be of benefit to them and it will help decentralisation. The company is prepared to provide the station and I urge the Postmaster-General to try to arrive at a favourable decision to enable this amenity to be provided. Finally,' I again congratulate the Department on what it has achieved in a quickly developing technological age. I hope we will be able to see those benefits expanding more and more into the outlying areas of my own State of Queensland and throughout Australia. 
The estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation have great importance for a large area of the Commonwealth if not for the large proportion of the Australian population because civil aviation affects almost the whole of the Commonwealth. It is interesting to note that Trans-Australia Airlines has increased its operating profit from $1,367,000 to 30th June 1970 to $1,827,000 to 30th June 1971. Although, this increased profit has been brought about by increases in charges, nevertheless it is a good result from an organisation which provides a fine service throughout much of Australia. It has made this profit despite the fact that it has operated services which have not shown profits. 1 refer, of course, to services to outlying areas. In my own area Trans-Australia Airlines has, in the main, maintained services which have been provided for many years although in some places there has been some slight reduction in the frequency of services. Some odd places have been deprived of air services but, generally speaking, the outlying areas have been well catered for. 
The air service formerly operated by Ansett Airlines of Australia to Cunnamulla from Brisbane is an important service and the Ansett organisation has come to an agreement under which Nationwide Air Services Pty Ltd will provide this service. Up to the present stage a reasonably good passenger service has been supplied but since the aircraft operating on that route have been changed from Fokker Friendships to twin-engined Cessnas there is not sufficient room for the freight that is required to becarried. For instance, it is difficult to carry motor windscreens in Cessna aircraft, yet windscreens are often needed urgently in outlying areas. However, I appreciate that the Department of Civil Aviation, in conjunction with Ansett Airlines, has arranged the substitution of Nationwide Air Services on this route. 
I am pleased to note that in the Goondiwindi area the service which was reduced to twice a week has been increased to 3 times a week. St George, which is a refuel ling station, was getting 7 services a week but now it get 6 services. This is a frequency which would be the envy of many country towns. Adverting to the taking over of the Cunnamulla service by Nationwide Air Services, I should mention that it was understood that Ansett Airlines would be prepared to provide Friendship aircraft when the need arose, particularly during school holidays, but I have been informed that people who have children at schools away from Cunnamulla have not been able to make such an arrangement. I should hope that Ansett Airlines would give this matter serious consideration and perhaps would seek the co-operation of secondary schools which might combine in arranging for vacations to commence over 2 days to enable Friendship aircraft to be an economic proposition. I do not know whether it is because of seat occupancy or because Friendship aircraft are not readily available that arrangements have not been made, but I hope that the Ansett organisation will confer with Nationwide Air Services and provide a Friendship service to cater for the deserving need of bringing children and .students to and from schools. 
I make no apology for talking about these areas, and they may be typical of other areas. The town of Bollon, which is situated almost midway between St George and Cunnamulla, was serviced by Ansett Airlines, but it now has no air service. I would suggest that Nationwide Air Services should examine the possibility of restoring a service to Bollon because it would be economic for the small planes that are now servicing Cunnamulla to land in a small town like Bollon. The cost of operating a Friendship to that town would be far more than the cost of using a Cessna. I hope that for the sake of the residents of Bollon and district and the student? who have to travel between St George and Cunnamulla such a service will be provided. However I am grateful that services have been maintained in this general area, f know that services have been discontinued in other areas, and my colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy  'Mr Katter),  will refer to this matter when he speaks during this debate. He is extremely concerned because some areas in his electorate have been deprived of air services. I think this is something that we have to watch. 
As we have a 2-airline system, I believe that we should look to the major airlines to provide, even at some cost to themselves, services in outlying areas. I would like to know just how much a third airline would be prepared to pay to enter the transport field between the major capital cities of the Commonwealth. The airline business is reasonably profitable. I congratulate TransAustralia Airlines on making a profit, but in a country where we need to decentralise and where we need to utilise our natural resources - and we will not utilise them if we continue to cut back on the services and amenities provided in outlying areas - the question arises as to who should bear the cost of carrying out these proposals. I suggest that as we give an advantage to the 2 airline operators and as air transport in Australia is confined to the 2-airline system, the airlines should recompense the Australian people for the protection which is afforded to them by providing services which may not be as profitable as the services on the major routes. 
I think that the Department of Civil Aviation is to be commended for our safety record, and I also commend the Department and the airline operators for the splendid standard of services which are provided throughout Australia, which is a country of great distances and sparsely settled population. I believe that if we can provide essential services to people in outlying areas to carry them over a time of great trial we will be able to retain people in the outback and mid-outback areas of Australia. There is a tremendous drift of population from these areas, for a number of reasons. One of the reasons which contributes to this drift is the lack of satisfactory air services. I mentioned earlier - and I emphasise it again - the great advantage of air services for children and students. They are able to travel backwards and forwards on planes when there is no other suitable public transport. While commending the airline operators generally in Australia, I hope that they will continue to provide services which the people who live in the areas I have mentioned are justly entitled to receive. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that prominent mining executives, bankers, industrialists as well as leaders of rural industry now advocate a devaluation of the 
Australian dollar? Have the advantages of devaluation and its assistance to export industry now in urgent need of this assistance been fully considered by the Government in relation to the present economic policy of the United States of America? 
ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197111250_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

I think the first mistake that perhaps the Government has made - certainly some of my colleagues in discussions with me have said this - is to compare an excise on wine with an excise on, say, tobacco or petrol. There are no clear competitors to petrol or tobacco and any initial consumer resistance is then fairly rapidly overcome once people have forgotten their intention not to drive the car more than once on a weekend or perhaps to give up smoking. Secondly if we look at beer, which is, of course, the most serious of wine's competitors, particularly at flagon or bulk level, the supply of the raw material to the beer industry can quickly be equated with demand, it is adjustable, but this is not so in the case of wine grapes which are planted by a farmer as an investment in the future and he cannot control from year to year or from time to time the supply to meet an altered demand. The introduction of this excise was a tragedy to many people. Wine grapes are not annual crops like barley or sugar nor, 'could I say, are they a fluid proposition such as water, the other ingredient in beer. 
Wine grape plantings have been carried out mainly by private enterprise based on current trends of - consumption, and furthermore based on an industry economic study by the firm of P-E Consultant Group (Aust) Pty Ltd. These consultants made it very plain to the industry in contradistinction to Government advice on the subject that a surplus was not likely in the wine industry until the mid-1970s. This did not worry the industry very much because at that time it had not commenced any promotion scheme whatsoever. All honourable members will be well aware of the huge amount of money that has been poured into wine promotion, as luck would have it, since the excise was introduced by the Government in the 1970 Budget. So a loss of 11.3 per cent on anticipated trends, which I maintain is significant, may well now have been in excess of 20 per cent if it had not been for the industry's own action in increasing promotion and advertising. 
The next point I make is that the wine industry, in contradistinction to industries such as the beer industry, is a fully integrated industry. This means there is a clear relationship between the grower and perhaps the co-operative, or even the proprietor, and under these conditions the grower at the opposite end of the spectrum to the final retailer is the one who is going to receive the real handicap in terms of the action taken. Dairying, tobacco, sugar and even wheal - and now wool - are subsidised by the taxpayer. I am not now arguing that they should not be when manufacturing industries receive perhaps 4 or 5 times as much protection. But not only does the wine industry receive no help, it also suffers a positive disadvantage by having to stand an excise. The manufacturer is hurt by loss in turnover and increasing costs, but the grower of wine grapes faces the full onus of the levy if he cannot sell his grapes, grapes planted not as a crop, as I have explained, but as a long term investment based on growth trends of greater than 10 per cent per annum over a decade, growth based on a likelihood of greater consumption per head, as the figures I have would show. I seek leave once again to have incorporated in Hansard the figures showing wholesale sales per head of population. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197111250_15_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="075131197111250_15_2.jpg"></graphic>

Serious although these matters might be, they pale into virtual insignificance beside the likelihood of only limited capacity being available for the 1972 crop. In South Australia 7 co-operative companies took in the following tonnage of grapes: In 1970, 90,000 tons, 1971, 68,000 tons and in reply to a questionnaire sent out recently, demand for 1972 looks like being 50,000 tons. If this is so, and the harvest eventuates as forecast, then 20,000 to 25,000 tons of grapes will be unsold. This is the principal danger to growers, and it has been forced on them, I maintain, through a thoughtless form of action. Now that some danger has occurred, for goodness sake let us act before any further damage is realised. There is not one bit of damage that I forecast personally 12 months ago that has not been realised while we have waited around for the statistical information on which to base a case. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table which sets out wine consumption figures from 1964 to the present date. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197111250_16_3.jpg"></graphic>

J have attempted this morning in as moderate a fashion as I could to put forward a case to justify my motion which I regard as a good one. The excise, I think, is a thoroughly reprehensible, ill thought out piece of bureaucratic nonsense which is questionable as regards the effectiveness of its yield and is quite illogical in its application. My intention in future will be to reintroduce motions such as this one from time to time and until such time as this discriminatory form of tax is lifted or at least until consumer resistance, brought about by this action, is overcome. I commend my motion to the House and ask the Government to give relief along the lines 1 have suggested as rapidly as possible. 
In the last minute available to me in this debate I will point out one more thing that bears on politics. After all, this is why we are here. One of my friends in the wine industry has for some time been in touch with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  but he has had no satisfaction as to whether the Australian Labor Party, if it were in power, would abolish this tax. I advise all people listening to this debate to be very wary before they fall for any hollow excuse which may be put forward by the Labor Party today. (Quorum formed.) 

Is the motion seconded? 
Order. The honourable member's time has expired. 
 First of all, referring to the amendment that has been moved, I think everyone would be very pleased if fees in colleges of advanced education could be abolished without having to place undue strain on the economics of education generally. This is the problem with which we are faced in trying to provide funds in the many avenues of education into which the Commonwealth is now being drawn. The Commonwealth has been particularly active in the field of tertiary education, which is the field with which the Bills we are discussing tonight are concerned. I draw attention to the second reading speech of the former Minister for Education and Science on the State Grants (Advanced Education) Bill in which he said: 
The main purpose of the Bill before the House is to appropriate additional grants in order that the Commonwealth might meet its share of the cost of the new levels of academic salaries in colleges of advanced education under the accepted matching formula. The need to provide these supplementary grants has arisen from the salary increases awarded in the 1970 national wage case. 
These remarks emphasise the fact that these things do not come alone and that the cost of increases in wages, however justified those increases might be, still have to be met. This requires more and more finance. If we are to move into other fields that require finance there must be a limit. If there is not, the cost to the community will be very heavy or there will be restrictions in Commonwealth expenditure in other fields. However I accept the fact that the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill simply allows the Commonwealth to carry on as it has been. It has accepted the principle that it should provide its share of the increases and it has fulfilled its obligation in this regard. The cost for the  1970- 72  triennium though is fairly high. The cost of all increases in academic salaries provided for in the Bill will be over Sim and the cost in the financial year  1971-72  will be over  $750,000.  However, the Government is willing to join with the States by making supplementary grants to them and thereby meeting its obligations in that field. 
The problem, as I mentioned before, is that in addition to meeting these costs we have to remember that the Commonwealth will be asked to support the States in other fields of education. I mention particularly the difficulties of people in outlying areas. As a result of these difficulties they have got together and formed an association which is called the Isolated Children Parents Association with the subject of getting assistance from both the States and the Commonwealth to provide some sort of education for their children. The Commonwealth will be called upon, and I believe very justly called upon, to provide extra finance for that purpose. 
I agree with those honourable members who have spoken already that the Australian Commission on Advanced Education Bill is probably the most important of the Bills we are considering in this cognate debate. I pay a tribute to the work that is being done by colleges of advanced education. I am, however, more conversant with the work of the Queensland Institute of Technology (Darling Downs) at Toowoomba which has gone from strength to strength. Much support was given to its establishment. An earnest endeavour had been made to secure a university for that area but the Institute of Technology is providing a wonderful service not only for Toowoomba and its immediate surrounds but also for far flung areas west of Toowoomba. It is meeting the needs for tertiary education. The availability of accommodation in Toowoomba has enabled many students from outlying areas to attend that institution. In the early stages of its operations the fees were reasonable and enabled many students to take advantage of tertiary education which they would not have been able to avail themselves of had it not been for this Institute of Technology. Undoubtedly these remarks would apply equally to other institutes of technology and to colleges of advanced education in other areas. I might mention also that for many years great work has been done by the Queensland Agricultural College at Lawes. 
Mention has been made of the cost of education. It is easy for people to ask continuously for the expenditure of money on education. I am not suggesting for one moment that education is not one of the most important avenues for government expenditure. We must keep pace with the educational needs of our nation. We must keep pace with the educational progress that we see evidenced throughout the world and it is essential that large sums be made available in all fields of education, not only for tertiary education. As has been mentioned, the programme for the 1967-69 triennium cost more than $100m and it is proposed that for the 1970-72 triennium expenditure will exceed $250m. These are large sums and it must be remembered that in the conduct of government there is need to supervise expenditure to ensure that money is available for essential requirements. In my opinion education ranks high among our requirements. 
The purpose of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education Bill  rs  to give effect to a decision to establish a new statutory body to be called the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. I do not want to repeat what has been said already, because the hour is late, but it is gratifying to see a continuing and increasing interest by the Commonwealth Government in the fields of education because without such interest Australia would not be able to progress. I hope that the community at large gives credit to the Government for the steps it has taken to increase educational standards in the community. The Commonwealth Government moved ato the field of advanced education as a result of its acceptance of the recommendations of the Martin Committee which advocated the establishment of this new type of institution in the field of tertiary education. I believe that the establishment of colleges of advanced education has been a wonderful success particularly in those areas where it has not been possible to establish universities. I am pleased to note that the Australian Universities Commision and the proposed Australian Commission on Advanced Education will be working in co-operation, I believe to -the benefit of tertiary education generally. Like the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  who preceded me in this debate, I could talk for a long time on the many aspects of this legislation, but  I  know that honourable members generally will be confining their remarks. In that spirit, although I feel that there is a lot more to be said about this legislation, I will confine my remarks to what I have already said and just give my support, which I am sure all people who are concerned about the progress of education in Australia also would do, to the legislation before the House. 
Friday, 26 November 1971 
We have just listened to an address from the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  He questioned the arithmetic of the honourable member for . Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  in assessing the fantastic cost of the educational programme which was outlined by the Opposition. It is very easy when in Opposition to say that one will provide everything without worrying about how these things are to be financed. I know that this argument is sometimes ridiculed by our friends opposite. The honourable member for Wills said something to this effect: 'What about doing with one less Fill?' The Opposition always makes the cry: 'We will cut down on our defence expenditure to provide for expenditure in other fields'. As far as I am concerned and as far as the Government is concerned, we want adequate defence for this country and we want adequate education facilities, too. But we have to provide both and therefore as a responsible government we have the problem of seeing that we do the best for the people and that we do not cut our defence expenditure so as to jeopardise the security of this country. 
The honourable member for Wills also stressed the need for an educational survey in depth. I wonder whether he has ever heard of the nationwide survey on educational needs which has taken place and a report on which was presented to the Parliament in summary form I think in September 1970. I think he should have a look at that. Listening to the speech he has made one would think that the Commonwealth had the sole responsibility for providing funds for education whereas in fact it is largely the responsibility of the State governments. The Commonwealth, realising the problem and realising the necessity of giving support to the State governments' educational programme, has given them financial assistance to an ever increasing degree, and I am sure it will continue to do that. 
I agree with quite a number of speakers that libraries are a fundamental factor in education generally.  A  better educational system is provided in our schools if the libraries are up to the high standard that the Commonwealth Government desires them to be and for which it has provided these funds. Libraries also provide possibly the best avenue for self help in the educational field that we can provide, so it has been of great benefit to secondary schools to have these libraries brought up to the standard that they have been brought up to in those schools that have had the benefit of this assistance. 
I believe the Government is to be very warmly commended on continuing its programme and increasing the amount it makes available for secondary school libraries to $30m for the next 3 years from 1972 to 1974. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Griffith in his speech made the point that the amount of $1,358,000 that is being made available to Queensland is for I year. The total amount under this Bill for the purposes of providing libraries in Queensland is no less than $4,015,151, but the honourable member for Griffith was right about the amount that is being paid for 1 year. 1 heard the honourable member for Wills say that the Government had no concern for the threequarters of the student population who are in State schools. Let me point out that of this $30m that is being made available no less than $22,536,338 will go to government schools, ls this not giving consideration to all sections of the student population? 
I believe that it is quite wrong in discussing a Bill such as this to suggest for one moment that the Government is neglecting the government schools in particular. The honourable member for Wills might claim that he was going into the wider field of the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition to establish a schools commission to advise the Commonwealth Government on all forms of assistance necessary to bring all primary and secondary schools to an acceptable standard. The bringing up to an acceptable standard of all schools is an ideal to which we would all subscribe. It is just a matter of being able physically to accomplish everything we desire in this and many other fields. There can be no question that in tackling the problem of providing. libraries to secondary schools, both government and independent, the Commonwealth has done a job that has hit on a section of education which needed special attention, and that is pretty largely what the Commonwealth has aspired to do. It has looked at the educational field. It has endeavoured then to give assistance where it felt is was most needed, and very largely, of course, in the earlier stages this assistance was given to tertiary education. It is very pleasing to me to see this assistance being given to secondary schools. ft might be worth while to mention - I will probably be accused of looking at this in a parochial fashion - that in my vast territory we do not get direct benefit from a university. We do have the advantage of a college of advanced education at Toowoomba which serves a big area. But there aire secondary schools scattered round the countryside, and the children attending those schools are deserving of assistance to enable them to reach a standard of education which will in turn allow them to take advantage of the assistance given at the tertiary level of education.  1  think that the Commonwealth is to be commended on the effort that it has made to provide those educational facilities for which it felt there was probably the most need from a national point of view. 
Expenditure on education generally has increased tremendously over recent years, and the assistance that the Commonwealth. Government has given in the field of education has enabled this programme to be continued and developed. I want to support the suggestion that has been made in this debate that the provision of libraries should be extended to our primary schools. When I refer-to primary schools I mean all primary schools. I believe there is a need for libraries in primary schools, and these libraries will continue the line which will enable students generally to take advantage of the special provisions that are being made under this Bill and indeed under the Government's educational programme generally. I am quite confident that the Commonwealth Government will have to take a continuing and increasing part in providing finance for our education generally. There are areas which need assistance now. Only recently people in these areas have formed an organisation known as the Isolated 
Children's Parents Association, which is appealing to State governments and to the Commonwealth Government for assistance. Again  1  stress the point that unless assistance is given and students in these areas can be given the opportunity to get a grounding in education they will not be able to take the advantage that they should be able to take of the educational facilities that are provided by the State governments, which are supported by the Federal Government in the amount of money that has been made available to them. 
One of the ways in which assistance can be given - f believe it is a method that we could expand if we are to continue our assistance to schools - is by increasing the per capita payment. I mentioned an increasing expenditure on education generally. In my own State of Queensland there has been an increase in total expenditure on education of 21 per cent, and there has been quite an increase in the education allocations of all the States. This is all to the good. I believe the per capita grants are of valuable assistance to education generally. The Queensland Government in its Budget increased the per capita grants from $25 to $45 per annum for primary school students and from $67 to $77 for secondary school students. T believe this is one of the fields in which we can provide finance without necessarily tying it to a particular measure. I believe the' Commonwealth should give assistance generally, including assistance to those independent schools which are in need of it while at the same time providing the facilities that are needed, in special areas, including libraries for secondary schools which is the main feature of the Bill that we are discussing. .  
The importance of the assistance1 can be gauged from the great financial problem that is confronting independent schools. I am nol detracting from the needs of government schools in this field, but the Government has been criticised for trying to look after that quarter - the students who do not attend government schools. Unless we do give assistance to the- independent schools we will have them all under a State system of education. Therefore it is wise from every angle to give them the assistance that they so certainly deserve.  I  have bad approaches from independent schools - not only Catholic schools - in my electorate stressing the need for this assistance if they are to carry on. I have visited schools, both State and independent, whore library facilities have been provided. This has been a great advantage to them. I hope this type of assistance will be continued. I believe that we must provide the right type of assistance. I am quite happy to see surveys made and assistance provided as a result of the needs which are shown, but I point out that this has been done. 
There is a great deal one could say on the subject of education. I have shortened my remarks considerably because I understand that there is a desire to get through the business before the House. For that reason I intend to limit my remarks to the time that I have occupied. I certainly feel there is a tremendous need for a continuing expansion of Commonwealth participation in education. In line with that I trust that the State governments also will continue to expand their expenditure on education to enable the students of this country to have the standard of education that we all so earnestly desire them to have. 
Is the Treasurer aware of the financial difficulties being experienced by many local government authorities, particularly those in rural areas? If he is aware Of these difficulties, does the Government intend to take any action to assist in relieving them? 
 I want to draw attention to one or two matters which I believe should be ventilated. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has suggested equality of opportunity for all in education. I believe that one of the great needs in this field, if we are to provide equal opportunity for all, is to give' further assistance to the children of parents in isolated areas. I want to congratulate the parents of those children who have travelled great distances to form what is known in Queensland and New South Wales as the Isolated Children's Parents Association. A State branch was formed recently at Charleville in my electorate. There is a Federal body and I have had letters - I have quite a few of them here - from other Slates relating to this matter. I have mentioned it before. I know that the Federal body was formed at Bourke, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  He suggested that I should join him in a deputation to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on behalf of those people. It is something that I feel is very necessary and something that those of us who represent isolated areas would support. 
Many areas within the electorate of my friend and colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  would fall into that category. A number of those areas will have branches of this very worthwhile organisation before long. There are some there already. This is one field to which I am pleased to give publicity on this occasion because it is a deserving organisation. One of the reasons for the formation of this organisation is that there has been severe drought in some areas - the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  last night mentioned that there has been drought for 13 successive years - and the people just do not have the finance to be able io provide the school fees that arc being charged. I am not complaining about the increases in school fees because these are necessary to meet rising costs. I have a list of them here but it is not necessary to give them. It is enough to say that the parents are not able to cope with the fees that are being charged. What are we going to do about this? lt is a responsibility that rests perhaps more heavily on the State governments and I hope that they will give, very sympathetic consideration to the claims of this Organisation. At the moment 1 am preparing a submission to the Minister for Education and Science and I understand that other submissions will be made. So the claims of the organisation are getting attention and they deserve to get attention. 
The other matter that I would like to raise in this debate is the matter of television reception for people in isolated areas. I point out that when I speak on these matters I realise very fully that the measures I am asking for will not affect a great number of people, but they are a section of the community which is helping to promote the welfare of Australia generally, and they are utilising for the benefit of the community areas which are very difficult to utilise. If we are going to spend money on decentralisation, the need for which I have heard so often mentioned on both sides of the House, I suggest that the foundation of decentralisation is to maintain those people who are already in areas outside the metropolitan areas, more particularly in the wide open spaces. This is the fundamental base from which we might be able to build up a better programme of decentralisation. One of the things that the people in those areas miss most is television. They look for this with great enthusiasm and I compliment the Government on providing the programme which the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  has announced for an additional 38 translator stations, 10 of which are in  my  electorate. But I join with the honourable member for Kennedy in asking that this programme be expedited. 
There is one other point that I want to make, it concerns an area not quite so far outside the metropolitan area and relates to Darling Downs Television Ltd. That company has made application for a translator station to be provided at Roma which is some 300 miles west of Brisbane. The station would serve a comparatively closely settled area by comparison with areas further inland and the company is prepared to put up this translator station. The application has been lodged for nearly 12 months. It has been examined by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board but there is difficulty in providing the channels because every translator station requires another channel. I recognise the problem that confronts the Broadcasting Control Board in providing the extra channels which this type of translator would require. As 1 mentioned. Roma is some 300 miles inland and almost 200 miles from the station for which the translator would be provided. But here again one can only wonder whether it could not reasonably be suggested that there should be some limitation of channels in those areas where people are already well provided with them in order to give some consideration to people who live in the great pastoral areas and also to those who live in the marginal pastoral and agricultural areas, as in this case. 
With this kind of approach not only would we get the entertainment value that television provides but also the educational value. 
I wish at times that the standards of debate in this House would be lifted a little so that the educational value to those people who listen to parliamentary broadcasts would be improved. Without referring to anyone in particular I think we should all take note that there is a need for us to lift the standard of parliamentary debates in this, the national Parliament. As I said, not only is there the entertainment value of television but also the educational value. 1 have pointed out on other occasions, and I want to stress this again, that we should try to do all that we can to help these children who are so much in need of education if we are genuine and sincere in our endeavours to provide equal opportunities for all children. The time that is lost in the early stages of a child's education cannot be picked up later on when the child is in need of education, but television is one way of assisting in this direction. We must continue to try to provide children with a foundation in education which will enable them to take full advantage of the money which is being expended on education by both State governments and the Commonwealth Government. It is becoming more and more important to lift the standard of education of all Australians. 1 have tremendous sympathy for the people who live in outback areas. I have no personal complaint because 1 live at Miles, where we do get satisfactory television reception, and where we do get satisfactory broadcasting or radio reception. But there are areas that do not have these facilities. 
It is my intention in this debate to draw attention to the needs of the people in these areas.I am asking the members of this Parliament to look beyond the needs of the people whom they individually represent in this place. It would not cost the general community a great deal to provide a translator station of the type I have spoken about in these areas where it is certainly needed. If we are to retain people in these areas we have to provide them with some modern amenities. The town of Bedourie, which is right on the border, is not even provided with telephone facilities. I know what a problem it is to provide telephones there, but I mention this to' show how serious the situation is. The gap between the people who live in those areas and the people who live in more closely settled areas is widening. If we are going to have measures to promote decentralisation then let us begin by doing everything within our power to retain the population we already have in these areas which are the types of areas in which we want to promote decentralisation. 
ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Whilst members of the Opposition commend the Bill to the House and will vole for it, we would like Government supporters to remember that when we are in Government next year and when we bring down a Bill in the following year that does not provide the full list of existing rates measured against the new rates, they would be lacking in their duty as members of  Her  Majesty's Opposition if they did not draw our attention to the deficiency. This should be done. They would be lacking in their duties if they did not tell us where there was a distortion in the wage or salary structure, what the distortion was and make us do what I believe the Government should be doing. With those few well chosen remarks, I conclude, and I hope that the Bill has a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt has raised a point nf order. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to bc followed. 
ls the amendment seconded? 
Because of the hour it is not my intention to talk on this Bill for so" long as I might have done, but there are a few points that I should like to make. I believe that probably the most important aspect of this Bill is the fact that the Tariff Board is to be provided with sufficient members and assistants to enable it to reach the most efficient decisions in the shortest possible time. The Bill moves in that direction; it is designed to achieve those objectives which obviously are needed. While I recognise that, 1 am still concerned that, even with the provisions in this Bill, too much time will be lost in the Tariff Board arriving at decisions. 1 commend the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Government  on bringing this Bill down, but I still believe that it just does not go far enough. I think that when there is a necessity to expedite the decisions of the Tariff Board, more will have to be done to ensure that decisions are reached more quickly. 
The difficulties and disadvantages in having tariff protection which has not been reviewed could be very great. Unless the tariff protection which is provided is reviewed and examined reasonably regularly, no-one can be sure whether the tariff protection that is being given is justified. Because of the high cost of tariff protection it is high time that we ensured that the protection which is provided is justified. 1 recognise the fact that tariff protection has to be provided, and this has been pointed out by most speakers, but it is essential that it be limited to that degree which will enable an efficient and economic industry to compete with the competition with which it is faced. If an industry docs that we will achieve all that tariff protection can achieve so far as the welfare of this country is concerned. 
If tariff protection is too high, it leaves avenues through which manufacturers can accede to the exorbitant demands of unions for higher wages, which in turn mean higher prices because manufacturers can pass on higher wages in the form of higher prices. Tariff protection allows this to be done. If the protection is too high, the cost comes back to the people, and among the people affected are primary producers who are suffering very severely as a result of conditions which are beyond the control of the Government. 1 refer to droughts and to low world prices for commodities. Primary producers cannot continue to carry rising costs without receiving further assistance from the Government. We must do everything in our power to control costs. 
If this review of the tariffs reveals that a reduction in tariffs can be made - 1 believe that it can - then everything that possibly can be done should be done to review those tariffs with the object of seeing what reductions can be made. 1 listened carefully to the case made out by the Opposition, but 1 found that it was very much in general terms. I was deeply disappointed to find that there was no blue print, no provision, no exact plan at all for implementing what the Opposition said should be done. The Opposition said that to retain tariffs which are significantly too high is indefensible, but it did not spell out the means to overcome the problem. Again in general terras the Opposition said that action should be taken where the tariff is too high. But the Opposition did not demonstrate that it had a method which would achieve that objective more efficiently than what the Government is doing, and 1 am sure that the Opposition cannot do so. After listening to the debate tonight and to the Opposition's proposals, J believe that the Opposition's main concern, despite what it has said, is to keep tariffs on the high side. lt is more concerned - to some extent I share its concern in this regard - about keeping employment at a high level. But the Opposition is not very deeply concerned about this question of high tariffs because it has not shown that it will do anything to reduce them, except to make some passing reference to them and to make platitudes about what should be done. Nothing is spelt out. but quite obviously there is the intention to see that these tariffs remain irrespective of whether they have to be paid by primary producers or anybody else. Irrespective of who will bear the costs that excessive tariffs can bring, that is the inten tion. 1 believe that the cost to primary producers of tariffs is still much higher than it ought to be. 
Honourable members opposite have cited figures, which are quite well known, on the protection available to individual Australian manufacturing industries in 1967-68. The figures range from nothing to 120 per cent, with an average rate of 46 per cent. According to the Tariff Board, the average rate of effective protection if fully utilised, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did say, could amount to $2,700m a year. But we know that that maximum is not attained. The honourable member referred to a figure of SI, 000m a year, but he did not tell us how he arrived at the figure or what was the source of his information. I suggest that the case made out by the Opposition tonight on the tariff structure has been nothing more than the statement of a few facts without a real plan. 
The Government is offering a method by which it can review tariffs. As I have already said in criticism of it, I do not think that it goes far enough, but it is a step in the right direction. The primary producers of this country in particular can look to this Bill with some hope for relief from the high measure of tariffs which exist. 
We do not want unemployed. We want a measure of protection which will enable efficient and economic industries to operate. This will keep people employed. A high tariff structure enables exorbitant demands for increased wages to be successful. For the benefit of the honourable member who interjected I repeat that great increases in wages help to price us out of some markets, but because we have tariff protection in this country some exorbitant wage demands are agreed to. lt is essential that the method of the Tariff Board advising the Government be streamlined and in this regard it may be necessary to appoint more members. We would envisage that an extra member of the Board would be given specialist work to do. There are plenty of areas in the field of tariffs in which a specialist could profitably employ his time as a full time member of the Board. For example - these may have been mentioned before - a specialist could concentrate on by-law admissions and cancellations and develop expertise in that field. There is room for that to be done. 
Such a specialist could also become more efficient through concentrating on dumping. The addition of goods to the schedules under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement should not. occupy the time of members of the Tariff Board. They would be better employed in conducting tariff reviews. Tariff classifications, values for duty, concessional admission of goods from developing countries and such matters, in my view are ones which could well be handled by a single member of the Board. 
I make the suggestion to the Minister that it would be preferable for one member of the Board to specialise in those areas. If necessary, another Board member should be appointed to cope with the backlog of reviews of tariffs that are so long overdue. As I intended, 1 have limited my time to half the period available to me. With all due modesty, 1 feel that in that time I have put to the Minister more sensible suggestions than were put by honourable members opposite in almost triple the time I . have taken. I commend the Bill with the qualification that perhaps more could be done. 

 Mr CREAN (Melbourne Ports) ) (1.20 a.m.)  -  I would like to say a few words about this Bill. According to the notes circulated by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  the main purpose of the Bill is to amend the Tariff Board Act to provide for an additional member of the Tariff Board and to provide for single-member boards to conduct inquiries and submit reports on certain matters. A lot of nonsense has been talked about the tariff. In fact, people talk about the tariff as though it were a pound of butter. The tariff that we are describing is something which protects approximately a quarter of the national income or the gross national product of Australia. It covers all of the goods that could be imported into Australia if we did not have the tariff. 
Everybody knows that over a great period of our history we have gone from a point where we were a nation of serfs and peasants entirely dependent on primary produce for our sustenance to a point  where.  as one of the smaller nations of the world, we manufacture more goods in aggregate than we produce in our primary industries. All that this Bill does ls to short circuit the way in which we determine the question of the tariff, if I may put it in that way. We are talking about the addition of one member to the Tariff Board. I am sorry that this Bill has come along at the dead end of the session. The Bill has been on the notice paper literally for months. However, it has been brought on at the dead of night at the end of the session. Honourable members are engaging in debate about primary production as against secondary production, and surely this is not the purpose of the Bill. 
Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented. 
Order! The point of order is upheld. I ask the honourable member for Sturt to refer to the Prime Minister as the right honourable the Prime Minister. 
Another matter I want to refer to is a point made by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who said that the Government has given no thought to unemployment relief for those who are unemployed as a result of Government inaction in this field. The Government ought to consider that it does a disservice to the nation.  1  believe and 1 am quite certain that there are older members on the other side who believe that the Government should recognise that it has run its race, it has run its time and it ought to vacate office in the interests of the people of this country generally. Finally [ want to say that there is nothing in the amendment moved by the Opposition which, if there is anything at all contained in the measure- 

 Mr O'KEEFE (Paterson)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 Is it the wish of the House to have a cognate debate on the 2 matters? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I want lo make some comments on the statement made by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I was one of those who pressed him very strongly into endeavouring to provide television for the western areas at the earliest possible moment. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that he had made representations to the Postmaster-General in this connection. If everyone had made representations to him on these matters as often as I have, his life would have been a pretty hard one. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and I really did press to get some statement from the Minister on this matter. 1 draw attention to the fact that he could have made these investigations and not made the statement that the stations' were to be provided until the investigation were more advanced. He would have been under less criticism for the delay that has apparently occurred as a result of his having made early the announcement that these 38 low-power stations at relatively remote centres will be provided. I give the Minister credit for having given us this information as early as it was possible for him to do so, under the pressure that was put on him for the statement to be made. 
I for one will give him credit for that. I have heard very little credit given to the Government for the fact that these 38 stations are to be provided. As the Minister said, this virtually doubles the number of stations in the national network, bringing the total to 82. It is a very big step forward. I appreciate very much, and I am sure that those people who have been advocating this have appreciated the fact that these stations are to be provided in those areas where television is very sorely needed, and where this benefit will be of much more importance than it is in areas which are provided with a number of channels and which have alternative means of entertainment and education. I will continue to ask the Postmaster-General to expedite this programme. I was pleased to note that in the last paragraph of his statement he said that he has, in addition to the programme mentioned there, asked the Department to remain alert to take advantage of any possibilities which may arise that could lead to earlier completion dates. 
One of the reasons why this is important and why we appreciate it is that there are still some areas which have not been provided for or which are not in the programme and which deserve to have television. Let rae mention Quilpie, a town of some size in my area, which is so far west that it is not able to be included in this programme. No doubt television for that area will be provided only when this programme is completed. The statement of the Postmaster-General gives an indication of his anxiety and that of the Government to expedite the provision of the stations that are to be provided under this programme. Already, as he stated, there are five which have come into operation. He gave the reasons for this. 
The need for television is very great. I have mentioned the different way of life of people living in remote areas and people living in the metropolitan areas, in regard to the amenities that are available and particularly education. Television helps to bridge this gap. The Government is to be very warmly commended. I appreciate the fact that the Postmaster-General has taken this step to promote this programme and to do all in his power and that of the Government to bring it to a conclusion and to provide these stations. In my area there has been agitation for a high-power station at Roma. Quite a number of representations have been made to the Minister along these lines. But the argument has been the cost related to the number of people that would be served. These 38 low-power stations are to be provided at a cost of some S5m. The cost per person has been pointed out by the Postmaster-General to be relatively high in comparison with the cost of providing television in the more closely settled areas and in the provincial and capital cities of the Commonwealth. At the same time I believe that there is a responsibility which the Government and the Postmaster-General have accepted, to carry that cost and to bring television to all towns of reasonable size right throughout this country. This is a very big step forward. 
The thing that was worrying us was the amount of delay that could occur. I think it can be understood that because of the difficulty of surveying and the amount of time that was taken a delay would have been possible, and that with the manpower problems that have been met with it would be quite understandable that a programme could get a bit behind. Those of us concerned with this matter have been striving very hard to get a programme completion date. Once again 1 express my appreciation for the fact that a target completion date has now been provided, and we will look forward to seeing that that target completion date is met if possible. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie suggested that he had some doubts about whether this would be met. I think all the PostmasterGeneral can do in this direction is set a programme and endeavour to do the best he can to expedite it. It is true that the honourable member for Dawson and I mentioned places that do not have television reception, but we know that the percentage of people who are being served by television Commonwealth-wide is very high. 
I welcome the statement by the PostmasterGeneral. I am sure it will be welcomed by all those people who will benefit, and I hope that we will see a further pro gramme on the completion of this one to provide those services which are not included in this programme. I congratulate the Postmaster-General and the Government on the steps that they have made, and I trust that the programme completion date se! out by the Postmaster-General now will be achieved. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="076131197202222_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

This Government has absolutely no conception of what it is like to try to keep a family on $70 a week. I challenge the Minister for Labour and National Service and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to demonstrate how any employee who receives $70 a week can budget for food, clothing, rent, education, fares, entertainment and everything else that goes with maintaining a wife and family. If the Government cannot demonstrate how it can be done then it has no moral right to be sending senior counsel into the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to oppose the claim by the Australian Council of Trade Unions for a national minimum wage of $70 a week. If the Government cannot show how people can live on $70 a week it has no right to be using taxpayers' money and the money of the 64 per cent of the work force who receive less than the average weekly earnings to oppose something which these people urgently need. The fancy figures which were put forward by the Minister for Labour and National Service will deceive nobody; they will not put food into the mouths of the people who are going without. Fancy figures will not make it easier to live. It is futile for the Government to call upon wage and salary earners to exercise restraint while inflation is sending prices up at the rate of $2 a week each quarter. That is the reason why there is a demand for increased wages. People just cannot live and meet their everyday needs on $70 a week. 
Now I want to take action to ensure that every member of the Parliament is made to stand up and be counted on this question of the Government's decision to sit idly by and allow Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to increase its prices. BHP has increased the price of mild plate steel 16 times in 21 years and the Government has done absolutely nothing about it. But at the same time it has called for wage restraint by people who are trying to live on $70 a week. It is a disgrace, and every member of this Parliament should now be made to stand up and be counted, to declare where he stands on the issue of BHP price increases, because price increases more than wage increases are the cause of the inflationary trend. Therefore, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent my moving a motion That this House believes that the Government should have acted to restrain BHP's latest increase in steel prices'. 
When the Prime Minister wrote to  Sir Ian  McLennan about the question of these latest price increases by BHP the Treasurer approved of the letter that was sent. The Leader of the Australian Country Party was not consulted. Later he repudiated what the Prime Minister said; so did the Treasurer subsequently repudiate it. The Prime Minister now says that he refuses to comment on whether he still deplores the recent price increases by BHP. The Australian Labor Party deplores the increases even if the Prime Minister is not game to say now that he deplores them. The Prime Minister did not tell the Premiers about these price increases by BHP before they were announced publicly, and he should have done so. The Treasurer did not oppose the increases. He said that it was a matter for BHP's commercial judgment. If companies like BHP are to be allowed to make some commercial judgment which in company jargon means 'How much more increase in profits can we get from the hapless public who have to pay the prices that we arbitrarily fix?', what sort of a Government is this? For the Government to say: 'We can do nothing about it', or for it to pretend that the Opposition is acting wrongly in saying that we ought to resort to the use of the tariff policies shows, in another way, how demonstrably unreliable the Government is and how it continues to talk with a double voice. The prices and policies of companies which benefit from Commonwealth tariffs, subsidies and contracts ought to be placed under the scrutiny of the government of the day. Companies which benefit considerably by increased tariffs and sometimes very high tariffs have no right to increase the price of the goods they sell without having to justify the price to the Tariff Board. A government which continues to give higher and higher tariffs to a company that extracts higher and higher profits from the community is a government that is not fit to govern any longer. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh said that he was going to move a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. Has he moved that motion? 
The Government pretends that it has no power. The Treasurer said that the Government had no power to exercise restraint upon BHP. He ridiculed the idea that we ought to use the tariff structure in order to exercise restraint upon BHP. But then he seemed to forget that he made a speech entitled 'The Place of Economic Theory in the Arbitration System (Talk by the  Hon.  B. M. Snedden, Q.C., M.P. Minister for Labour and National Service, to CEDA, October 8 1970)'. This is what he said in that speech:  1 have also argued that there are means available (the Trade Practices Act, the Tariff Board, moral suasion, etc.) to sharpen competitive pressures in our economy. 
It is no wonder that the Minister for Labour and National Service is smiling. Until these facts began to see the light of day the Treasurer seemed to be the logical Leader of the Opposition after the next election. But now the Minister for Labour and National Service believes that he has a chance to become Leader of the Opposition, and in many years to come, when he is old, grey and stooped, if he is still a member of this Parliament he may be fortunate enough to sit on the Government side of the House again. But what is the use of the present Treasurer saying that he can use these means to sharpen competitive pressures? He has admitted publicly that he did absolutely nothing at all to use moral suasion. He did absolutely nothing at all to use the Trade Practices Act against BHP and he criticised the Opposition for suggesting that his own proposition of use of the Tariff Board should be adopted or could be adopted. I want you to bear with me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  while I refer to the fact that  Mr J.  C. McNeill, the Managing Director of BHP- 
Order! The honourable member has moved that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion. I have extended a fair amount of leniency to the honourable member and he is getting fairly wide of the mark, as far as moving a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders is concerned. I ask him to confine his remarks to the subject matter of the motion. 
I am seeking to show - and a vote on my motion to suspend Standing Orders is the only way to do it - that the Government acted wrongly when it sat idly by and allowed BHP to increase the price of steel by 5.3 per cent at a time when the Government was proposing to reintroduce the investment allowance, the value of which would have been enough to reduce by at least 1 per cent, or one-fifth, the increase of 5.3 per cent, even if that increase of 5.3 per cent could have been justified. But it could not have been justified once the company knew of the lifting of the suspension of the investment allowance. 
I think the honourable member is now debating the subject for the purpose of debating which he has moved the suspension of Standing Orders. I ask the honourable member to keep to the subject of the suspension of Standing Orders. He is going too wide of the mark. 
That the honourable member tor Hindmarsh be not further heard. 
I have just listened to quite a long talk by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  on this Bill. I strongly support the Bill, the purpose of which is to increase the rate of unemployment and sickness benefits. I want to make some comments on the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes. He mentioned the repatriation of profits and he gave figures concerning them. I have heard many figures about the amount of money which leaves Australia, particularly as a result of mining ventures. In the first instance overseas capital has been used to establish our mining ventures, because, in some cases at any rate, capital was not available in Australia. The expertise that overseas companies brought with them has helped to develop Australia's great mineral deposits. Of course, we all know that it would have been better if all these projects could have been developed with Australian capital. Referring to the amount of money leaving 
Australia, I quote from the DecemberJanuary bulletin of the Institute of Public Affairs. The question was asked. 
What proportion of the total export proceeds from mining goes in dividends to overseas shareholders? 
The answer was: 
About  5  per cent.  This figure is far lower than figures which are often quoted as being the amount of money that goes to overseas shareholders as dividends from mining ventures. 
The honourable member for Sturt is interjecting. If he is right, the Institute of Public Affairs is wrong. I would rather accept the figure of the Institute of Public Affairs than that of the honourable member for Sturt, who is not quoting his source but is just naming a figure. I have quoted the figure from this booklet and if it is wrong, let honourable members opposite take it up with the Institute. I do not believe that it is wrong. Many quotations and figures are not substantiated. Often they are used simply for political propaganda. 
The honourable member for Hughes said that the real cure for unemployment is employment. I could not agree more. The Government has endeavoured to create an atmosphere in which employment will be generated. We heard something about a stop-go policy. If the Government's preparedness to try to do something when there is unemployment is called a 'go' policy, it is a good thing that Australia has a government that is prepared to have a go policy when one is needed to reduce the unemployment level. It is all very well to say that there is a stop-go policy. What does that mean? It means that when there is a necessity for an injection of money into the economy, it is given in the interests of the nation and in the interests of the people who need help at the time. In this case the Bill provides for relief of unemployment. Surely no-one would argue about the necessity to do this at this time. 
The Opposition may feel that there is no need to have a policy which will create employment or assist in the present situation. Members opposite can call the Government's policy a go policy or anything else but the policy which is being adopted and which is incorporated in this Bill is designed to help those who are suffering from the effects of unemployment. We must try to create employment so thai people will not have to take advantage of the benefits which are prescribed in this Bill. There is no question in my mind - 1 do not question that perhaps this feeling is not in the minds of many others - thai one of the great human tragedies occurs when people who are willing to work in their chosen occupations are unable ;o find employment, in its train this situation brings to individuals serious consequences which would not have occurred had it not been for the fact that they had not been able to find employment or that employment was not available to them. This does lead to a great deal of tragedy and consequently it is necessary that the Government should in every possible way try to provide the employment which will lessen the requirements of a Bill such as the one we are debating. 
The aim of the Bill is to sustain in the best possible way in relation to the economy those people who face the tragedy of unemployment. I do not suggest for a moment that what is prescribed in the Bill is sufficient. We would all like to see greater benefits given but one must take into consideration the whole economy. The Bill provides for a good step up in benefits. The adult rate will rise by $7 a week from $10 to $17 a week. This is a substantial rise and one which I feel will be of great benefit. It will be appreciated by those unfortunate enough to have to take advantage of it. In the case of unmarried persons aged 18 years to 20 years, the benefits will rise by $5 a week from $6 to $11 a week. It is not as much as we would like them to have nor is it as much as would be needed for them to live at a standard at which we like to sec all Australians living. Nevertheless, it is an improvement which will enable them to enjoy a better standard than previously and therefore it is something for which the Government is to be commended. Finally, the rate for unmarried persons aged 16 years to 17 years will rise by $3 a week. Again, I repeat, because it is worth repeating, that I am not suggesting that this is the ultimate in what is required but it is a big improvement and therefore I welcome it. lt would not have mattered how much the rates were increased; members of the Opposition still would have said it was not enough. It was said that the Government has opposed some Opposition proposals, but it is traditional for the Opposition to suggest raising unemployment benefits while it is the Opposition because the Opposition does not have to pay those benefits. 
Tonight I heard an Opposition member say that he scarcely remembered the Chifley Government. I feel sorry for members of the Opposition because they will not see another Labor government while the policies of this Government remain as good as they are. I commend the Minister for Social Services- 
I just told the honourable member what a member of his own party said. Surely I can refer to something that was said from the other side of the House in this debate. This is what the spokesman for the Opposition in this debate said, so surely I can make some reference to it. If it is good enough for him, it is good enough for mc. In fact, I should like to do better than he does. I think he said that he barely remembered the Chifley Government. One should look at the Minister's .second reading speech to see the value, at present rates, of the benefits provided by the Chifley Government, lt is easy to say that the Chifley Government was a long lime in the past but we have not seen much to indicate that a Labor government of the future would do any better. We must wait to see though, as I mentioned, many honourable members sitting on the other side of the House will not see another Labor government provided this Government continues with its present policies. 
The problems that have caused unemployment have been mentioned by other speakers in this debate. I now refer particularly to the serious problems of rural industry with which 1 am very conversant. Surely those problems must be recognised, and if honourable members opposite do not know anything about them it is time that they learned something about them. During this debate honourable members opposite have not commented on these problems at all, so they either do not know anything about them or they have not the fairness to say that these problems are a factor in the present unemployment situation. I want to assure the House that they are a factor. I have seen them in the travelling I have done throughout my own electorate and in other electorates. 
As the honourable member for Calare has said, this is the beginning. The fact, is that a government has no control over seasonal conditions, and in the last 10 years seasonal conditions in my State of Queensland; anyway, have been such that they have restricted the development which normally takes place in those areas. There have been great losses of stock. Consequently, people, such as shearers and even businessmen who have been the victims of a falling off in business, have had to leave the towns in which they have lived for many years. That is something over which the Government has no control, but what reference was made to it by honourable members opposite? None at all. 
It is suggested that we have caused the present situation; we have not. The present situation has been caused by low world prices of commodities. Drought conditions also have caused a lot of the problems in rural areas. Honourable members opposite are trying to interject. Some of the interjections are not worth listening to, and I will ignore them. The point is that if honourable members opposite were to take the trouble to travel around - and I think that very few of them have done so - they would see that in a very short time- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! There are too many interjections. Under the Standing Orders the honourable member for Maranoa is entitled to be heard without interruption. I believe that the previous  speaker  on the Opposition side was beard without interruption. The same courtesy should be extended to the honourable member for Maranoa. 
The interjections are puerile, anyway. If they had some merit in them J perhaps would welcome them. When one looks around the rural areas at the present time one sees already that there is returning confidence. There is an increase in employment in those areas. Country newspapers contain advertisements calling for applicants for positions, and if ever any evidence was needed, this is clear evidence of the effect of the influence which the Government's policy has had on unemployment in the rural areas of Australia, particularly in my own State which, naturally, I know better than most other parts of Australia. 
I am not one who wants to see a low wage rate, but unless wage rises are kept within the scope of the increase in the gross national product any wage rises will not be beneficial to the working man. Wage rises above the rate of increase in gross national product are absorbed very quickly by increased costs, and that in turn results in a greater degree of inflation. So such wage rises do not benefit the working people, those on wages, and they certainly do not benefit the Australian economy upon which, in the final analysis, the welfare and prosperity of every Australian must depend. I believe that provided common sense approaches are made in 2 major areas of our national economy - provided that wages are kept within the rate of increase in the gross national product, and provided that the profits of those people conducting businesses and manufacturing enterprises throughout Australia are kept within reasonable limits, and I do not mind saying that - we can keep unemployment down at least to a tolerable level, if there is such a thing, or to the level at which we have been able to hold it in Australia over many years. 
I want to refer to the great effort that has been made by Australia, particularly until very recent times, to maintain our level of employment. The Minister in his second reading speech stated that the 2.3 per cent of the work force who are unemployed in Australia could be compared with the latest figures of 5.4 per cent in the United States of America and 4 per cent in the United Kingdom. The unemployment problem is not facing only these countries; it is worldwide. Unemployment would have become a serious problem in any event, but it has been aggravated considerably by the disturbance in international currency which caused a great deal of uncertainty throughout the world and no doubt contributed - and I must be fair in this regard - to the unemployment figures in the United States and the United Kingdom. But if unemployment and inflation are to be used as a yardstick, the efforts made in Australia to overcome the problems caused by these 2 factors compare very favourably with the efforts made by other major countries. 
If no cognisance is taken of the problems that are confronting this country, if the trade union movement is prepared to continue to demand wage rises which are beyond the increase in gross national production, if in support of those demands the trade union movement is prepared to continue to advocate and assist in conducting long strikes which affect the national economy, and if the people on the other side - and I want to balance this - are not prepared to keep their profits within reasonable limits and pass benefits on to the consumers thereby keeping the prices of goods at a level which allows for a reasonable margin of profit, we will not be able to overcome the problems which unemployment and inflation create. But if these circumstances do not arise, then we will be able to get this country into a much better position than it appears to be in at the present time. The measures which are being taken in this legislation will help to overcome the problems presently facing Australia. The Government is doing all that it can, but it cannot do everything. It has to have the co-operation of those sections of the community which are so vitally affected and whose actions have such a bearing on the unemployment and inflationary problems facing Australia. 
So it boils down to the fact that there must be an effort by the Australian community as a whole. If all sections are prepared to make an effort, we will see results. I am sure that the Government is very conscious of the difficulties which face Australia. It is striving very hard to create a set of conditions which will control the unemployment problems in Australia, but at the same time the Government has to watch the inflationary trend because the 2 things are fairly closely allied. As has been demonstrated in the past, there is a fairly delicate balance between these 2 things, but the balance can be maintained with the goodwill and co-operation of all concerned. We have to maintain a delicate balance between full employment and conditions which will enable a reasonable margin of profit to be obtained. If the resources available in Australia are exploited reasonably and well - and it does not matter whether some of this is done with overseas capital - we can maintain a steady growth of development, prosperity and our standard of living. 
I only hope that this responsibility will remain with this Government and that the control of this country will not pass to the Opposition which appears to take no notice of the conditions which are existing, which has a horror of profits, and whose idea of trying to stabilise the economy is to introduce a 35-hour working week. I cannot imagine anything which would contribute more to the inflationary trends in Australia and which would be more detrimental to the Australian work force at the present time than the introduction of a 35-hour working week, but that is the answer to the problem which the Opposition advances. I support the Bill before the House and I trust that arising from the Government's policy we will see the Australian work force not having to take advantage of the increased benefits which were announced tonight by the Minister for Social Services. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise what amount of the rural reconstruction fund has been approved to date by the Rural Reconstruction Board in Queensland? Is there any likelihood that applications approved by the Rural Reconstruction Board in Queensland may have to wait until next financial year for the amount approved by the Rural Reconstruction Board to be paid? As time is vitally important for applicants for rural reconstruction, is any purpose served by not allowing the full amount - namely, $16m in the case of Queensland - to be allocated as claims are processed by the Rural Reconstruction Board in that State? 
In the short time available to me I wish to touch on a subject of very great importance to Australia and to Australia's rural areas, particularly to my State of Queensland. I refer to rural reconstruction. I commend the Commonwealth Government for providing the funds h has provided for this purpose. I and many others never felt that the amount of money that was made available was sufficient to cope with the task which confronted governments in reorganising so man;, of our primary producers. If we are to deal with decentralisation and correct the imbalance of our population the basic principle must be to maintain as many people as possible in the areas where they are now. In the overall situation, this is the first and most important point of rural reconstruction. 
Of course, a human element is involved also. In some cases, people WhO have lived in the country for 3 generation, who have proved their worth and who have been prepared to put up with conditiors and privations which are attached to living in many rural areas now face a very difficult financial situation through no fault of their own. Rural reconstruction is designed to help these people. In Queensland the Rural Reconstruction Board has dealt with a large number of applications and it has distributed a large amount of money. This morning at question time I asked whether there will be any delay in making available the funds provided to the Rural Reconstruction Board in that State. The point I make is this: While $16m has been allocated to Queensland out of a total allocation of $100m - I think it should have been more, but that is beside the point - it seems to me to make little sense that there should be a hold up for whatever length of time might be the case pending the beginning of a new financial year. I am conscious of the budgetary problems of a government. I am conscious of the fact that these difficulties arise. But 1 point out that if an emergency arose - if some development took place which required immediate financing - some means would be found to provide the money. 
I suggest that as this money has been allocated it should be used while the Board is operating. The Queensland Government has demonstrated its appreciation of this great problem by providing approximately $10m out of its own funds for the wool growing areas which it regards as the greatest disaster area - this could be debated - in its State. This indicates the urgency and the need for this support. As I see it, the essential feature is that if we are to reorganise these people, this cannot be done in the future. If we are to reconstruct, it has to be done now. In many cases, it has to be done now because the people concerned cannot afford to wait. One of the criticisms that I have heard of this scheme has been in regard to the length of time it has taken to process claims and have the money allocated to the people concerned. 1 believe that the Rural Reconstruction Board in Queensland is to be commended for the efficient way in which it has handled this problem, lt had to start from scratch. There was nothing there at all. lt is a completely new organisation. Staff had to be built up and the whole scheme developed. They had no experience in this field. Although there were delays earlier, the Board is now working efficiently and well. But I arn concerned that it might be in a position where it can approve applications for which finance will not be available. When the meeting of State Ministers and Commonwealth Ministers takes place early next month 1 urge the Commonwealth to consider allowing the Rural Reconstruction Board in Queensland to use so much of that SI 6m as may be necessary to finance the approvals which will be made during this financial year. If more money is required, and there may be, surely no government will cut off the supply of funds when a fairly high percentage of people have received this benefit and when people in the same position and who are as deserving of help will be cut off from help because of lack of funds. These loans are used to maximum effect. 
I want to repeal, with great emphasis, that this money is not being given away. Far too many people think that because ]00m has been allocated for rural reconstruction in the Commonwealth, that the taxpayer has provided that money and that that is the end of the matter. That is not the case. This money is only being lent. Indeed, those people receive these funds only if they can show they will become viable in a reasonable time after reconstruction of their debts and application of the funds that are made available under the rural reconstruction scheme. I urge the Government to give consideration to this matter. For goodness sake, do not let us hold up the work of rural reconstruction in Queensland because of some factor involved in going over to the next financial year before starting to make funds available again. It is not beyond the capacity of this Government to solve the problem, and I urge it to do so. 
In the few minutes remaining to me, I want to touch on another matter of great importance to the outlying areas of the Commonwealth. I refer to the Isolated Children Parents Association. I believe that firstly it was formed in New South Wales and later in Queensland. Many branches have been formed in my electorate of Maranoa. We now have State bodies in New South Wales and Queensland and also a federal body. I would have liked to enlarge a good deal on this subject. I believe that if there is one section of the Australian community that is underprivileged, it is the section comprising the isolated children in this nation. Something will have to be done if they are to be given the opportunity in life which they are entitled to receive. I am pleased to note that the New South Wales Minister for Education had this to say in the New South Wales Parliament in answer to a question. I apologise for being able to read it only inter alia. He said: 
I have been most anxious to cater for people whose circumstances have changed dramatically in the past couple of years. Now, according to my latest assessments, there may be 2.000 children who, according to any definition that has so far been applied to isolated children, would have to bc included in any scheme. 
So a great need exists. Surely, we will not allow this number of children to be deprived. This is the figure in New South Wales only. I happened to have the answer to the question and that is why I quoted it. The need is just as great in Queensland. There is to be a meeting on l 1th March of the State body of the Association at Blackall in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I mention the subject to draw attention to it. I realise full well that this is primarily a matter for the State governments. But I believe that they will not have the funds available. Indeed, the Minister for Education in New South Wales made that point. I think he is meeting here with the Federal Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 13th March. 
I again urge the Government to take action became these people are serving a very useful national purpose by populating those areas of the Commonwealth in which not so many people care to live. They are producing quite a high percentage of the export income upon which the prosperity of the nation in the final analysis must depend. They comprise a very deserving section of the community. I trust that this meeting is held with the Ministers of Education from the various States. I had intended to quote the objectives of the Association. I have them here. What it is trying to do is very worthy. These parents have made a sacrifice to travel hundreds of miles to try to form these organisations. They are making that sacrifice so that their children will have the opportunity that every Australian child should have, that is, a reasonable education. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Education and Science had a number of representations made to him concerning the problems of isolated children? Is he aware of the great difficulties faced by many families out of reach of any local school, where mothers must not look after the home, but often help work properties end in addition attempt to educate their children? Is he aware that a number of children are being prejudiced by the downtown in the economic fortunes of remote areas which has made it impossible for these children to be sent to boarding schools? Is he also aware that changes in technical requirements for those families which are on the School of the Air are likely to involve up to $800 for the purchase of new wireless sets for homes in order to remain on the School of the Air? Can the Commonwealth do anything to assist? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND  RELATED ISSUES 
A growing feature of our society is the introduction of automation and technological change and its merger of businesses. Employees must be granted a fair share in the economic and social benefits resulting from this. Real wages and salary, incomes must be raised to provide the appropriate demand for the increasing supply of goods and services resulting from automated processes. 
Moreover, there may result unnecessary hardship to employees and a grave loss of skills to the community. 
It is the responsibility of society to ensure that there is adequate notice of changes, that there is, where possible, absorption of employees affected so that losses to them may be minimised and that there is proper and adequate planning for and retraining of employees who become redundant. 
The effect on employees will vary, but those with specialised skills and those of mature age who are made redundant are likely to be most affected. 
The following principles will be adopted: 
Adequate notice of changes likely to cause redundancy, and notice of retrenchment must be given, and there must be joint consultation between the parties affected. 
Employees rendered redundant will be entitled to payment of pro rata long service leave and all accumulated superannuation or pension fund benefits arising from employer and employee contributions, except where alternate employment is provided in which case such benefits should be portable. 
Severance pay will be given to workers dismissed because of these changes - the amount of the pay will be based on a number of weeks pay in respect to each year of service. 
Employees who because of age and length of service are not able to be retrained to be retained in employment until normal retiring age unless satisfactory arrangements are made for payment of superannuation benefits as if normal retirement age had been reached and if necessary supplementary, assistance including travelling expenses to be provided by the employer and/or Government for the period until normal retiring age is reached. 
Assistance to be given by the employer and a Government body to employees to obtain alternative employment. 
Compensation for travelling expenses and/or loss of equity in their homes suffered by dismissed employees who have to transfer to other localities. 
Schemes of training and retraining (including adult apprenticeship) within the industry or otherwise outside the industry with the assistance of the employers by agreement with all the unions concerned to equip employees whose skills or age would prevent them from obtaining other suitable employment, to occupy other positions within the industry or, in the cases of redundancy, to obtain employment outside the industry. There should be no limitation on appropriate training and retraining. 
Make-up pay by the last employer where retrenched employees in career industries with an appropriate length of service or with long service fail to secure new positions at the rate of pay that they would have enjoyed if retained in their first employment. 
Appropriate extension of the Technological Change Section of the Department of Labor to enable it to undertake research and studies into these and other matters of concern to the unions and workers likely, to be affected by technological change. ti) Superannuation deeds to give retrenched employees full entitlement to the amounts standing to their credit (with appropriate interest thereon). 
1 too support the motion. There is no doubt that my colleagues on the Public Works Committee have covered a great deal of 'he ground that needed to be covered. I appreciate the provision of this very modern amenity in the Northern Territory at Katherine. As has been  demonstrated,  it is very sorely needed even at the present time, and with the growth of population the need would have become even greater and more important. The matter of health is concerning 'his Government very greatly. I agree wilh the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  that the Commonwealth has given a great deal of assistance to many parts of the Northern Territory. As members of the Public Works Committee know, we have examined and reported on many of the problems in the Northern Territory. One feature of the Committee's inquiry in the Northern Territory was that most local people seemed to think that they were the only persons with problems of this type. However during the course of taking evidence they were advised tha' similar problems confront people in other areas of Australia and that those areas also must receive attention. The people of the Northern Territory can feel that they are being shown every reasonable consideration by the Government in its approach to their problems. The Public Works Committee gives consideration in every reference to it concerning the Northern Territory to promoting the growth and development of that area. We all want to see the Northern Territory develop and grow. 
It gives me much pleasure to support the motion. My colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has always been most anxious to promote the progress and development of the Northern Territory and I noted today the pleasure with which he greeted this motion. The Government is doing as much as it can to promote the Northern Territory not only in the interests of Territorians but also in the interests of the nation. Far too often in this Parliament honourable members seem concerned only with the number of people who will benefit from a proposal and the great advantages of decentralisation are often forgotten. In the broad sense the development of the Northern Territory has resulted in transforming what was once regarded as the dead heart of Australia into something of which all Australians can be justly proud. I hope that the Government will continue to promote the growth and development of that region even though that area may seem to be benefiting more than some other parts of Australia where the need is equally great. I support the motion and wish the people of the Northern Territory continued progress and development. 
The purpose of the Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligations under a guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of wheat from the 1970-71 pool. Of course, it is necessary that this provision be made. Over recent years this commitment has had to be met within 12 months of the drawings being made or prior to 31st March of the following year. So the position is that we have been finding this money to enable the industry to carry on. Before I deal specifically with the Bill I should like to make a few points about the comments made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who spoke earlier on this Bill. One of the things that interested me was his comment about the wheat quota being lifted. The cold hard facts are that this is the quota which was recommended by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. I I believe that the Federation has acted very responsibly in its approach to wheat quotas. 
When the stocks of wheat held by the Australian Wheat Board were such as to cause concern the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, with commendable courage, recommended the introduction of a quota system. This system is regulated by the States. 1 believe that the decision to lift the quota to 407 million bushels this year demonstrates a responsible appreciation of the fact that we still have to keep the amount of wheat which is being grown within the limits which it is reasonable to expect we will be able to handle. It is of no advantage to the wheat growers of quotas are lifted to such an extent that there is a large carry over of stocks to handle, because the cost of carrying more wheat than is required to obtain a reasonable reserve is heavy and that cost must be borne by the wheat grower himself. So in advocating an increased quota one has to consider what is in the best interests of the growers, and I am sure that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation had this very much in mind when it made its recommendation to increase the wheat quota. I have the very highest regard for the Federation's judgment in this matter. With all due deference to the honourable member for Dawson, I would say that the Federation has the capacity, the facilities and the experience necessary to deal with this matterin the best interests of the Australian wheat grower. 
In my own State the Queensland Grain Growers Association has a quota committee. People can put their case before this committee, and I believe that the system has worked reasonably satisfactorily. Perhaps in dealing with this matter I should draw attention to the attitude of the Opposition 2 years ago when conditions in the wheat industry were difficult. On page 207 of Hansard of 10th March 1970 the honourable member for Dawson is reported to have said: 
The Government has now been warned about what can happen by being a guarantor for large proportions of wheat that cannot be sold at this point of time. This is an important point. 1 made it very clear why the Opposition supports the guarantee under the provisions of the Wheat Stabilisation Act. This Parliament has no alternative but to support it because the Reserve Bank has to make this loan within the province of section 57. That does not mean that this commits the Government and the people of Australia to guaranteeing loans all the time, depending on government or industry decisions. This is the crux of the problem. In the cold business world, would the Reserve Bank give a blank cheque for advances up to $634m, then when $250m of this was still outstanding give another (440m and, without knowing what could happen, another $407m at the end of the vear? That is the very dangerous situation :n which we could find ourselves. Very large .amounts of money are involved. 
 That was said by the honourable member for Dawson in 1970, when sneaking on behalf of the Opposition. The wheat industry needed the courage and determination of the Government to see it through that particular period of difficulty. In the light of that experience I would say that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation now has looked at these difficulties, and I hope that the honourable member for Dawson will agree that it was very good policy on the part of the Government to carry the wheat industry through that particular period of difficulty even if it involved guaranteeing the amount of money mentioned. It certainly saved the Australian wheat industry. 1 have been a member of this House for a number of years and 1 have, found that it is very difficult to forecast what will happen in world markets. We can only do our best, and I am sure that if this matter of wheat quotas is left in the capable hands of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation we will have the best chance of getting the best results for the Australian wheat grower, about whom I am mostly concerned. 
Turning to the question of our having to guarantee this amount of money, one of the reasons why the Australian Wheat Board is not able to meet the payments in the required time is that credit sales of wheat have become a very important part of the Australian Wheat Board's operations, particularly over recent years. For some years there have been debit balances at the end of March each year, and while there has been some increase in the balances, according to the latest figures available to me. the balances have been kept within reasonable limits. I know that, with the extension of credit, the stocks of wheat have been reduced quite considerably. This point was made earlier in the debate. I think it is worthy of note that the Australian Wheat Board has looked for new markets in this field and has successfully fo ind them, despite the lack of sales to Mainland China - if that is the latest term that should be used. The People's Republic of China might be the popular name today. 
 'Mainland China' I used previously, and it is not a bad name. It is a fairly descriptive name. If the honourable member is not happy with it, I cannot be worried. I am just talking about the country. I do not want to become involved in any controversy about which name should be used. If the honourable member has any affectionate name for it he is at liberty to use it, as far as I am concerned. It is necessary to maintain adequate stocks of wheat in this country, and those stocks are available now. The stocks have to be kept. Appendix 14 of the Austraiian Wheat Board's annual report for the 1969-70 season gives the provisional figures for 1969-70. Taking the figures for the 5 major wheat exporting countries, the stocks for domestic use were then 2,381.8 million bushels of wheat and the closing stocks were 2.381.8 million bushels. They just balanced. The closing stocks were equivalent to what would be required. 
The position is fairly sound, but I still feci that we need to look at this industry in a way which will enable us to predict as accurately as we can the position in the years ahead. That is a very difficult situation. I believe that the action taken by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and by the Government on the advice of that body is the correct action and I go along with it completely. I do not think we need to be unduly worried if there is some debit owing under the present conditions of sales of wheat on our world markets. We have to match the offers that are made by countries that are competing with us for the various world markets. This has meant that we have had to go into credit sales and it may be that in the future we will have to require a guarantee such as that we are debating now. I want to draw attention to the fact that, despite the credit sales that have been made, these commitments have been honoured. If we are in a position in which we have to make sales because of competition under these conditions, then it is far better to make them than not to compete. We have to face up to this as an ordinary business proposition. 1 do not want to detain the House for an unduly long time on this matter but I want to draw attention to the matter of the first advance for wheat. There has been some controversy about this. The first advance for wheat does make a difference in the amount of money that has to be met because the greater the amount that is paid out, naturally, the greater will be the amount that will be owing at the end of March. I support at least $1.10 a bushel as the first advance. 
The honourable member says that he hopes so. I want to say to you.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and to the House that arguments have been put forward that this should be reduced in the interests of trying to cut production. 
J do not know off hand who said it and I am not going to quote those people who have said it. But 1 know that it has been said and it has been quoted that there should be some reduction. I am not blaming the honourable member for it, so we will let it rest at that. 1 believe that at least $1.10 should be paid. Costs are rising all the time, and it is necessary that we receive this amount. Perhaps some consideration will have to be given to increasing it. 
It. was. 1 want to stress the point that I do not want to see any reduction in it. If there is to be a movement in that first payment, I want to see that movement upwards. I believe that the introduction of quotas was an important factor in the stabilisation of the wheat industry. It was resisted to some extent. The handling of the whole situation from that dim dark period of a couple of years ago reflects credit on the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and on this Government for the policy it has adopted in making the position what it is today. When we look at the world situation we have to remember that we cannot guarantee markets. We can work only on an assumption that certain markets will be available to us. We must face up to the sometimes intense competition, lt is against that background that I reject the suggestion made by the honourable member for Dawson that there should be an increase in quotas. It might sound all right. lt might be good politics to say that. But we have to look at what are the best interests of the Australian wheat growers in the light of the circumstances which are prevailing and in the light of the prospects for sales. 
In the matter of guaranteed prices I heard it said that a means test should be put on the wool deficiency payment. This was suggested by the Opposition. I wonder why this should not apply to every industry, if it is good enough to be applied to the wool industry. I have not heard any suggestion that it should be applied to the sugar industry or that it should be applied to the wheat industry. I believe it is desirable that there should be no means test applied to the support of primary industries. The mistake that has been made in the past has been in trying to draw some line of demarkation between the people who need it or deserve it and those who do not. I want to impress upon the Opposition that, in trying to do this, the producer who is an efficient, effective producer is often penalised. Someone may produce figures which show that he might need some support and these may be compared with figures for another person who may not be in quite the same position. We need to prevent the Opposition's suggestion of a means test for the wool deficiency payment from spreading any further than that. I hope that it will not even be adopted in the wool industry. 1 do not know why that industry should be singled out. 
As far as the wheat industry is concerned, I want to be sure that when we do give the guaranteed price we give it across the board and that we stabilise the industry on that basis. That is the soundest basis on which it can be done. I conclude by supporting the Bill and by again commending the Government on the manner in which it has brought stabilisation into this industry. I couple with that the very sound recommendations that have consistently been made to the Government by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. 
I very strongly support the Government's policy of a dual education system. I want to emphasise that too often this policy is misrepresented by the Opposition as being a policy for independent schools alone. This is the type of interpretation that has been placed constantly on the policy whereas in fact it is very strongly behind the effective promotion of a dual education system. Despite what my predecessor in this debate, the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  has said, there is a great contribution being made and it will continue to be made to the State schools by this Government. I want to take up a couple of the points that he raised. First of all he called this debate a shabby political stunt because it was being broadcast. What has the Australian Labor Party to be afraid of in this debate being on the air? Does it not want it on the air? Does it not want the people to hear what it has to say about the tremendously important subject of education? I am sorry that the honourable member for Barton did not have a better audience while he made his speech. He did not have anyone here when he started his speech and not many came in after, not even the shadow Minister for Education. 
I now want to refer to one or two statements which were made by the honourable member for Barton when referring to what has been done in the field of education. He said that assistance was 21 times greater to private schools than to government schools. This may be; I have not checked his figures. But we should not look at this in isolation. We should look also at what the Commonwealth Government is doing for government schools. The Commonwealth Government is providing about half the funds in an area which was almost solely a Stale responsibility not so very long ago. Even back in 1965-66 the Commonwealth contributed in recurrent expenditure $358m while in 1971-72 it contributed $855m. This indicates that the Commonwealth is accepting an increasing share of the responsibility, as all agree it should Or perhaps we would like to see the States accepting more responsibility too in the same way. But the Commonwealth is conscious and desirous of providing a continually increasing benefit for our government schools. The honourable member for Barton said - I am quoting from memory - that he could not understand why his Catholic friends agreed to the same per capita grant being given to all schools. The National Council for Independent Schools, on which the Catholic schools are represented, recently issued a strongly worded statement explaining its view. It is supported by the Federal Catholic Schools Committee, the Australian Parents Council and the New South Wales Catholic Schools Committee. The majority of them as well as independent schools have selected this approach after a great deal of consideration of the likely effect of an alternative approach. Serious consideration has been given to this matter by those authorities. 
The amount of assistance that is given to secondary schools by the various States varies quite a bit and I am very happy to say that my own State of Queensland is at the top with $145 for each pupil, and is second only to New South Wales in the provision for primary students of $95 for each pupil. When one looks at the cost to the Government of providing education for primary and secondary school students - the cost is approximately $300 for primary school students and up to $600 for secondary school students - and at what the schools are saving by the Government running the schools, surely it is scarcely reasonable to say that the schools should not get some assistance. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  the other night in the debate said that the economics of the Labor Party's policy were atrocious - if I remember rightly that was the word he used - and so it is. The Opposition wants to take benefits away from these schools rather than encourage them. Far from it being only my opinion, the National Council of Independent Schools has also agreed that the Commonwealth's approach is the most satisfactory. The poorer schools would be in the majority and would have considered this angle. Nevertheless they feel that it is a fair and reasonable approach and the Government agrees with them. That is why it is that the Catholic schools have accepted this particular approach. They regard it as fair enough. 
These are the schools probably in most need and I concede that there are some in greater need than others. Maybe the Government will consider giving greater assistance to independent schools as time goes on to enable them to continue to provide the magnificent services they have given to education over the years and to continue to save the taxpayer in this country very considerable amounts of money. The Government has not neglected the government schools and even in this cognate debate of the 2 Bills this has been recognised. It was remarked on by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  We on this side of the House will constantly keep in mind the need for the promotion of the welfare and the progress and development of both government and independent schools. We stand very definitely for the dual system of education and if there is one section of education that is battling harder than another, despite what the honourable member for Barton said, it is that section comprising a number of independent schools, some of which have been forced to close and others threatened with closure. 
I did not say that the honourable member for Barton did deny it. and in reply to the honourable member for Hindmarsh and his comment that I have election jitters, I would like to refer to something he said now that he has come into the House, and I welcome him into it. My colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  and another honourable member, said that the Labor Party speaks on education with three tongues. I am glad that the honourable member for Hindmarsh is now in the chamber because I can remind him that on education the Labor Party has  3  policies.  Senator Murphy  is advocating that money be given first to government schools;  Mr Whitlam  is denying that; and  Mr Beazley  is making a substitute suggestion involving a dozen authorities. 
I would like to add a fourth policy, that of the honourable member for Hindmarsh. 
I saw him on a television programme advocating that no aid at all be given to independent schools. You know,  Sir, as  I know, that the honourable member for Hindmarsh has a tremendous capacity for persuasion. We could ask Tom Dougherty to see whether that is right. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for bis persuasive ability, but as he is sitting on the front bench of the Opposition one is entitled to wonder where the policy on education of the Labor Party will finish; whether there would be aid for independent schools if Labor got into office, having regard to the influence of which we know the honourable member for Hindmarsh is capable. I welcome the honourable member to this debate. I am glad that he came in to remind me of that situation. 
I will tell you about him later. I wish to return to the matter of independent schools. A survey has been made which foreshadows a big rise in school fees and T think it is necessary to have the appropriate figures set out if we are to get the position into perspective, ff anybody listening to me believes that I am concentrating only on the independent schools, I point out that I want continually to stress the fact that we want to keep both sections of our education system. I wish to talk about independent schools more than about State schools for one reason: I want to see them retained. I believe that the Government will ensure that the State school system is retained. A greater percentage of pupils are now attending State schools than ever before and unless we continue to give increasing aid to independent schools we will find that attendance at them, to the great disadvantage of our education system and of the taxpayers, will continue to decrease. 
There are many aspects of the financial crisis facing independent schools. The Director of Catholic Education in South Australia has very effectively drawn attention to the situation. He asked that extra money be made available. He adopted a very reasonable approach. He said that the immediate urgent need for 1972 is an extra $50 per capita at primary level for recurrent expenditure. That is not overstating the case. Honourable members will remember that the Catholic Archbishop of Hobart had to close schools there. I do not think such action would be taken for any other reason than that it was financially impossible to carry them on any longer. The Director of Catholic Education in South Australia also said that the immediate urgent need for 1972 is an extra $78 per capita at secondary level for recurrent expenditure. I ask the members of the Opposition: Do you or do you not want independent secondary schools to remain in operation? We do not mind if the Opposition argues for a greater allocation of funds for government schools. We are all concerned about that, but we must consider first things first. We want to maintain the dual system of education. 
I could quote examples of people who are not necessarily very partial to independent schools as such who have constantly claimed that the additional funds provided to the independent school system have been of great advantage to education generally in this country. Additional funds have been provided for education which would not have been available but for our dual system of education. There is a group of teachers in independent schools who might not be available for education purposes but for the existence of those independent schools in which they teach. 
That is their business, I presume. If there is a need to have a look at that situation, let us have a look at it in due course. If it has been going on since the honourable member has been in this Parliament he has been a bit slow in picking it up. The point is that additional funds are made available for education which would not be provided but for the independent schools system. 
That is so. I do not have a lot of time at my disposal but I do want to mention a matter which so far has not been raised in the course of this debate. I hope that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who had the great privilege of visiting my electorate recently to gain some education for himself, will comment on this aspect. I am referring to the Isolated Childrens' Parents Association. I know that the matter was raised with him in my electorate and I am glad that that opportunity was taken. I hope that he will comment on what the Opposition would do in that direction. I have here a copy of the objectives of the Association and I would be very happy to make it available to any interested honourable members. Objective No. 4 of the Association states that its Federal Council will press for finance for the establishment of government hostels and boarding schools in remote areas with adequate school facilities, where applicable. There is a need for continuing expenditure to provide accommodation for children in outlying areas. Independent schools provide much of that accommodation. 
I pay tribute to those authorities that provide hostels. I have in mind the Paroo Shire Council at Cunnamulla and also the Country Women's Association which conducts hostels in different areas. I might mention that the Paroo Shire Council loses money in providing school accommodation. I recommend to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that if he is looking for an underprivileged section of the community for which educational opportunities should be provided, he should consider isolated children. I have much pleasure in drawing attention to their needs. 
I would like to touch again on some of the attitudes taken by independent schools organisations. Recently I visited an independent school - not a Catholic school - which is experiencing difficulties because it does not have the number of students that it can accommodate. This situation has arisen because of the serious financial problems confronting rural areas. People there are not able to send their children in to be educated. That is why we need to relieve independent schools of their burden so that at least they can hold their fees at their present level. Many parents who belong to the Isolated Children's Parents Association are no longer able to send their children into these independent schools. The objects of the Australian Parents' Council are as follows: 
To safeguard the rights and promote the interests of parents and children in the field of education in Australia, and in particular the rights and interests of parents availing or wishing to avail themselves of the services of non-government schools for their children. 
The constituent bodies affiliated with the Council are the Parents and Friends 
Federation of Western Australia, approximately 120 schools affiliated; the Parents and Friends Federation of South Australia, approximately 120 schools affiliated; the Victorian Federation of Catholic Mothers' Clubs, 190 schools affiliated; the Parents and Friends Federation of Victoria, approximately 125 schools affiliated: the Federation of Parents and Friends of the Catholic Schools of Tasmania, 48 schools affiliated: and the Association for Educational Freedom which is well known from the Goulburn schools closure days, operating mainly in the country areas of New South Wales but now mainly a research body. The Council has liaison with the Parents and Friends Federation of Queensland, with which 190 schools are affiliated. The whole posit on has boiled down to whether we need to promote the progress and development of a dual system of education. The Government is completely convinced of the value and the necessity to do so. ! have grave doubts - and 1 believe that the  people  of Australia also have grave doubts - about the sincerity of purpose behind the protestations of members of the Opposition when they say that they want to give assistance to the independent schools. 1 suggest that they have been forced into this position because they realise that the Australian public is two to one in favour of assisting oar independent schools. 
Although the honourable member for Barton claims that the Government has put on this debate as a political exercise, 1 believe that the policy of the Australian Labor Party in regard to a dual system of education has become simply a political feature of it. Having looked at statements made by the Labor Party over many years, I would have grave doubts, if it were not for the fact that a vote was attached to it. whether a majority of honourable members opposite would support independent schools at all. But that is a personal opinion and honourable members opposite can refute it if they like. I believe this to be the case from statements that have been made, and I mention in particular statements made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  1 would be very pleased to hear the honourable member explain his stand. 
The position is that we have a dual system of education. The Government promoted this system and it needs promotion. Educa tion is one of the greatest needs of this country. 1 heard one honourable member, 1 think from the Opposition side, say that he did not have the benefit of education, lt Ls becoming more and more apparent that we require higher standards of education. There is no doubt at all that not only in education but in practically every other field the incentive of competition is a valuable and integral part of the progress and development of many other aspects of community life, lt is certainly of value in the field of education. 1 support both Bills that are before the House. One Bill deals with assistance for government schools and the other provides badly needed assistance to our independent schools so as to enable them to continue doing valuable work for the Australian community at great saving to the community as they have done over many years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Education and Science seen a statement in today's Press attributed to a Labor member of Parliament that Government grants to private schools are corrupt? Can the Minister advise what are the facts in relation to Government grants to private schools? 
Having listened to Opposition speakers on this issue, it strikes me forcibly that they must be very short of a medium to criticise the Government because they have chosen one of the most successful efforts ever made in any country to provide a satisfactory 2-airline service. It has been achieved in a country where this was not very easy because of the vast distances to overcome. So it is certainly a compliment to the Government that a debate on this subject should have been brought forward. It shows the paucity of subject matters on which the Opposition can tackle the Government. The Government is firmly committed to the 2-airline policy. Opposition speakers, and especially the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who led for the Opposition in this debate, did not argue with that. He agreed with it, at least in principle. He brought the matter back to a question of principle. It has worked well as a general policy. There is no question about that. We have received commendation not only in Australia but also throughout the world on the effectiveness and the record of our 2- airline policy. 
The argument put forward by the Opposition overlooks many important points, including the international standing of our aviation services, the safety record and the progressive outlook that has always been adopted. The Opposition would have been better and more fairly employed in paying a compliment to the airline services of this country. To my mind aviation and national development are complementary and this is the manner in which they have been treated. Obviously, air services which provide speed, reliability and safety are basic to the conduct of commercial affairs and often are a prime reason for a decision to decentralise an industry. Air services are a very important factor in Australian development and indeed they are a stimulator of land settlement. They remove, to some extent at any rate, the penalties of distance, at least so far as it relates to travelling time. As you would well know.  Mr 
Deputy Speaker, they are a logical vehicle for the tourist traffic which is  bow  reaching remarkable proportions in this country. 
As Australians, we can all be very justly proud indeed of the record of the airline services in this country. If, as I have said, commerce, decentralisation, settlement and tourism are bound up with development, surely we must acknowledge that the one thing common to all - indeed it is indispensable - is civil aviation. If one part of Australia is more dependent than another on this type of service it is those areas where there are vast distances to travel but a relatively sparse population. These factors necessarily throw into stark relief the hugeness of the challenge to civil aviation in Australia, a challenge that I firmly believe already has been accepted and met - in the light of considering financial limitations - and it is a challenge that will continue to exercise the best technical and administrative brains that the Department of Civil Aviation and the Federal Government can employ. But their record in the past, by comparison with international standards, is something, I repeat, of which we can feel very justly proud indeed. 
Australia has some 700 licensed aerodromes and over 6,000 authorised landing grounds. Our airborne nation is ranked third busiest in the world in domestic operations, tenth in international operations and sixth busiest in total passenger operations. What a magnificent record. It seems that the Opposition wants to try to take away the credit from the people who have brought this about. I cannot understand members of the Opposition even suggesting that there should be criticism of the Government's airline policy. All they have brought forward to support their case is the fact that a transport company has bought some shares in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. 
The honourable member for Adelaide may not have mentioned that but he misses a lot of things. That is the basis of the Opposition case. 
I am making this speech. The honourable member for Wide Bay can say something about it afterwards. I listened very carefully to what was said and I am quite accurate. The Opposition bases its case on the fact that Thomas Nationwide Transport bought some shares in Ansett Transport Industries and it therefore wants Trans-Australia Airlines to be given the same privilege and to be allowed to do the same thing. I think the honourable member for Wide Bay might have said that. This is what the Opposition case hinges on. Opposition members are making these comments before there has been time for the Government to evaluate what change there might be as a result of the purchase of shares by TNT. There will be time enough for the Government to do this. In fact, according to information I have received, it is not very definite that this transaction will go through. It is not clear cut yet. I repeat, despite interjections, that this is the only concrete argument that Opposition members have used for having this discussion and for criticising the Government. 
The Government at all times has endeavoured to be fair to both our major airlines. If some honourable members in this House like to think that one airline has been treated a little better than the other, that is a matter of opinion. The general balance of opinion is that both airlines have functioned very satisfactorily. I think some honourable member said that TAA had contributed Slim to the Commonwealth. Surely that does not indicate that the airline is having difficulty in maintaining its position in this country. Surely that indicates that it is getting a fair share of the business. If I remember rightly, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  claimed that there should be a fairer distribution of business between the 2 airlines. He went on to say that TAA should carry all the mail. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if the Opposition became the Government we would not have a 2-airline policy, although it pays lip service to that policy. There would be monopoly control of airlines in Australia. The Government has endeavoured to keep this 2-airline policy operating. 
I do not know what the honourable member for Wilmot said but it does not matter anyhow; normally his words are not worth listening to. There is no doubt that the Government has spent a tremendous amount of money on civil aviation. It has done a great deal in this field. It introduced a local ownership plan for aerodromes and spent a lot of money, as did local government authorities. The only worry I have about this local ownership plan is that many local authorities are finding such great difficulty in financing their operations that they have difficulty in taking full advantage of it. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  recognises this difficulty. Local government authorities will be able to take full advantage of the plan only when a more equitable system of financing local government is brought into operation. I think that that will happen in the not too distant future, but of course, that is another subject. 
In the very short time available to me I would like to make some comments on a statement that has just been .made available by the Minister for Civil Aviation. The Minister announced on 23rd March that the Commonwealth Government plans to provide extra aid for about 70 country airports throughout Australia. The cost of capital works to upgrade country airports to jet standard - about $10m over about 10 years - is clearly beyond the resources of country communities, particularly at the present time of depressed rural industries. The Government is anxious to provide these facilities everywhere. It is conscious of the need to try to do something further for country people. 
I am sorry that I do not have time to read all of this statement by the Minister for Civil Aviation but he went on to say that he believed that the change in policy would enable country towns to improve their aerodromes, particularly terminal facilities in the interest of local prestige and tourism. Tourism will grow and it will cause tremendous changes throughout Australia. We will find that the Government will give greater consideration to developing airports in order to enable this growth in tourism to take place and everybody in Australia will benefit from it. 
I do not have time to reply to all the things mentioned in this debate. I would like to point out  -  I thought the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  might have mentioned this - that TAA has applied for access to the Perth-Darwin route and the Government will consider this request. I appreciate the fact that the honourable member for Wilmot informed us that the Labor Governments in Western Australia and South Australia were not doing in civil aviation the things that he felt they should be doing. I venture to suggest that if there is a change in government the Australian Labor Party will not do anything about the major issues facing civil aviation in this country. Its performance will pale by comparison with the magnificent performance of the 2-airline service in Australia under the sound policy operated by this Government and the assistance it has given. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Cope)Order! This discussion is now concluded. 
Order! There is no point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
WAI the honourable member put his motion in writing? 
Order! I ask the Minister to withdraw the word 'lie'. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the uncertainty in many sections of the wool industry about the possible introduction of an acquisition scheme, could the Minister advise the 
House when the Randall Committee's report to the Government on the wool industry is likely to be presented? Can the Minister give an indication as to whether any legislative action necessary to implement alterations in the wool auction scheme or in the composition of statutory wool authorities will be introduced into the House in this session  so  that the changes can be operative at the beginning of the 1972-73 wool season? 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The House is debating the States Grants Bill 1972. Its purpose is to amend the States Grants Act (No. 2) of 1971 to authorise the payment to the States in 1971-72 of further special revenue assistance totalling some $15m. Tonight a great deal has been said about the position in which the States find themselves in relation to revenue and comparing the position of the States with that of the Commonwealth which is, of course, responsible for the collection of funds. 1 do not doubt that while ever there is this type of redistribution of funds there will always be some degree of discontent. It is natural to assume that this would be so because, after all. the States do need a lot of funds for their purposes and the Commonwealth has the responsibility of seeing that the taxation burden on the community is no greater than is required to keep the prosperity of this country at the level it desires to see. So there is a gap in between that can never be fully met. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  commented on this particular aspect and the fact that the Commonwealth Government does so well. He put up a case for the States. I am inclined to think that probably it was for home consumption to some extent. I wonder whether the honourable member for Stirling would advocate a return of taxing powers to the States. This is one of the tests by which we can judge whether the States are getting a reasonable return from the taxes that are collected from them. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for the problems that the States have to meet. My own State of Queensland has problems of distance and while we take some pride from the fact that it is probably the most decentralised State there are these problems of distance and problems of isolation although perhaps they are not as great as in Western 
Australia in some respects. However they are still great and there is need for tremendous developmental work to take place there. Not sufficient funds are available to provide for that development. On the other hand it must be remembered - I think the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  made the point - that the State of Tasmania receives from the Commonwealth, in round figures, a little more than li times the amount of money collected in that State. So there is a balance in these things and we have to recognise the fact that one cannot get exact agreement between the Commonwealth and the States on this matter. The fact is that the need for funds always will be greater than the funds that are available. 
I was interested in the comments of my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who usually is very gentlemanly in his approach to debates. However he did play a little bit of politics tonight. He noted that in a State election year the Liberal governments usually get considerable assistance by way of grants. I have forgotten his exact words but he intended to convey that this was a method adopted by the Commonwealth Government to assist its colleagues in the State sphere. I wondered at his expressing that view because he is usually fairly alert in these matters. I remind him that in one of the Bills we are discussing it is proposed that New South Wales should get no less than $ 17.5m by way of special assistance for its Budget and it is not an election year in New South Wales. It is easy to make such statements but they are not always borne out by facts. In this particular case 1 Would say that the honourable member's argument does not hold water and is not valid because the remainder of the moneys involved are to be distributed to the States on a prorata basis in the way such moneys are normally distributed. So I take the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to task on this. I believe that he was playing a little bit of politics when he made those comments. 
I disagree with him on this point but I agree with him strongly in his comments on the value of colour television coming into Australia at a time when the money that would be required to provide this amenity - if one likes to call it that - could be so much better spent and when black and white television is still required in many of the more sparsely settled areas of the Commonwealth. While progress has been made in the provision of television stations and while stations are being provided in outlying areas of my electorate they will serve only the towns and their immediate areas and a lot of deserving people still will not be getting black and white television. Yet we are considering the enormous cost of colour television in Australia. I am not opposed to progress of any kind and I would not be opposed even to colour television if, in fact, it had the degree of priority that I think it deserves and if the other requirements of government, both Federal and State, had been more effectively provided. 
I should like now to touch on a subject which has been mentioned in the course of this debate tonight. It is a subject in which I am very interested and about which I am concerned, namely, the position of local government. My colleague, the honourable member for Denison, said that he did not feel that this now should be a responsibility of the Commonwealth Government, but the cold hard facts are that it has to be the responsibility of someone to see that local government gets its just desserts in the provision of revenue. I make particular reference to the local authorities in areas that are well removed from the capital cities. Capital cities, and perhaps even provincial cities, at least have maintained the value of the properties from which their ratable revenue comes but in rural areas there are many properties now which have been reduced very considerably in value and which do not return a commensurate income. Sometimes in recent years there has been no income, yet these people are still called upon to provide what I feel is an undue share of the contribution to local government revenue. 
It is time that a very close examination was made of the revenue required for local government. I believe it is receiving consideration. The methods adopted now are out of date, particularly in rural areas. Local government is being called upon from time to time to accept even greater responsibilties than it did in days gone by. As an example perhaps I could cite the local ownership plan for aerodromes. This is a very good thing in many respects but it does place an additional cost on local authorities. There is a need to provide more amenities in the areas than normally accepted in the past. Local governments are getting subsidies from the States and the States may perhaps feel that they are contributing too by way of revenue through the Department of Main Roads or some comparable department, whatever it may be called. No doubt they have been relieved of some of their responsibilities but the need for and the cost of roads are increasing every year. 
One of the essential factors in the development of this nation is more and more good arterial roads not only for the carriage of our produce but also to enable our tourists both from within this country and from overseas to look at areas they would not be able to visit otherwise. If we had a better road system we would gain more through tourism which is now a rapidly growing industry in Queensland. By doing this we contribute in the most beneficial way to decentralisation. For example, although beef roads do not altogether come into this category, local government is relieved of the burden of providing them. Beef roads provide a very great saving because there is a lack of bruising of the stock coming in from the channel country in my area. It is surprising to look at the figures which have been given to me. Australia has a great opportunity to supply beef to the world today. It can be assisted in this task by the construction of more and better roads in these areas. There are few better ways in which the Commonwealth Government can contribute to the progress and development of outlying areas, and at the same time show a return on capital invested, than in the construction of roads. So I make a plea for greater consideration to be given to local government, whatever method might be adopted for doing it, and even if the Commonwealth has to become involved with local government to a greater extent than it has been I believe this involvement would be fully justified in the light of changed circumstances. 
The Government, of course, is called upon to do many things and we cannot really expect it to fill the gap. It will be called upon to provide more funds to assist the States in education. Although the Commonwealth has been accepting a greater responsibility in this field and the expenditure of the States has been increasing, the standard of education that has been provided has improved but not beyond what it ought to be because on an international comparison we still have to lift our standards. There will be continuing demands on the Commonwealth. One to which I would like now to refer is a very deserving cause. It is the Isolated Children's Parents Association in which there is not a very large number involved. Quite a few of these children are among the underprivileged  In  the Commonwealth, so I believe the Commonwealth either directly or through grants will have to provide the States with the funds. The States have their education authorities and, naturally, I believe they will have to do the administration work but it is only reasonable that the Commonwealth should contribute to this field. I hope that this is something that every honourable member in this House will be prepared to support. My time is getting on and I do not want to take up the last minute of it as so often seems to be the aim of some honourable members who feel it a duty to keep on talking even though they have made the points they wanted to make. In view of the continuing increase in funds that the Commonwealth has made available to the States, the States can hardly claim that the Commonwealth has not appreciated their needs or taken reasonable and generous action to meet them. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
Order! The honourable member is getting wide of the Bill, which relates to amendments to the Standing Orders. The Bill has nothing to do with an agreement between parties. 
Deputy Speaker, with all due respect to your limitations and restrictions on the debate merely because I referred to the fact that the electoral oportunities of a group of members under the guise of Assistant Ministers are being protected. It is an absolute disgrace. 
 I rise to make some comments on the remarks made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  in which he accused Government members of being disciplined into voting in a particular way when the vote was taken the other night and there was some crossing of the line, if you like to put it that way. I say emphatically that no such discipline applied to me. Indeed, as  Deputy Chairman  I drew attention to the fact that there was a free vote on the issue. I want to point out that the honourable member for Riverina has no right at all to assume that because members on this side of the House are voting in a particular way, they have been disciplined into doing so. In fact, when they did vote they were supporting the report of the Standing Orders Committee. The honourable member for Riverina has just admitted that he did not know before that the Standing Orders Committee worked out a report for this Parliament without proceeding along party lines. Indeed, when the vote was taken none other than the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  voted with members who are condemned by the honourable member for Riverina. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  another member of that Committee, voted the same way. I think that the other members of the Committee voted in that way also. What the Government members did was to support the report of this Standing Orders Committee. Indeed, I cannot understand how the honourable member for Riverina could take exception to the fact that members on this side of the House supported that report, which was thrashed out, I believe, very genuinely by that Committee. 
If they did it freely, and I think they did. I believe they worked out this report in that way. I am convinced of that by talking to some of the members, and I believe that was even more emphatically demonstrated by the fact that members of the Committee voted differently from most members of their own parties. I did not want to bring the word 'party' into it, but it has been introduced tonight. I do not know how many times the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  used the word 'politics' in the little speech he made. 
And I am replying to the honourable member for Sydney. This particular matter was taken away from that field when this Committee brought down its report. I wonder why the very great preponderance of members of the Labor Party voted against the report of this Committee. Was that playing politics, or did they have no confidence in their leader? Did they have no confidence in the men they have on this particular Committee? Why did they vote in such predominant numbers against the report of this Committee if they were not being political about it? 
It is all very well to accuse members on this side of the House of being disciplined, when they know that this debate is on the air. I want to refute completely that I was in any way disciplined or requested to vote in any way other than what I felt was the right way to vote on this occasion. I believe that all the members on the other side of the House, members of what is known as the Opposition in an ordinary debate, supported the report brought down by the Standing Orders Committee. I do not say that there could not be some improvement to the Committee's recommendations. I do hot say that the amendments moved might or might not have some merit, but the point was that the Committee has gone into the matter thoroughly; I believe it has done a very good job and I have supported it on those grounds. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable, the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Office, policy of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the Public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices which is detrimental to the Public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office, until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Mr Kennedy, Mr Hayden, Mr Lucock, Dr Everingham  and  Mr Kelly. 
Petitions severally received. 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry agree that many primary producers have kept themselves outside the scope of the rural reconstruction provision only by working properties under great difficulty and that many of them are now seriously short of finance with which effectively to operate their rural holding? In view of the need for the provision of more rural finance, will the Government give urgent consideration to the provision of long term loans through a Commonwealth bank - either a rechartered development bank or a new rural bank - to enable them to utilise their properties fully and thereby recover a degree of prosperity to their own benefit and to the benefit of country towns and decentralisation generally? 
I wish to make one or two comments about coal. I had not intended to speak about coal, but I wish to say something in relation to comments that have already been made. One honourable member said that Goonyella is connected by a railway to Hay Point. That is correct. However, nothing was said about who built the railway, and that is part of the whole contract. When this situation is being examined, one must look not only at the royalties and freight rates that are being paid but also at the whole concept of everything connected with it, including who built the railway. I do not have time- to enlarge much on that point, but from listening to the debate as it has occurred in this House this morning one would have gained a wrong impression of the value of the coal industry to Queensland and of the benefits that accrue from the agreements that have been made. 
This morning I should like to talk about the problems of rural industry. I make no apology for talking about these problems because there is a great need in the community today to ensure that rural industry is kept viable. The industry is slowly recovering from a period of droughts and low world prices. It needs all the assistance that can reasonably be provided by governments. Export income from rural industry still is a vital part of our national economy. Unless we give consideration to this aspect of national life we will find that a falling off will occur in this field. I stress that the export income earned from a rural industry is a continuing thing; it goes on. It is not an industry which in the course of time will give out, as mines will. So, it is necessary to maintain rural industry in a viable way, with assistance which is within reasonable limits of government endeavour. I feel - I hope that this proves to be correct - that rural industry has reached the bottom of the trough into which it has fallen and that it will arise from that trough. Indeed, indications are fairly clear that it has reached the bottom and is starting to rise. This is the time when assistance is sorely needed. 
Something which must be provided is adequate long term finance. This is a prime aspect of rural recovery and its full development, lt is said that there are avenues by which this long term finance might be obtained, but my experience is that it is very difficult to obtain. I believe that the situation should be examined with the objective of ensuring that this finance is provided in some way or another if it is not otherwise readily obtainable. Another aspect of this problem relates to government charges. Because of the special circumstances which I have already mentioned, I believe that it is necessary to examine government charges in all sections of the rural economy, including those charges on residents in country towns, with the object of easing the burden on those people of rising costs, which in rural industry generally cannot be passed on in the way that they can be passed on in so many other industries. Of course, this is what causes costs to continue to rise. 
As the time available to me is limited, I must now turn quickly to another factor which is contributing to the drift of people to the cities, namely, the lack of amenities and satisfactory communications, particularly in outlying country areas. The long time that elapses at present between an application for a telephone and its installation must be reduced. The Government deserves full credit for the conditions under which rural telephones can now be installed, but the difficulty of obtaining equipment, materials and technicians to enable telephones to be installed results in the wait being too long. Every effort must be made to find some solution to this problem. Again, I think it is largely a matter of finance. I feel fully confident that if adequate finance were made available for the installation of telephones, a better utilisation of the manpower presently available could be made and better planning of operations would result. This is an area which must be examined. While I concede quite freely that it is not the only problem, I believe that within the aspects and planning of government it is essential that more finance be provided for this particular area. I ask members of this House and the people listening to this debate how they would like to wait for years before a telephone was provided. The running of a property today is a fairly highly specialised business. Would anyone be prepared to say that a business could be handled successfully without a telephone? I do not say that a solution can be found overnight, but I suggest that everything that can possibly be done should be done to enable these telephones to be provided where they are required. 
In addition to that, there is the human element. For example, there are available to people ambulances which they are not able to call because of the lack of telephones. I could go on in that vein to emphasise the need which exists, but I do not think that I should take up any more time to emphasise the real need in this field. The problem will be solved only if the planning is done at this stage and more finance is provided in this particular field. I have been given 3 reasons for the delay in the installation of telephones to country areas. One reason is the lack of technicians, another is the lack of such things as automatic exchanges and equipment, and the other reason is the lack of cable. Here, again, I believe that if finance were made available, although it would not solve that problem completely it would enable forward ordering and, therefore industry probably would be stepped up to meet the orders for equipment needed to solve this problem. I know that, to the Government, it is always a matter of priority of expenditure. There never is sufficient money to provide all the needs of a community. However, 1 stress that the order of priority in the case of telephones should be lifted. 
There are one or two other points that I would like to make in relation to people in rural areas. I mention first education and health. These are 2 matters which are very important to people living in rural areas. In the matter of health, people who must obtain specialist attention cannot get it in many rural areas. They have to travel to capital or provincial cities to receive this attention. The problem with which they are confronted should be carefully examined with the object of providing them with the facilities to enable them to make the journey without undue financial burden to them. This would not cost the community a great deal and it would provide a service which would enable people from country areas to remain in the city while attending their doctors for the special treatment that they require. I believe that there is a very just claim for that and I would like to see this situation examined. 
Another aspect which is contributing to the drift to the cities is education. The cost today of education for people in rural areas, particularly in the outlying areas, is getting well beyond them. This has resulted in the formation of the Isolated Childrens Parents Association, members of which have made great sacrifices and have travelled hundreds of miles to try to prepare a case for State and Federal governments to examine with the object of obtaining assistance. I concur with the objectives of that organisation. A striking illustration of the intensity of this need and the determination of the parents is that, at the annual federal conference of this organisation in Bourke, people from as far away as Western Australia attended. Many of these people can ill afford the time and :he cost of travel to get together to prepare a case to support this very deserving cause. J hope that this matter also will be given serious consideration by the Government and that the Government will help to provide these people with the assistance which will enable them to have what should be the birthright of every Australian child, namely, a reasonable education. 
We have just heard from the honourable honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  a very strong criticism of his own State. There is no doubt that if all honourable members from Queensland were to talk about Queensland in that tone it would be a long time before Queensland reached the stage which the honourable member suggested it should now have reached. Of course, it was simply a political speech made with the idea of trying to help the Australian Labor Party members in Queensland win back some of the prestige they have lost there, when an election is just about to take place. I would like to know what members of the State Parliament have done in this regard. What did the Labor Government do to try to get assistance from the Commonwealth? How successful was it. This is the first time that Queensland has approached the Grants Commission for assistance. It has endeavoured to remain outside the Grants Commission, and it deserves some credit for that. Queensland did apply to the Commonwealth Government for special assistance for the people who are in the very drought-stricken areas. A special grant of $10m was sought. This was refused by the Commonwealth Government because it has to consider all the angles of drought relief and it has to apply the principle generally throughout the Commonwealth. 
Because it was unable to get these funds from the Commonwealth Government, Queensland went it alone and provided the $10m out of its own revenue so that the people who were affected by the drought would be kept viable. The money was only loaned to them but it was loaned because the Queensland Government was unable to get the funds which it felt, which 1 felt and which every honourable member who knows anything about that area would feel were needed so that the people affected could carry on. This was one of the things that put Queensland in a difficult financial position, and although this fact was not included in the case that was presented, Queensland was able to present its case successfully to the Grants Commission and received, perhaps not as much as it required or as much as I would like to have seen it receive, nevertheless a grant which will enable it to provide for the needs of the people in that State. I reject completely the contention of the honourable member for Oxley that Queensland is the most backward State. The way that Queensland is progressing and developing it will take an even higher place in the order of States making progress and developing. 
I agree with the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  It is hard to accept this sort of criticism from someone who, instead of encouraging people to go to that State, is discouraging them, though not in a direct way. The speech he made this afternoon would discourage anyone from investing in that State. One of the reasons for the somewhat unsatisfactory figures in regard to manufacturing development, which the honourable member cited, is that Queensland did not have the necessary population for development because through all the years of a Labor Government in that State no encouragement was given, unlike South Australia, for the development of manufacturing industry. That gave the present Government a very poor start. During the time of the Labor Government .. many branches of industry were established in southern States, and it is against that background that we have to look at the manufacturing figures which the honourable member for Oxley, to the detriment of Queensland, cited in his speech this afternoon. I want to mention too his criticism of the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  for not speaking longer and for not talking about some of the things that are required in Queensland. All I want to say is that the speech made by the honourable member for Herbert was much more beneficial to Queensland than was that made by the honourable member for Oxley. 
The other point I want to make is that to listen to the honourable member for Oxley one would feel that Queensland has had a very raw deal. However, over the last 15 years the people of Queensland - very good judges - have returned the present State Government and on 27th May it will be returned again to continue the work which it has done so well over the preceding 15 years. Queensland is developing in spite of the handicap of one of the worst and longest droughts experienced in that State. Queensland will continue to grow in the manufacturing field and in every other field. I want to refer to the strong criticism made of the handling of Queensland's coal deposits. This has happened before. No 
Labor member whom I have heard speak on this issue has told the whole story; he has told the part that sounds all right. He has told that part about the low royalties and the low rail freights, but he has not said that in this case the railway was built by the mines and that it will be handed back to the Queensland Government. All the details of the whole project have to be looked at to determine the relative value of the agreement to Queensland. It is very easy to half tell a story and to forget the things that make so much difference to the total concept. The Queensland Government has not made an appeal to the Grants Commission before this and I feel that it is fully justified in doing so on this occasion. I appreciate the fact that the Grants Commission has seen fit to provide my State with the funds it is providing. 1 believe the funds will be used effectively to overcome some of the problems which confront Queensland. We do not hear anything about the hospital system that has been operating in Queensland to the great advantage of the people who live there. 1 wonder whether the honourable member for Oxley suggests that this system should not be followed. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  can make his speech later. The hospital system is one of the costs to Queensland, and I want to know from honourable members opposite when they speak in this debate whether they suggest that this system should not be continued so that more money can be made available for other purposes. If they do, I would like to hear them put that proposition. If I remember rightly, the honourable member for Oxley said that the Government had turned down some of Labor's propositions and that it did not want Labor's health proposals. 1 do not blame the Government for not wanting Labor's health proposals. The Government's health proposals are very much better and that is a very good reason for not wanting Labor's proposals. Queensland does not want Labor's proposal for a 35-hour week either to further complicate the difficult conditions under which people are living in Queensland at the present time. We would prefer to see people in Queensland fully employed and progress and development continuing rather than have a little more leisure provided by a  35-hour  week which the Labor Party would certainly try to introduce if given the opportunity. I am not against a shorter working week if the economic condition of the country were able to carry it. That day may arrive, but at the present time if it is forced on the people the economic conditions under which they are living now certainly will be seriously prejudiced and inflation, which is one of the great problems of the day, would be very seriously aggravated. These are some of the proposals which the Labor Party has but which I am confident it will not get the opportunity to introduce because the people will realise that the policy and programme of the Commonwealth and State governments are such that the people are far better off retaining the Government that they already have. 
I do not know what gerrymanders have to do with the Grants Commission. It is fairly wide of the mark. At the same time, in many countries much more closely populated than is Australia provision is made for electorates to be over and under the mean average of electorates. If honourable members opposite do not know this, then it is time they did some reading on it. If that policy is justified in those countries it is more than justified in Australia. There is no gerrymander. The area factor has been taken into consideration in many other countries and it is being honestly used here. It is an insult - I mention this in passing - to people who were very recently in this House to say that there is a gerrymander. The law enables a variation above and below the mean average. This is an accusation against very decent people, and I reject it and resent it. 
I do not want to get on to that subject but I do want to say that the Commonwealth Government has acted correctly in what it has done in regard to Queensland. Do not forget that there has been a tremendous drain on the Queensland State Government. 
I appreciate all that the Commonwealth has done for Queensland during the time that it has been handicapped by these very severe conditions of drought but, during this time, the Queensland Government also has been sorely pressed. It has provided rent remissions on land throughout a large area of the State and, with the assistance of the Commonwealth, has provided rate remissions. There has been a very heavy drain on the Commonwealth Government. Rail concessions were provided, but these are the sorts of things for which no-one seems to give the Government any credit. These actions have kept the people there and have enabled them to survive one of the severest tests they have had to undergo. So, let us tell the full story; let us give the Queensland Government the credit that it deserves for coping with the situation as well as it has done. Let us give the Queensland Government the credit it deserves for not coming to the Grants Commission until it felt that it had to do so. This is a creditable approach by a State government. If Queensland had been able to manage without an approach to the Grants Commission, I am sure that it would have done so. I am sure that the main factor involved in this approach was the special circumstance in which the Queensland Government found itself due to factors well beyond its control. 
Despite all that has been pointed out by using various figures - figures can be juggled to say nearly anything - the Queensland Government and the people of Queensland have done and will continue to do a grand job as a part of this Commonwealth. Their effort will stand comparison with what has been done in most other States, despite the difficulties which they have had to face. I include in those difficulties the problems arising from a small population when compared with the States of New South Wales and Victoria. I hope that the start that has been made by Queensland will be continued. I hope that the assistance through the Grants Commission to Queensland will enable it to get over this period of difficulty in its finances and that its needs will be recognised. I am sure that the Grants Commission has recognised that need, despite the criticisms that the honourable member for Oxley paraded in this House when he quoted from the special report of the Grants Commission. The fact is that the Grants Commission accepted the case for support put forward by the Queensland 
Government. It is the right and, indeed, the duty of the Grants Commission to draw attention to any factor to which it feels some attention might be drawn and, no doubt, if the Queensland Government looked at these factors, it probably could answer more effectively than I can some of the questions that have been raised in this chamber. 
So long as these conditions operate in Queensland and while there is a need for an equalisation of distribution of Commonwealth funds to the States, it is the right and the duty of the Queensland Government to approach the Grants Commission. I hope that its approaches will receive proper consideration. (Quorum formed.) It seems to be a pattern that when the Opposition is being hurt, its members look around to see whether there are any means by which they can quieten the  speaker  who is offering criticism. The calling of a quorum is a good means of doing this and it is used fairly regularly. One of my colleagues just said to me: 'Congratulations. It is an indication that what you are saying is getting home and it is an indication that your speech is sound and well based. They do not like to listen to it.' 
I repeat that the record of the Queensland Government in the last 15 years, despite very difficult conditions, is far and away ahead of anything which was achieved by the Labor government during the many years that it was in office in Queensland and which formed the basis upon which the present Government has had to operate. The difficulty Queensland has had by comparison with South Australia is due very largely to the fact that there was a nonLabor government in South Australia over so many years when South Australia was building up its manufacturing industries, while in Queensland there was a Labor government which deterred the establishment of manufacturing industries in that State. South Australia had the great benefit of a non-Labor government for so many years. This is where the comparison should be taken. 
I think 1 have said enough to show that I believe that Queensland was fully justified in approaching the Grants Commission. The Grants Commission made its decision and made it rightly in the light of evidence provided by the Queensland State Government. I repeat that this is the first time that Queensland has approached the Grants Commission. I give the Queensland Government credit for that. However, I believe that it has done the right thing by approaching the Commission this time. I emphasise that Queensland's approach to the Grants Commission was brought about by the financial circumstances in that State, Queensland's economy has been very adversely affected by drought conditions and, even though it was justified in making this claim, it might not have made it if it had not been for those particular circumstances. I give Queensland tremendous credit for being able to go all this time without ever approaching the Grants Commission. I hope that Queensland will continue to be as independent as it has been in the past while it has sufficient funds to carry on and that it will continue the progress and development that has taken place there over recent years. 
On the other hand, if the finances of Queensland are such as to justify its approaching the Grants Commission, the need and the opportunity for development in Queensland are such that it will fully and effectively be able to utilise the money that is given to the State by the Grants Commission. The only thing that I can see detracting from the progress and development that has been taking place over the last 15 years would be a change of government. This was the aim behind the severe attack on his own State by the honourable member for Oxley. It is a tragedy that we hear those sorts of condemnations being made of a State which has had very grave difficulties but which in fact will become the finest State in the Commonwealth. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the recent announcement by the Prime Minister, following the Government's consideration of the Australian Wool Industry Conference report, will the Minister advise what action is now intended to be taken on the industrybacked marketing changes recommended by the AWIC? Will the Minister also advise what is the position in regard to small bale lots now handled by the price averaging plan? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the importance of having our cattle herds disease free and in view of the regulations to be applied by the United States Government to meat imports by that country, can the Minister advise what progress is being made towards accelerating the tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaign which is now a matter of even greater urgency? Can the Minister further advise what progress has been made towards the establishment of a national compensation scheme which is an important part of the eradication campaign? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
If this matter is before the court, I would ask the honourable member not to refer to it. 
I want to repeat to the House the details of a classical study of the coal mining industry which occurred in England. Exactly the same technologies and machines were used by 2 kinds of groups organised quite differently. In the traditional work group, tasks were assigned to individuals by the supervisor. In the other groups, members themselves decided how the work was to be done. The more autonomous work groups not only produced more but had fewer accidents and higher morale and required very little supervision. Of course, the greater productivity by the autonomous work groups help to make a case for the pay increases, which is as it should be. 
I had a meeting with the postmasters' union. I found that it was the practice of Central Office to decree, for example, that something should be done at North Sydney or down at Wollongong or that a sorting complex was to be put at Artarmon for the electors of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  However, we came to the conclusion that 8 or 9 dedicated postmasters could organise this work much better than could Central Office. In other words, there is a place now for this kind of goup - for a situation where the union leaders and the men who know the work, such as the safety officers in the mines, can work with management and get better results. This is called participation in operation and it is the modern way to approach these problems as opposed to the old way of hatred and attack and the kind of thing that happened at Mount Isa. 
The Minister does not want to comment any further. The question is: That the motion be agreed to. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt should now be debating the motion of dissent from my ruling, which was that the question had been resolved. I think that the honourable member is getting wide of the mark and I ask him to confine his remarks to the motion now before the Chair. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
Tonight in this debate I should like to touch on the value of decentralisation to Australia generally. The basis of decentralisation must, of course, be in maintaining the population that is already in country towns and rural areas. We will not be able to do this at all unless we are able to retain whatever benefits exist in these areas at present, and make all reasonable effort as a government to provide more of those benefits; otherwise the comparison between life in country towns and rural areas and the larger cities will be such as to continue to attract people away from those country areas. If we are to promote decentralisation it is essential that we should try to provide those amenities which are most necessary. Certainly among the most necessary of the amenities that we need in those areas as an aid to living in itself and as an aid to economic production is a satisfactory telephone service. Such a service is vital and it is in this field that I stress the need for a greater allocation of funds. 
I do not believe it can be argued that it is not essential that we should have satisfactory telephonic communications in rural areas today. It is more important now than services to those who have applied for it has ever been in the past. We still find that there is quite a lag in the provision of services to those who have applied for them. Part of that is due to the splendid policy of this Government in its desire to provide a high standard of telephonic communication. It is indeed a necessity that we should have such a standard of line construction that we are able to use the advanced methods of communication that are available to us now, namely, subscriber trunk dialling. It would be impossible to have this on anything less than the ultimate in the way of communications through the lines that are provided because it was recognised - I give the Government full credit for this - that no doubt this would be beyond the capacity of many people to provide. So the Government agreed to provide some 15 miles of line free of cost and charge on a reasonable basis for the rest of the line and for maintaining it. This will enable satisfactory telephonic communication to be maintained. But the flaw in this scheme is that because of the demand that was generated as a result of this offer it was round that a long delay was attendant upon installation after an application had been received. 1 think it must be agreed that in 1972 this is not a tolerable position to be in. The question is: How do we go about rectifying this position? 1 submit that the very first need is the application of more funds to the Postmaster-General's Department, it has been explained to me by those in authority that funds alone are not sufficient to take up the existing lag. But . 1 do not accept it as fact that the provision of more funds would not lessen the gap that already exists. So in this debate tonight I urge that a higher priority be given to this particular aspect of rural life. It is not only a matter of making it economic in the way of production but also there is  a  great human element which I would hope that every member of this House would be conscious of, namely, that within these areas where telephones can be provided - I know that even in my own area and in other parts of Australia there arc areas where telephones are not available but ii is not that type of area that I talk about - telephones should be provided. 
In the development of this country people are trying to cope with modern conditions and wives and families are living in areas where, for example, an ambulance is available but they do not have the means to call it simply because the PostmasterGeneral's Department cannot provide telephone services. People cannot call for an ambulance or fully utilise other services available to them. Surely we must look closely at the need to provide a greater proportion of funds for this particular purpose. 
No government will ever be able to provide the finance needed for every area that comes under its jurisdiction. It becomes a matter of determining priorities and it is my intention tonight to try to encourage the Government and perhaps to demonstrate to the Government the need to lift the priority in this particular field. The programme that is being looked at at the moment and the planning that has taken place will provide for a considerable number of automatic exchanges. Because of this advance the situation must be looked at. We find that there is a lag in the number of automatic telephone services. These are planned to go in a particular position. The present lines that people are using or the lines that might be used if they were to be connected are going in an entirely different direction from where they will go once the automatic telephone exchanges are installed. So in this particular field I urge very strongly indeed that special attention be given to the provision of more automatic exchanges because this is the area in which people are not now able to have phones at all While the supply of these exchanges is limited I suggest in all sincerity that provided a forward order can be given it seems to me to be sound common sense, at any rate, that the building up of the production of these automatic exchanges will be in accordance with the orders that are likely to be received. That is ordinary common business practice. The point is that we are slipping back on the time factor. There was a time - and I have had examples of it - when people were told that they might be able to get a telephone service within 2 years. These people have found that because of the great demand on funds and the lack of automatic exchanges their applications have been delayed and they have been told that it may be 4 years or 5 years  ot  even longer before they will receive these services. I suggest that this is an intolerably long time. 
The honourable gentleman who has just interjected suggests we should blame the Government for that. One of the reasons for the delay is the understanding that the Government has of the need for the provision of the best possible type of service and the benefits that eventually will accrue to people generally, particularly in the country areas by virtue of the policy which has been adopted by the Government. Providing a service has brought about the problem that exists. I venture to suggest that had the Labor Party been in power we would not have had the advantages that have accrued from the Government's policy, though possibly we would not have the lengthy delay that exists at the moment. We have made one good step forward; what we now have to do is to follow it up by providing funds which will enable the policy of this Government to be implemented in the interests of the people about whom I am talking tonight. 1 have been told by people who should know this subject that money alone will not provide what is required. I accept that. But I have also been told by people in the field who know this subject that much more effective use could be made of the manpower and everything else that is available to us - 1 refer to the technicians and the materials that are available - if there were no limitation on finance. I do not , accept the proposition that limitation of finance is not having an adverse effect on the provision of telephone services. My argument is enhanced by the decision of the Government to provide colour television. Tremendous expenditure is involved in this field. I sincerely suggest to the Government and urge most strongly that this lag in the provision of telephone services should be caught up, at least in part before colour television is introduced. In fact I would like to see it caught up completely. In my opinion there is no excuse for any delay in the provision of telephone services because of a shortage of finance while we are contemplating the expenditure of large sums of money for colour television. I am not arguing against colour television. My argument is directed to the priorities that should be given to expenditure by the Government, particularly if it is within the capacity of the Government in today's economy to provide the large sums of money that will be necessary to introduce colour telvision for the community at large. I do not object to the introduction of colour television, but I do object to expending large sums of money if, in the interim, we are not going to make very big inroads on the delay which is occasioned in the provision of telephone services to areas that are so sorely in need of them. 
I want to emphasise to this House that it is of vital importance to people conduct ing businesses in rural areas to have satisfactory telephone services. Unless we provide facilities for them we will be handicapped in providing the economy of production which is very much needed. I would like to follow up this point a little further. One of the greatest costs facing people in the community is the cost of telephone services in areas where those services are available, although this point is of secondary importance. Ever since I have been in this Parliament I have advocated that it is not unreasonable to expect that every subscriber should have a unit call service available to his general business as it is sometimes termed or, to use a phrase which I have often used, a place where medical and professional services are available. Usually that would involve the provision of a unit call service to a person's place of business. Unless this service is provided these people will be handicapped very greatly by virtue of the fact that every time they make a call it will be a trunk line call, even if it is to order a loaf of bread. This adds very greatly to the cost of running a farming or grazing business. I understand the problem confronting the Postmaster-General's Department in providing this facility because it is something which I have discussed regularly with officers of that Department. There is no doubt in my mind that if we are to provide equity among the population of this country this is one matter to which this Government must give very serious consideration. There are areas in which people are able to obtain this type of service, even in some of the fairly widespread areas of this country, but often people who live in nearby districts do not have the same advantages. I appeal to the Government for some degree of equity in its consideration of this matter. 
I have been told that there would not be sufficient lines to enable services to be provided. This brings me back to the old story about a shortage of cable. Again this comes back to the question whether finance is available. If finance were available we could place forward orders, particularly for cable. This is an important matter that I want to emphasise again in relation to this aspect of country living. An annual charge would not be required to provide a service. But unless we bring the services in country areas up to a reasonable standard the inequity will continue. Unless we can catch up this delay will drag on and on. Efforts will have to be made to catch up. I cannot stress this matter too strongly. 
I will not take up all the time that is available to me in this debate because I know that the Government is anxious to get on with the business of the House and I want to set something of an example. I hope it will be followed by other speakers in this debate. This subject is very important as it deals with a very human problem. I condemn some people on the other side of this House who say that members of the Country Party represent trees. I am speaking on behalf of a very deserving section of the community, human beings. I appeal to the Government to provide these benefits to the people in these areas. I make this appeal, not for the trees or the sheep, or because of the criticism that is levelled against members of the Country Party, but for the people whom I represent and who are scattered over 200,000 square miles of this country. All we ask is for some degree of equity in the decisions of this Government. We ask that the Government give some priority in considering the business needs of rural communities. This Government should take into consideration the human aspect which is involved. I cannot too strongly urge this Government to give very full consideration to the points that I have raised in this debate tonight. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will no doubt have seen reports that a major Sydney woolbroking firm has decided against joining other brokers in the Yennora wool handling complex. Will the Minister inform the House whether he shares the stated view of the firm that the consolidation of wool handling at Yennora is undesirable in the interests of growers and the wool trade and that the complex will soon be outdated? 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who has just resumed his seat has given  a  very good example of the general lack of interest or concern of members of the Labor Party for the welfare of people who live in the country areas, including people who operate country radio and television stations and. indeed, the tobacco producers. This example does not surprise me, but I do not know that I have ever heard it explained more fully than it was by the honourable member for Riverina. As my time is somewhat limited, I should like first of all to commend those people who are anxious to improve the health of the Australian community. I strongly support this objective. I commend the Government  foi  the amendment that the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  will move to alter the words of warning which is to be given which, while being just as effective, is more compact and, therefore, more desirable. I propose to support the amendment. 
However, I am concerned with some aspects of the Bill. I contend that a mere announcement following an advertisement on radio or television will not have a significant effect on the consumption of cigarette tobacco. This view is supported by evidence, which I shall bring forward in this debate. Furthermore, I cannot agree that there is any real urgency to introduce this legislation. I know that there is a need to take into consideration the health of the nation, but this is not the only aspect of the problem. When we decide to adopt measures in connection with this matter, we must ensure that we adopt the correct ones. We must be sure that what we are doing achieves in the best way the objective for which we are aiming. 
I believe that more consultations with the broadcasting industry would have produced beneficial results. That industry has views which are helpful and it has proved its co-operation previously. I am strongly of the opinion that the most effective measure which could be taken to achieve the objective of assisting the health of the people through the reduction of lung cancer is the first measure which was mentioned in the Postmaster-General's second reading speech. He said: 
. to conduct through the Commonwealth Department of Health in association with the States an education programme aimed at informing the public of the dangers to health of cigarette smoking. The Commonwealth will provide $500,000 a year for 3 years commencing 1st July 1972 for this purpose. 
I believe that this is the key to the situation and the method we should adopt because not only will it be effective, if anything will be effective, in achieving this objective, but also we will be able to apply it to any other health hazard that faces this country without infringing on the rights of anybody in any other field. To my way of thinking, that is a very important matter in the approach to a democratic way of life. 
The honourable member for Wills has had a lot to say and it has not been worth listening to. So, if he will allow me to have my 10 minutes I will be happy. I believe that this educational programme should be expanded even further. One means by which this could be done would be through consultation with the Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasters. This organisation has shown its willingness to act responsibly in this field, as witness its acceptance of a voluntary code for advertising on radio and television. In view of that, surely it would be reasonable to expect that co-operation with the Government in its educational policy would be forthcoming again. 
I agree also with another comment made in the Postmaster-General's second reading speech. He said: 
. this Government's philosophy rates very highly the freedom of individuals to decide for themselves, within the broad framework of our democratic society, matters concerning their own well-being. 
This is something that is worthy of note. The Minister continued: 
Accordingly it is not recognised as a role of this Government to impose prohibitions on people's freedom of choice except for the most compelling national reasons. 
I agree with that. I believe that when one considers the doubts about the efficacy of putting restrictions on radio and television advertisements one can only conclude that this method would perhaps have insufficient effect to justify its use. I have argued that the proposed restriction on all radio and television advertising of cigarettes will be ineffectual in reducing the total amount of cigarette smoking but, as other speakers have mentioned - I give them credit for it - there may be reason for believing that a reduction or elimination of this form of advertising would be preferable to a reduction in other means of advertising which are not subject to this restriction. If that view is accepted - I am concerned that it might be accepted - it will be a bitter blow for broadcasters who are only too well aware that restrictions on radio advertising, particularly if the restrictions are modified in their application to other media, are doomed to be ineffective. 
In my own electorate, if I may be permitted to talk parochially at the moment, there are 2 commercial radio stations. If they are forced to close that will be a distinct loss to the local community which would then have no medium for radio advertising. These stations broadcast local news and sporting events and provide one of the few amenities available in this area and are an important factor in the life of people living in my electorate. If we are really interested in decentralisation surely when we are making provision to cope with one problem we will not cause anomalies which will have an adverse effect in other areas. 
I emphasise that I do not place even the highly desirable service of commercial radio stations above the health of the nation. My argument is that a restriction on radio and television advertisements will not serve in any significant way to improve the national health level. In support of this contention let me say that since the introduction of the ban on radio and television advertising on 1st January 1971 in the United States, the overall consumption in that country has continued to rise - some researchers have put the rate of increase at 3 per cent. Furthermore, the 1972 report of the Royal College of Physicians in the United Kingdom mentions the example of Russia, where no advertising is allowed - and I hope people will take note of that - and Italy, where a ban was introduced some years ago. In both countries there has been a steady rise in cigarette consumption. I know it is pretty hard to measure the effect of this, or what the rate would have been with it or without it, but it does show that there is reason to have grave doubt as to the effect even of a total ban which the Labor Party would introduce. We are tackling just one health hazard per medium of radio and television. There are other health hazards and one wonders where this sort of restriction will end. I should like to quote a letter that appeared in the Australian' on 12th May last, written by  Dr A.  I. Adams, senior lecturer in the Department of Preventive and Social Medicine at the University of Sydney. The doctor wrote: 
I wish to draw your attention to the implications of the findings reported by  Dr Gillies  and  Dr Skyring  in the Medical Journal of Australia i.May 6), on the consumption of aspirin in Sydney . 
They found that 8 per cent of males and 15 per cent of females ingest aspirin daily and that regular aspirin-takers among women consume 24 powders or tablets each day. These figures support earlier Australian studies that have linked aspirintaking with our high rates of stomach ulcer and kidney disease. 
If we are to have an education programme we could include in it not only the danger of cigarette smoking but also other health hazards. I should like to refer in the brief time that I have remaining to the value of the tobacco industry to my home State of Queensland. The total value of market quota of leaf in 1970-71 was approximately $22,500,000. Apart from the value of this industry to the economy of the State it has a real effect on the welfare, progress and development of towns in areas where it is grown. We must consider this big loss against the effect of this method of trying to control this menace. Much more effort could be spent in trying to produce a tobacco plant which has less tar content than that already used. A public health service study in the United States of America has referred to this possibility and said it was obvious that progressive reduction of tar and nicotine content of cigarette smoke would be of great assistance. My speech tonight has been based mainly on education. I conclude with a quotation from Pope, appropriately enough printed on today's leaf of the desk calendar: 
Tis education forms the common mind. 
Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined'. 
I did not intend to speak in this debate. The Government is often criticised for regimentation. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  has moved an amendment which I believe is a very worthwhile one. I agree with it completely. I feel that the amendment will appeal to the public because it is short. It is more effective because of its shortness and it will be well accepted. I believe that it will serve a purpose. I am pleased to note that at least the honourable members on this side of the Chamber who spoke knew what they were talking about. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  apparently did not know what they were talking about, because they were speaking about amendments not before the chamber, and they had to be corrected in their approach to the whole problem. I say that the honourable member for Isaacs is perfectly entitled in a democratic Parliament to move an amendment. This is the sort of democracy that the Government believes in. It does not stand over its members. I feel that the amendment is a good one. It is serving the purpose for which it was designed. I support it. I congratulate the honourable member for Isaacs for introducing this amendment. 
As a member of the Australian Country Party and of the Public Works Committee I want to support what has been said tonight by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is  Chairman  of that Committee, about its impartiality in looking at these problems, and in particular the matter that is now before the House, I would like to have spoken at greater length on this matter but I have agreed to make my speech short. I simply want to associate myself with what has been said in the House tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
The Minister for Primary Industry will no doubt have seen the announcement of the creation in New Zealand of a wool marketing corporation to operate from 1st July 1973. Does the Minister see this as recognition of the necessity for the introduction of modern marketing techniques to enable wool to compete as a textile fibre? Does the 
Minister regard this decision in New Zealand as being similar to the recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Conference and as lending support for the Australian Government to give early consideration to their implementation in this country? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table read as follows): 

<graphic href="078131197205305_56_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Board is sensitive to this criticism. In its third annual report it publishes statistics to illustrate that its grants in the past have constituted a higher proportion of eligible expenditure for the smallest companies than for the largest companies. Although the point of the Board has some validity, it in no way meets this criticism. The smallest companies may have received a higher rate of grant on their eligible expenditure but such grants would not have been very useful. The average grant for the 10 smallest companies was about $3,600 in 1968-69, an amount, I suggest, that would not pay a trained researcher for 6 months. The figure for the next 10 smallest companies was about $8,700. again hardly a useful figure. In research and development, economies of scale operate, and it could well be argued that, rather than paying small companies a higher rate of grant, it would be better to help them achieve that scale at which economies could be made. But here again the Act is remiss as only the big companies have the resources to set up separate research organisations. This entitles them under the Act to a higher level of grant, and the Board has admitted that such companies get preferential treatment. Thus the Act makes no allowance for the need of smaller companies to be helped to achieve economies of scale. The anomalous nature of the selective type of grant helps perpetuate the process by which small companies, however innovative, find it difficult to get help to develop and market useful inventions. 
This criticism has overtones of a familiar theme: The rich become richer and the poor become poorer. The criticism to be offered now also makes reference to a familiar theme, that is, the propriety and utility of direct overseas investment in Australia. The fact from which the criticism is drawn is that of all grant payments authorised from 1970-71 funds, a minimum of 13 per cent went to overseas firms operating in Australia, and the true figure is certainly higher. The Board's fourth annual report shows which companies were involved and the amount of moneys received by them. A quick selection indicates the following: 

<graphic href="078131197205305_57_4.jpg"></graphic>

It may be that the pattern of grant disbursement in respect of the year 1970-71 represents a departure from the Board's normal practice. I suggest that this is un likely in view of the figures presented in the table incorporated in Hansard, which showed that the pattern of grants over the past 3 years has remained stable. It is thus likely that the relationship established for 1970-71 funds with respect to overseas companies has been the relationship over all years of operation of the Act. Once again the question of justification arises: Why should overseas companies receive such grants? These companies would undoubtedly perform industrial research and development irrespective of whether they received grants from the Australian Government, as their market position depends to some extent on their research. Otherwise stated, these companies are the last to need such encouragement. It would seem that Australia is paying such companies money to create technology which they are supposed to be importing, and is supposed to be benefiting the host country. In effect, these overseas companies are being paid additional money to carry out research, which, owing to their size, they would probably have carried out anyway. The money paid to them could have been employed far better were it used to encourage Australian firms, particularly small ones, to carry out more research and development of relevance to Australia. Why should the Government pay money to overseas companies operating in Australia which are already earning large profits from their Australian operations? 
Now the Bill has. as one of its avowed aims, to lift the level of industrial research and development expenditure in Australia. The new provisions concerning what is in effect a rolling base-year may well have an effect opposed to what the Bill sets out to do. The new base-period expenditure provision - that is, the average of expenditure in 3 consecutive years with a lag of one year between the final base year and the grant year - clearly is intended to force industry to raise its industrial research and development expenditure constantly in order to obtain further aid under the industrial research and development grant scheme. But in fact, much of industry will be unable to continue to increase industrial research and development expenditures constantly. This is of some significance as far as the Australian industrial structure is concerned. The companies that will drop out of this race earliest will be the smaller companies. Thus this Bill once again will discriminate against the smaller companies which, in the greater proportion, will not be able to afford these increases. Only larger companies will be able to afford to continue increasing research and development expenditures. Thus the result of this Bill may well be actually to decrease the level of research and development expenditure in Australia, by taking away incentives from the smaller companies. I suggest that this is not an idle criticism. Influential sections of Australian industry have already demonstrated concern over this provision. 
The philosophy the Bill reflects is a formalistic approach to the matter of research and development. The Government feels that by attempting to force up the level of research and development expenditures, more research and development will be done. The formalism of the Bill extends into other areas. The IRDG scheme, as it has operated in the past, reflects the idea that if 'professionally qualified' researchers are employed to supervise research and development, the research and development performed will certainly be better for such supervision. It may well be, but the scheme does not recognise an elementary fact - that in industry, and especially in the smaller firms, there are many brilliant but so-called unqualified persons who possess the skills and motivation necessary to the performance of fruitful research and development. The scheme, in effect, subscribes to the notion that a Ph.D. researcher, no matter how inexperienced, will always be better qualified to supervise research and development than another person, no matter how experienced and brilliant. The scheme should take into account the fact that high academic qualifications are not always a good qualification for industrial research, and the Government should devise a scheme which would allow smaller firms performing research and development without professional assistance to be supervised by professionally qualified and experienced people recognised and licensed by the Board, if need be. 
The criticisms I have expressed relate not only to the effects of the last scheme, some of which have been undesirable - I said in my opening remarks that the Act has been almost completely rewritten - but also to the internal contradictions of the last scheme which are actually to be perpetuated and exacerbated by the proposed new scheme. The formalism of the scheme may lead to unexpected effects such as an actual decrease in research and development. This formalism also reflects itself in the provisions regarding professional qualifications. But in particular - this is the most worrisome and serious aspect of the issue - the scheme actively discriminates against smaller companies, no matter how fruitful their research and development endeavours may be. This scheme, if it does lead to increased research and development expenditure, is not likely to lead to the performance of more and better research and development. Its emphasis is on quantity rather than on quality, and the smaller companies will be the losers. This means on the whole that the Australian operated and owned industries will suffer. 
The Government seems not to have consulted with small industry in particular on this Bill. I suggest that the Minister would be well advised to postpone this Bill until such time as industry has had an opportunity of seeing what the recommendations of the interdepartmental committee were. In conclusion, the provision of more and more money for industrial research and development can never be a substitute for careful planning and careful formulation of criteria on the type of research and development which is required by and in the best interests of Australia. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Dawson. In view of the answer given by the Minister to the honourable member for Dawson, can the Government take any further action which would help to prevent the sale of sugar to the People's Republic of China being made a political issue by the Australian Labor Party and thus jeopardising the continuing trade in this commodity as happened in the case of wheat? 
The Minister for Primary Industry no doubt will be aware of the results of the opening of yesterday's wool sales at Melbourne which indicated an increased demand for wool. Does the Minister see the possibility of this demand continuing and does he also see it as justification for this Government's policy of assistance to the wool industry in its time of severely depressed prices during 1971? 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  criticised the Government for being dilatory in not having introduced this measure before now and in not having seen the need for this Bill which extends the prescribed period for the matching financial arrangements. In fact, this area has not been within the province of the Commonwealth Government but of the State governments, if they desire to take action. In fact, this is what is done in Tasmania. It is very easy to try to attack the Commonwealth Government on every field whether or not it is the Commonwealth's fault. Honourable members opposite gloss over the State responsibilities and try to pretend or endeavour to convey that the Commonwealth has been at fault in this direction whereas, in fact, it has not. The Commonwealth Government has provided the extra time which was needed. 
I recognise that, as is now widely recognised, pre-school education has become a very important part of the total education system. Despite what has been said, I believe it would be fair enough if we were to accept the fact that the advantages of pre-school education were not as fully recognised as they might have been until comparatively recent times. There has not been the acceptance of the fact that pre-school training could play the important part in the total education of a child which is now quite clearly demonstrated that it does. We realise and accept the fact that quite young children can absorb information quite effectively. It is particularly important that teachers receive specialist training in this field if the full advantage of this type of education is to be provided for our children attending pre-schools. It was once felt that almost anyone could undertake preschool training. That concept has gone by the board and I believe that it now is recognised throughout the Commonwealth that at least a 3-year training period is necessary for pre-school teachers. 
It is pleasing for me to note that while this is becoming increasingly recognised, my home State of Queensland has the highest percentage - some 94.5 per cent - of pre-school teachers with pre-school training qualifications. Of course, it is obvious that there are only about 5.5 per cent of pre-school teachers in Queensland, who do not have training as pre-school teachers. However, I realise that there is a need for more pre-school centres in that State. When the centres are provided they will need trained teachers and they will be able to call upon the fully trained teachers who will be available as a result of this Bill. I was pleased to note that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his speech last Thursday night said: 
At the same time I would stress that I see the existing voluntary bodies as continuing to play an important role in the pre-school area. 
I desire to pay a warm tribute to those people who have dedicated themselves to providing pre-school education for children in many areas of the Commonwealth. Of course, I am more conversant with those people in my own State, where quite small towns have been provided with pre-school education. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable gentleman is out of his seat. 
The honourable member will learn if he listens, but the trouble with him is that he does not seem to learn to listen. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The document read as follows: 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  expressed concern in his speech about the degree of unemployment. I am sure that all members agree that we want to reduce the level of unemployment. However, the honourable member criticised the Commonwealth Budget from that angle. I just want to say that the Budget generally is designed, and I believe will do so very effectively, to stimulate the economy and this is the best basis upon which unemployment can be relieved. Therefore I believe the Budget is in fact one which is designed to help relieve unemployment by way of stimulating the economy. 
By common consent this is one of the most comprehensive Budgets ever presented to the Federal Parliament. I compliment the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Government on it. Also I would say - and I do not think I would be speaking in any biased way - that it has been one of the most favourably received budgets because it has provided great benefits for many people in a responsible way. The Budget will give more substantial benefits to more people in total and in relation to the population than any Budget for a very long time, if indeed there has ever been a Budget that has given such substantial benefits to the percentage of the population as are provided by this Budget. 
As I have said, the benefits are to be provided in a very responsible fashion. An overall deficit of $630m in a Budget of approximately $10,00Om is not a big deficit; it is by no means a large deficit when compared with the total involved. The Budget domestic deficit is only $60m. We have constantly heard - and during this debate this has been one of the subjects which has probably been most strongly stressed - about the problem of inflation in Australia. I would like to tell the Parliament and the people of Australia that Australia's performance in coping with inflation will stand comparison with other nations around the world. Figures have been given in relation to this matter, but I would like to quote some figures which I have received from the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. The figures relate to a comparison made between Austrafia and Japan, the United Kingdom, France. West Germany and the United States of America. I will not mention the West German figures because they do not go far enough for purposes of a comparison to be made across the board. Therefore, I will compare Australia with Japan, the United Kingdom, France and the United States of America. I think that honourable members will agree that they are nations which have great resources and which are among the affluent countries of the world. 
For the purpose of the comparison I asked the Research Service to obtain figures for a 5-year period - 1965 to 1970. Taking the base as 1965 equals 100 points we find Australia in front of them all. From 1965 to 1970 - and these are the latest figures that I was able to get - inflation in Australia rose from 100 to 121 points; the United States, which was nearest the Australian figure, rose from 100 to 122 points; Japan was next rising from 100 to 124; and the United Kingdom and France rose from 100 to 127. Therefore, from these figures we can see that any suggestion that Australia has not coped with its problem of inflation equally as well as the nations 1 have mentioned can be completely refuted. 
Even more than that, if we take the last 2 years that were available to me - that is 1969 and 1970 - the figures are even more complimentary to the Australian handling of the situation. Using the same base, I find that the level of Australian inflation rose from 117 in 1969 to 121 in 1970. The nearest country was France which had an increase from 121 to 127 points. Therefore, Australia had a rise of 4 points against a 6 points rise for France. In other words, France the country nearest Australia in this comparison, had a rise of almost 50 per cent greater than that of Australia. Inflation in the United States rose from 115 to 122, a rise of 7 points; in Japan the rise was 7 points - from 117 to 124; and in the United Kingdom the rise was from 118 to 127, or 9 points. I asked that the figures which were made available to me be not taken from any specific area. In fact, I think that the figures which were made available to me show in no uncertain fashion the success that this Government has achieved in coping with inflation compared to what has been achieved in other countries. 
I believe that one of the most important parts of this Budget, not only from a rural industry point of view but also from a national point of view - and I am very pleased there has been some acceptance of this as a national need - is the provision of long term loans for primary industry. I believe that this is the most welcome part of the Budget for many primary producers who are suffering from a shortage of finance. This is a problem which has confronted primary industry for many years. Long term loans for primary industry are essential if we are to enable many people in rural areas to carry on their businesses. The Budget provides $20m for this purpose. 
We know that there are various means by which financial assistance can be provided, but whatever means are used, whether the scheme is implemented through a new rural bank or in some other way, the scheme must be got under way. The point that I want to stress in connection with this is the urgency of providing assistance. It has been said that legislation will be brought down during this session to implement the scheme. I urge the Government to act quickly. If there is to be any delay in establishing the new bank I would suggest that as a next best thing the Commonwealth Development Bank should be rechartered to allow it at least to provide long term loans for primary industry, the need for which is essential. A rechartering of the Commonwealth Development Bank in the way I have suggested would not be detrimental to the establishment of a new rural bank because the division of the Development Bank dealing with long term rural finance could be used as the nucleus of a new rural bank which would follow and which I believe is necessary. 
During my travels throughout my electorate I have found the most talked of subject to be this provision of finance to give assistance to rural industry and the fact that in the past rural finance provided in many areas has not been sufficient to give the across-the-board assistance that has been necessary. In the past people have been assisted because they have been in grave difficulties. Many very deserving people who have not reached that stage are nevertheless in need of finance. I hope that action will be taken as quickly as possible to implement this measure. 
One problem associated with this is the extreme difficulty that we have always experienced in overcoming the attitude that we are adopting a sectional approach by providing rural finance. So often it has been designated in that way by the metropolitan media. However, they have overlooked the fact that this finance is required for industries which are vital to the welfare of Australia as a nation and that it could do much to encourage people to remain in areas other than the capital cities. They forget also that any viable contribution towards this end is ultimately of advantage to our nation and to our overcrowded cities. One of the heartening factors in relation to the acceptance of a national approach for long term finance for rural industry is demonstrated in an editorial which appeared in the Sydney Sun' on 17th August this year. The editorial, under a heading 'Easing Despair from Debt', stated: 
Most of us have got some idea of what it's like to be in debt. 
But nothing can be quite so despairing as being in debt and trying to make a living in the country. 
The outlook for many thousands of people, farmers little and big, is not just daunting - it's horrifying. 
Many of them owe everything except their pride and determination to see it out. 
Many more owe so much they have been driven to the cities. Shouldering their bad debts for the rest of their days. 
I emphasise the next part, which stated: 
This is a nation that owes its existence to what its rural industries earned overseas. 
Industries still vital to Australia. 
The plan for a national rural bank revealed yesterday by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  is one welcome way to help them. 
Help stall the creditors and promote sound investment other than handouts. 
The farmers haven't had much of a break. Not even with the weather. 
They don't want charity. Just understanding and time to pay. 
That is the sort of approach that I welcome in the metropolitan media. I hope that this editorial will be followed by a broader approach to this question throughout the media of this country. It was certainly heartening to me to see the change of attitude in this article. 
I should like now to touch on another matter which is affecting the country generally and rural areas in particular. Let me refer to the discussion about the appreciation or otherwise of our currency. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has taken the stand that the Australian dollar should be appreciated. Whatever excuses might be offered in regard to what he said - for example, that it is only an expression of personal opinion - the fact is that the Leader of the Opposition has taken a clear stand on this issue, and if his views do not reflect the opinion of the Opposition, if he is out of touch with the Australian Labor Party's policy, if his opinions are not worth anything to the members of his Party, he should resign and make way for someone who can speak authoritatively for the Labor Party. However, I do not think that the Leader of the Opposition will be placed in that embarrassing position because I am of the opinion that he is voicing the majority Labor Party viewpoint on this issue. 
Despite the fact that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the Opposition's Shadow Minister for Primary Industry, has expressed opposition to that statement, I do not believe that the honourable member for Dawson and those few people in the Labor Party who support him will cut much ice in the general Labor Party Caucus. For very clear evidence of this let me refer to what happened at the meeting of the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party at Launceston when the policies of the honourable member for Dawson were rejected in favour of the policy put up by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The honourable member for Dawson was so put out about it that he appeared on television and was highly critical of the decisions of that Conference. He said that he felt sorry for Labor members in rural areas holding marginal seats. Here is a noise coming in. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is trying to interject never stops talking, and never says anything. 
No doubt efforts will be made to patch up, at least publicly, the division that is obviously showing within the Labor Party. ] believe that the thinking that exists in the Labor Party will favour the Leader of the Opposition instead of the honourable member for Dawson, because the Labor Party - even in its efforts in this House - has shown itself to be a fragmented body of people without the capacity to govern. All the media have agreed that Labor has once again shown publicly the extent of the serious differences of opinion that exist within its ranks. How can Labor be an effective Government when it has these divisions which cannot be kept under cover, which cannot even be kept within the Party room and which are ventilated on the floor of this House in no uncertain fashion? 
I hardly need emphasise the tragic effects of the policy expressed by the Leader of the Opposition because the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  the honourable member for Dawson and others have done this quite effectively. Nevertheless, I would again stress the fact that while such a policy would be disastrous for primary producers and would perhaps be the last straw for them, it would also be the last straw for many manufacturing industries which would not then be able to compete with imports. Thus unemployment would be very greatly increased. The honourable member for Braddon who preceded me in this debate spoke about unemployment. I believe that revaluation would be one way in which unemployment would be very greatly aggravated. I can imagine nothing which could be more likely to cause an inflow of capital into Australia in the hope that a change of government would almost certainly result in a substantial appreciation of the Australian dollar than the statements of the Leader of the Opposition. These are the facts. I emphasise them again. They have been mentioned before but I think some of them are worth repeating. There is a very great fear in the minds of the Australian people that any possible alternative government would be absolutely disastrous for this country. 
I want to refer now to estate duty. One of the outstanding features of the Budget is the substantial reduction in estate duty. The burden of providing insurance to cover these duties has become quite beyond the capacity of many primary producers, and other people as well. The position has been reached in which a family could be in a sound financial position one day and could be virtually insolvent the next day as a result of the death of the father. This intolerable position will now be very greatly relieved. Mothers of families will be able to live without the fear of having to meet an assessment for death duties which they know is beyond their capacity to pay. This humane aspect of the Budget is worth emphasising. The Government has accepted its responsibility in this field and is carrying out a policy which I hope will mean the complete abolition of death duties. This will be an added incentive for young men to stay on the land, as they will now have a more reasonable chance of carrying on the family property after the death of the father. This did not apply in Queensland a few years ago, before the Federal Government and the Queensland Government made a reduction in death duties. But that reduction was not enough. The proposed very substantial reductions in Federal death duties will be a very welcome relief. I trust that the State governments will follow the lead which has been set by the Federal Government, as was done previously by Queensland. State governments collect considerably more in death duties than the Federal Government collects, and the need for a further reduction in State fees is quite obvious. 
In the comparatively short time remaining to me in this debate I want to refute the suggestion that this is a rich man's Budget. It has been constantly put that this is a rich man's Budget. But when one looks at any section of it one sees that this is not the case. Let us look at the subject which I have just been discussing - estate duties. In regard to suburban estates going wholly to close relatives, an estate with a net value of $40,000 at present attracts duty of $937, but the new duty will be nil; for an estate with a net value of $60,000 the present duty is $3,500, but the new duty will be $937; and an estate with a net value of $150,000 is at present subject to duty of $25,500, but this will be reduced under the terms of this Budget to $21,642. So how can the Opposition claim that this is a rich man's Budget? The examples which I have just given emphasise that it is not. Honourable members can go into every other aspect of this Budget and find that the position is the same. 
With regard to taxation, a man with an annual taxable income of  $40,000  will have his tax reduced by 7.2 per cent; the tax on a taxable income of $20,000 will be reduced by 8.7 per cent; at $10,000 the reduction will be 12.6 per cent; and at $5,000 it will be 22.4 per cent. I could go on giving example after example to refute completely the Opposition's story that this is a rich man's Budget. It is no such thing. It is a Budget which caters for the more deserving sections of the community which the Australian Labor Party claims to represent. The Opposition has moved an amendment in respect of this very worthwhile Budget, which of course it had to do because it was in a spot and had to try to catch some votes somehow in the face of a very well received Budget. 
One other matter to which I wish to refer is the problem faced by wheat growers in rural areas. The growers have had to try to carry on over many years with a payment of $1.10 per bushel, but their costs have been increasing all the time. It is a fact, however unpleasant it may be to hear about it, that growers will find it impossible to continue to meet these constantly rising costs without some increase in their net returns. I believe that, as has been pointed out, the market at the moment does not offer a lot in this field and that the position should be examined to see what can be done to assist growers. One way of assisting them could be by consultation between State governments and the Federal Government with a view to reducing government charges. Freight charges also could come under investigation. In regard to local government rates, assistance for local authorities is something which is very urgently in need of examination. Land rents in many instances are much too high in relation to the earning capacity of the properties. I think that we have to look at the question of whether the basis on which land rents are charged is equitable in the light of present day conditions. 
Finally, as the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  is at the table, I would like to refer to another way in which I believe people in rural areas could be helped, and that is by regarding telephone calls to the main centre of business as local calls. I have always felt that the PostmasterGeneral's Department should be a department which is not only one which is of service to the community but also one which can be used to help to promote decentralisation throughout Australia. I believe that there are avenues in which this Department could be used to achieve decentralisation. The greatly inflated telephone charges that have to be paid by both individuals and businesses in rural areas represent a major handicap to any effective decentralisation policy and a severe social disability to country dwellers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member can state where he has been misrepresented at the conclusion of the speech of the honourable member for Grayndler. 
That is the position to which I refer today and that is why the Treasurer had to produce a bonanza in the Budget on 15th August. Would honourable members opposite, with a sordid background like that, not want to get away from their sins? Would they not want to take the public's mind off the matter? Would they want the public to know that the old shotgun wedding is on the rocks on the eve of a Federal election and that members of the Country Party are at the throats of the Liberals? The honeymoon is over. The Country Party does not want the Liberals and the Liberals do not want the Country Party. Would honourable members opposite not want to hide this behind a lot of matters about which people can talk? It is not the wish to care for the people that is behind this Budget but rather the fear that the people will realise what is happening in the ranks. 
In this country today 112,000 people are unemployed under a Government which in 1949 said that it would maintain full employment. Today, 112,000 people are being denied the right to work. Even with the bonanza that the Government will give out on this occasion, not a penny extra will go to this section of the community and the poor devil who is unable to get a job and who is willing and able to work must exist on $25 a week under this Government at a time when the average income is about $100 a week. With these things happening personally and politically, the sky had to be the limit because, with this situation and with an election pending, what else could the Government do? 
I do not have time to cover everything contained in the Budget but let me say this: This Government cannot be trusted. Why trust the Government? It was elected 23 years ago. It is discredited, unpopular and unprincipled and is bringing out of the hat now rabbits that should have been produced more than 20 years ago. This Budget is nothing more or less than a cynical attempt to purchase votes. Nothing has been possible for years but the Government now is providing everything on the eve of an election in an endeavour to save the discredited collection of members who masquerade as a government on the other side of this Parliament. 
Let us have a look at what they did in 1949. Who will ever forget the promises they made? That is why on this occasion the public should never believe the promises of this Government. Remember when the Liberals said they would put value back in the 1? I do not say it facetiously, but the reason that the Government changed the currency was to get away from that promise and that is why the people of this nation today have dollars instead of pounds. Now the Government says in this Parliament that it will abolish the means test. I should like to quote from the policy of the Liberal-Country Parties in 1949 - 23 years ago. Even the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  was a young man then. The aspiration for full employment was one thing mentioned. In respect of the means test, the policy stated: 
Australia still needs a contributory system of national insurance against sickness, widowhood, unemployment, and old age. It is only under such a system that we can make all benefits a matter of right, and so get completely rid of the means test. 
During the new Parliament- 
This is 1949, mind you - we will further investigate this complicated problem, with a view to presenting to you at the election of 1952 a scheme for your approval. Meanwhile, existing rates of pension will, of course, be at least maintained. 
Now, 23 years later, the Liberal Party has not come down with a plan for the abolition of the means test; it simply proposes setting up an inquiry. The Government cannot be trusted to do this and the people of 
Australia should know it. Again in 1951 the Liberal Party mentioned this matter in its policy. I frankly admit that it has not had as good looking a leader for a long time as it had then. In the 1951 policy, in respect of pensioners, the Liberal Party said: 
We will look after them. We may be relied upon to do full justice to their needs, as we have done before. Meanwhile we are, as we promised, working on the important problem of providing national retiring allowances on a basis which will not discourage thrift. 
So I say to the people of Australia that at the speed the Liberal Party has been going, finding the Women's Liberal League after 76 years, and planning to abolish the means test 23 years later, it will be the year 2001 before a plan is brought down for the Australian people. That is why in this Parliament members opposite should not be trusted. 
With respect to the proposed taxation concessions, I will bet 2 bob to a penny that they will all be removed if this Government gets back next year. The former Prime Minister, the late Harold Holt, had a 5 per cent taxation concession going on and off, playing ducks and drakes with the Australian people for so long that we forgot when the concession was on and when it was off. If this Government continues in office I suspect that we will face the same situation because the fact of the matter is that the Government cannot be trusted in respect of its policies. The Government has no unity on any question. We have heard of the means test proposals of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  According to the 'Age' of 27th June he described the means test as unjust but on almost the same day - it was the day before, 26th June - the Treasurer was reported as saying that he was against the abolition of the means test for pensions. He is reported to have said that the Government felt unable to abolish the means test because it would mean a substantial redistribution of income from the working population to people with income or property large enough to exclude them from full or part pensions. When the Treasurer announced the Government's proposal the other night he said: 
The decision to abolish the means test is a historic decision and represents a major social advance. 
The situation is almost as silly as a Laurel and Hardy comedy. With the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Services it is a case of on again, off again, yet they tell us that this is a great and major reform. The people are being taken for a ride. Everyone knows that this is just an election gimmick and that there is no promise in the Budget that the means test will be abolished. The Treasurer has said that he does not believe in its abolition. If honourable members study the Budget Speech they will see that the abolition of the means test is only going to be investigated. If the honourable member for Boothby, the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation, asks me where the money will come from, 1 can only say that he must not know where the Liberals will get the money to implement its proposal. They are in' the cart on this particular issue. 
I particularly want to .mention one or two other matters relative , to the Budget. The Prime Minister speaks, a lot about law and order and supporters of the Government tackle members of. the Labor Party on this question. Recently I- picked up an edition of the 'Age' and I thought that what I read was strange, coming as it did from a Prime Minister who claimed that he was a law and order Prime Minister. A report in the 'Age' of 20th May states: . 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is confident that his Government will 'murder' the Labor Party at the coming Federal election. 
I think you could say we will murder the brutes,' he said last night in an election rally party in a fruit packing ham at Nare Warren North. 
That town sounds as though it could be, somewhere in the electorate of the honourable member for Mallee. The Prime Minister talks about law and order yet says 'we will murder the brutes- meaning mc. Opposition members, the Leader of the Opposition and people generally. According to the Press report the Prime Minister then did a barn dance. I have been told that he was even out of step in that. The Prime Minister is a modest fellow - 'Cassius McMahon' we could call him. The 'Age' report continued: 
Never in the history of Liberal Government,' he said, 'whether with  Sir Robert,  whether with Harold Holt, whether with John Gorton or not, 1 believe that in the past 14 or .16 months we have carried out a series of reforms- that have never been equalled'. 
That is a modest statement from a modest little man, yet this is the man who is going to 'murder the brutes'. Is it not shocking to hear this? 
I summarise briefly what I want to say on this Budget. The Government has given to the greedy instead of to the needy. If one checks the proposed taxation concessions one will find that they help most those who do not need them so much - the high income group - rather than the lower income groups. Pensioners will get $20 a week from this magnificent Government at a time when the average weekly income is $100. Married pensioner couples will get $34.50. If they have no other income that is all they will have to exist on at this stage. Almost 250,000 are in this category. Government policy, right down the line, has been to give the minimum to those people who most need it to give more to those who might well do without. The Government's proposals concerning supplementary assistance to pensioners, abolition of the means test and the wife's allowance all have been plundered from Labor Party policy over the years. 
If a person examines the concessions to pensioners he wal find that a situation exists under which those with nothing at all will still suffer under the Government. The unemployment and sickness benefits is unchanged and a man and his wife will receive only $25 a week. It is a good thing that we have an immigration programme because the maternity allowance of $30 to $35 has been unchanged since 1943, almost 29 years ago. I think that most members of the Liberal Party are so old that they have forgotten what, kids look like otherwise they could not possibly have neglected to increase the maternity allowance. Child endowment remains unchanged after 24 years. Pensioners cannot afford to die because the funeral benefits are so meagre. Guardians' allowances are unchanged as are mothers' allowances. Recipients of all these benefits will suffer because the Liberal Party does not care for them. It merely looks for votes. 
If honourable members examine the proposed taxation concessions right down the line they will find that this Government has now decided that a person earning up to $20 a week will not have to pay taxation. If a person gets $20 a week his taxation will be reduced by 10c a week. Is that not really lovely? The person earning $100,000 a year will enjoy a reduction of $2,565 a year in his taxation and he will pay the some rate of sales tax as a pensioner. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. The Government has refused to deal adequately with the inflow of overseas capital and with the development of the nation. It has handed out, like a bonanza, benefits which it thinks will save it. I think it is too late to save this Government which is trembling on the brink of political doom. Its discreditable, cynical and unprincipled misuse of the Parliament and the nation's finances for blatant political gain is clear. I think that even you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will agree that it is time for a change. It is time for a Labor government. I support the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
As a member of the Public Works Committee I feel impelled to take part in this debate. I want to refute the idea that because works are undertaken in a particular part of the Commonwealth they are carried out necessarily in the interests of the member who represents that particular area. For instance, this year the Committee considered a proposal to build a post office at Bathurst. I think that some members on this side of the House paid a very warm tribute to the work that had been done by the member who represents the area in which the post office is to be built. Other honourable members object to any credit being given to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  for the part he has played in having similar buildings constructed in his electorate. In point of fact, the Public Works Committee examines work to be carried out right throughout the Commonwealth. 
As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has mentioned, a great strain has been placed on the members of the Public Works Committee. I do not claim any special credit in this regard because I have not been on some of the trips and I will not be going to New Guinea. I would like to ask the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  whether he suggests that by going to New Guinea we are doing some electioneering? These points have to be taken into consideration. As every honourable member knows, the Northern Territory comes under the direct control of the Commonwealth. Naturaily because of the size of the Territory, the Public Works Committee has to undertake more investigations in that area than in other areas of the Commonwealth. It is wrong to suggest that the Committee is doing certain work because this is an election year. 
During the time that I have been a member of the Public Works Committee we have constantly visited the Northern Territory. I was in the Territory twice during the winter recess. We have visited the Territory on many occasions and I believe that a wrong impression has been left in the minds of honourable members. 1 pay a tribute to the other members of the Committee who have worked so earnestly and energetically in trying to arrive at correct decisions. I believe that the Committee has considered projects from a broad national outlook, and this has helped to make working on the Committee much more pleasant than otherwise might have been the case. 
I thank the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for the compliment which he has paid to the Committee. Although I may not attend Committee hearings as regularly as do other members of the Committee, the other members deserve the full credit that has been paid to them. I deprecate this idea of trying to link the Public Works Committee with any suggestion that the works are carried out in order to gain some political advantage. Works in all parts of Australia have been referred continuously to the Public Works Committee. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Minister for Primary Industry will no doubt be aware of the warm welcome given by rural producers, financial institutions and even the city Press to the announcement by the Treasurer in the Budget of the provision of $20m for long term rural loans. Will the Minister inform the House whether a decision has been reached on how this amount is to be made available to farmers and also when enabling legislation might be introduced into the Parliament? 
Tonight I want to refer to an article in the 'Sunday Mail' of 10th September 1972 written by Jack Lunn. It is headed 'Many Small Towns are Ailing'. It refers to an analysis of post-war population trends by  Mr Brian  Marsden, a Queensland University lecturer in urban geography. I think that the word 'urban' should be noted.  Mr Marsden  has done a great disservice to country towns and, like so many university lecturers, shows a deplorable lack of knowledge of the conditions which have caused the problems facing country towns. These problems can and will be overcome. The first major difficulty has been an unprecedented run of drought years with only spasmodic relief. On the law of averages, western Queensland must be due for a return to normal seasonal conditions. The second problem has been low world prices for some primary products, particularly wool and mutton. Due largely to Government action, the price of wool has recovered substantially, and lamb and mutton prices now give a reasonable return to the producers 
Against this background, all that is needed for a recovery of the towns in wool growing areas hi particular is a return to normal seasonal conditions plus adequate long term finance. This latter requirement will be dealt with as a result of the undertaking given in the Government's recent Budget. What is needed now in country towns and districts is some understanding and appreciation of the value of the production that comes from these areas and which will continue in the future to contribute in a very substantial way to Australia's general prosperity. Australians resent seeing anyone kicked when they are down, and in effect that is what this article does to our country towns. I do not think that honourable members could imagine anything more depressing for residents of country towns than to read in the article the following words; 
Cruel as it may seem, I favour abandoning the outback pastoral centres to their fate, at least for the next 20 years. 
I think that that is a very grave disservice to those people who have managed to keep those towns which service the great pastoral industry going. I am not the only one who takes issue on the need to maintain these towns. The statement in the 'SundayMail' of last Sunday comes at a time when these towns need encouragement and assistance more than they needed it at any other time. 
We find this sort of discouragement in other areas too. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  when visiting Dirranbandi, a western town in my electorate, in March gave residents of that town and consequently similar towns no reason to expect that a Labor government had any answer to their problems. The people there were bitterly disappointed because he had nothing to offer and because he showed a lamentable lack of understanding of the difficulties confronting them and the wool industry on which such towns are based. At Dirranbandi he said: 
There is no short term or no certain approach to the future of wool. There are not enough markets to take all Australian wool. Most advanced countries are now finding synthetics most adaptable to their needs. 
That statement was made in March. It indicates how wide of the mark he was and how close to the mark the Government's policy was, with the Australian Wool Commission buying in the wool and stabilising the industry. I believe that that statement is not out of character for the Leader of the Opposition. It is not out of line with his general thinking. He showed the same lack of sympathy and lack of understanding of country people as long ago as August 1965 when, in a newspaper article headed 'Concentrate on Better Cities', he stated: 
Too much attention is being paid to the wishes and needs of rural areas, and too little to the needs of the cities. 
Cities and civilisation go hand in hand. By derivation civilised men are those who live in the cities. Pagans are those who live in the country. 
That was what the Leader of the Opposition said. It is obvious that people in country towns and rural districts can expect no sympathy from a Labor government. 
If people like  Mr Marsden,  who wrote the article in the 'Sunday-Mail', want to abandon country towns, they have a narrow, biased and uninformed attitude to the people who live in these towns and the districts surrounding them. That statement is not just my opinion. I am very pleased to be able to quote from another metropolitan newspaper. In an editorial on the same subject the Sydney 'Sun' on 17th August said: 
This is a nation that owes its existence to what its rural industries earned overseas. 
Industries still vital to Australia. 
The farmers haven't had much of a break. Not even with the weather. 
They don't want charity. Just understanding and the time to pay. 
It is not the complete quotation, but the complete quotation would be just as favourable to that point of view. The reason why I speak tonight is to defend these country towns and the people who live in them and the people who live in the districts surrounding them. They have had a gruelling time. They have endeavoured to maintain this section of Australian production. They have not had all the advantages that people living in cities and provincial towns have had. I believe that they have now reached the stage where they could be on the way back. What they need is a run of reasonable seasonal conditions and adequate long term finance. 

 Mr Marsden, many university academics and other people should recognise the debt that they owe to residents of country towns and rural areas, as was so fairly and effectively acknowledged in the editorial in the Sydney 'Sun' of 17th August. If Australians are not prepared to utilise the great national advantages of the Australian inland, despite the present difficulties, then they are not worthy successors of the people who pioneered this great country and the outback areas of it. I am firmly convinced that western Queensland generally will recover from the difficult conditions that have been suffered over recent years and that in the next few years we will once again see prosperous western towns and districts playing their full part in the progress and development of Australia. 
I refute completely the prophecy of gloom of  Mr Marsden.  I do so because I believe that the drift in population that has occurred has come about as a result of the unusual, exceptional conditions 1 have mentioned. When these conditions are corrected, as they have been corrected as far as the price of wool, mutton and lamb is concerned, we will see a return, with a reasonable, average seasonal condition in those areas. There are lots of interjections. As an indication of how wise the members of the Opposition are, I point out that one of them asked by way of interjection why the Country Party cannot see about producing rain. That gives an idea of how wise the people on the other side of the chamber are. However, the nonsense that they talk now is quite usual. 

 Mr- CORBETT- I disagree with the honourable member for Wilmot. I heard that interjection come from my right. The person who made it is now acknowledging that fact by nodding. So there was no mistake as far as I am concerned. My time is nearly up. AH I want to say in conclusion is that I trust the 'Sunday Mail', which has given large headlines to the rubbishing of towns in Queensland, will give equal prominence to the defence of these towns that I have put up tonight. 
I want to make a few brief comments with regard to the Shepparton Post Office. I have been informed that the Australian Post Office has a category of priorities in relation to the historical value of its buildings. It has taken the trouble to look at the buildings that it has throughout the Commonwealth with the object of giving a higher priority to the buildings which have a particular, special or greater historical significance. So the Post Office has not been neglectful of this angle. I also pay a tribute to the interest taken by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in this matter. He has discussed it with me. 
It is his own prerogative whether he comes before the Committee. I feel that he had such confidence in the Committee that he felt it would lake the right decision, which he has just complimented it on doing. So he has taken a very keen interest in the matter. It would not be possible to retain all the buildings that perhaps even the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  might like to retain. There is a cost involved iri doing this. While I have a great respect and admiration for the historical societies and the work they do - in fact they are operating in my own area - I feel that- some degree of priority has to be given to those buildings we should preserve. I believe also that there has to be some measure by which assistance can be given to those organisations who want to preserve buildings such as the Shepparton post office. But we also have to look at the cost to the community over all. Perhaps some measure, some pattern or some formula could be arrived at whereby people could make application for assistance in the renovation or the preservation of these buildings, provided they themselves are prepared to undertake perhaps the maintenance of them in the future. I am not setting down specific guidelines, but I believe this is something that could be looked into. I repeat that my understanding is that the Post Office has a priority system under which it has placed into various categories the buildings which it thinks should be preserved because of their historical significance. 
I just want to add a few words to this debate with regard to the rebuilding of Kormilda College. As my colleagues on the Public Works Committee have pointed out, this reference aroused a very great deal of interest. The Committee investigated it with as much thoroughness as was possible having regard to the time which was available to it and the amount of work which the Committee has to do. 1 think it is worthy of mention that because some people were not able to give evidence at the initial hearing and because the Committee felt that further evidence might be desirable we considered the matter on a second visit to the Territory so that people would be able to give further evidence. The Committee did request evidence to be given on behalf of some of the churches in particular so that we would have as good a picture as possible of the type of building and the type of education which would be in the best interests of the Aborigines. I believe that the Committee faced up to this aspect. One of the great difficulties that faces Australia today is to provide the best type of education possible for our Aboriginal students. I walked around the College with a number of groups, as did my colleagues. I talked to members of those groups and discovered that they had received a reasonable standard of education. Their education was improving. It was obvious that as a result of the Government's approach to this matter we are providing the younger Aboriginals with a better standard of education and this is gaining a more ready acceptance of Aboriginal parents. However, this is no easy matter. 
The need to promote the best type and standard of education for our Aboriginal children should give us great concern. From what I saw of Kormilda College I believe we are fully justified in reconstructing it. Although this is somewhat outside the Committee's reference, I believe there will be a need to see that those students who are educated at the College are provided with the best type of employment commensurate with their education. They should be encouraged to take employment. This aspect should be followed up. I believe that the education methods being adopted at the college are as good as the Government has been able to devise. The College will play an increasingly important part in educating Aborigines who, in turn, will be able to influence their families and other Aboriginals in the community to recognise the advantage of a better educational standard. 1 have travelled around the Northern Territory with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and have visited some of the settlements and Aboriginal missions. I have seen the great need for this type of education. As the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  pointed out, there are differences of opinion as to how best education can be provided. I commend the honourable member for Northern Territory for the tremendous interest he has shown in this and in many other projects in the Northern Territory. He is always alive to the need for improvements in his electorate. I thank him for giving me the opportunity of seeing at first hand the Aboriginal problem in the Northern Territory in a way that I would not have been able to see it without his assistance and the benefit of his tremendous knowledge. 1 am confident that Kormilda College will play a tremendously important role in the education of Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. I believe that it is necessary to expand the College as much as possible because it is through Aborigines that we will be able to reach those other Aborigines who are not yet convinced of the need for and the benefits of a higher standard of education. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

<graphic href="080131197209140_69_2.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">In addition Senators and Members receive: Free air travel on Parliamentary business plus one trip to a Territory each year, also one trip to New Zealand each Parliament ; and the services of a Secretary-Typist. Living-away-from-home allowance and travelling allowance to or from Canberra for Parliamentary sittings, party meetings and Parliamentary and party committee meetings, $22 per day (not paid to Ministers and Presiding Officers). 
<para pgwide="yes">Ministers and Presiding Officers' Travelling Allowance- Prime Minister, 842 per day; Senior Ministers, 836 per day; Presiding Officers and Ministers, $33 per day when away from home and when travelling to or from Canberra on official business, but excluding whole days spent in Canberra. Leader and Deputy Leader of Opposition (Representatives) $36 per day and $28 per day respectively. 
<para pgwide="yes">Member's wife - free air travel from home to Canberra four times per year OR free travel home to Canberra twice per year and free travel interstate on one occasion per year. 
I would like to refer to some aspects of civil aviation which have not been referred to very much in the course of this debate. The problem in my electorate is not one of noise; it is one of lack of noise, lack of aircraft and lack of services. 
It is a very important one but I would not expect the Australian Labor Party to have any interest in airports other than those in the capital cities. 
If the honourable member does not know where the airport is, his knowledge of geography is lacking quite a deal and is confined to the capital cities. 
Anything is mixed up as soon as it goes outside the capital cities, apparently. 
You might, and you might not. I would sooner chance getting it from this Government and from the government which will be elected at the next election, which will be the same Government. The value of air services into the country is very real. Air services are an essential part of communications in those areas. We have had a reduction in the size of the aircraft that are operating on some of these airlines. Today we find that TAA is flying a number of Twin Otter aircraft into the western areas of Queensland. They are a very reliable and safe aircraft but they do not carry a great deal of freight or a large number of passengers. I feel that the seating in this type of plane could be improved and made more comfortable. Perhaps a seat or two would have to be sacrificed to do that. At present, especially on a long journey, these aircraft lack the comfort that is expected from air travel today. I hope that that matter will be looked into. 
In view of the fact that these aircraft do not provide the services that are provided on the major airlines, some consideration should be given to what might be termed economy fares for economy class travel because economy travel in the larger aeroplanes is very much better than travel in a Twin Otter. I realise that one of the problems in this regard is that the airlines have to be economic within reasonable limits. At the same time I think that there should be a division of the needs of these airlines in the way of comfort, without sacrificing too much in the way of income from them. These planes provide a fast service and, naturally, the provision of newspapers from the capital cities to the outback areas is a very important part of their operation. A number of weekend flights from Brisbane carry the newspapers to Quilpie which is the end of the run. But apparently because of the amount of traffic they are handling, maybe to the first port of call - I would imagine that that run would carry the heaviest amount of traffic - -they have not been able even to keep the papers going. That would indicate to me that at least they are handling a fair amount of freight or freight and passengers combined. 
I have been advised that, for 4 weeks running, the newspapers did not get out to Quilpie. There was no reduction in the air freight charges because they arrived eventually. In one instance the newspapers for the 13th August did not arrive there until the 18th and there was no refund of air freight. While I make these comments I realise that it is necessary also to try to find some ways of overcoming the problem. I would like to see some consultation perhaps between TAA and the newspaper publishers to see whether the newspapers could not be sent by road or by some even earlier departure, to the first port of call for these aeroplanes and then, because some passengers leave the plane and some freight is unloaded, the newspapers could be taken on there. That would be beneficial to the airlines and certainly to the people in western Queensland who, for whatever reason, might want to receive their newspapers. Some of them are interested in racing. They have a branch of the Totalisator Agency Board there and they like to receive their newspapers to look at the form of the horses. Especially when Tails was doing such good work they were particularly pleased to be able to receive the latest information in that regard. It is a way of life there and many people find that this is one of the relaxations they have. 
In any case, for whatever reason they might want the newspapers, I think they are entitled to receive their weekend newspapers when an air service operates into that area. I think that some way should be found to overcome this problem. So I put it to TAA and to the newspaper publishers to see whether some results cannot be achieved by way of consultation to get a combination of road and air freight. I emphasise the point that, if the airlines cannot carry these newspapers, it looks as though there must be a fair amount of traffic at least to the first port of call. 
Before concluding my remarks I would like to comment on the Brisbane Airport. Like most Queenslanders, I had a feeling that we were a little behind the cities in the south, and I think it is time that we had an airport and airport facilities which would stand comparison with those to be found in the other capital cities throughout Australia. I realise that work has been done on a new airport for Brisbane, and I understand that a proposition has been accepted. I believe that the area where this airport is to go is a good one. It is situated where the noise problem will be minimal, considering that it will be so close to the city itself. When we look at the map of Australia - our southern friends often forget this - we see that Brisbane is about only half way up the east coast of the continent. I think it is time we had an airport of international standard at Brisbane. I appreciate the work that has been done on this. 
I am glad to hear my fellow western Queenslander say, 'Hear, hear'. This indicates that this is not a parochial matter and that it is not just Brisbane people who want an airport of international standard. It is a matter of national development. I believe, and I think that most Queenslanders feel, that we have been left a while without getting facilities to which 1 believe Brisbane is entitled, with its geographical position on the Australian coast and in the very fast developing state of Queensland. Under a government led by the only Country Party Premier in Australia, the progress and development that Queensland is making is such that it really deserves now to have an airport that is in keeping with that progress and development. I will be looking forward to seeing -that airport in the not too distant future. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
As a member of the Public Works Committee 1 want to be associated with this project and with its acceptance by the Parliament. I commend the other speakers on putting most of the facts before the Parliament and I do not intend to reiterate them. The Committee worked sincerely to try to find the best solution to this problem. Tt travelled to Darwin  3  times in an endeavour to see that no mistakes were made. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  pointed out that, whilst he still feels that possibly the first proposal would have been satisfactory, there was some doubt in the minds of members of the Committee as to whether there would be some pollution of the harbour. It was because of the desire to be absolutely certain that the beautiful harbour would not be adversely affected that the Committee took further evidence, made further investigations and took every possible measure to see that there was no doubt that that harbour, which is the pride of the Darwin people and which is indeed a wonderful harbour, would not be subject to pollution. There was some doubt in my mind and in the minds of many others that the currents there would necessarily take the sewage out of the harbour to the extent that would be desirable to prevent the pollution occurring. I support very warmly the acceptance of this motion by the Parliament. 
I urge the media and all organisations and people in that area who are public spirited citizens to do their utmost to give the greatest possible publicity to the visits of the Public Works Committee to Darwin and the Northern Territory. Despite the best efforts of a dedicated secretary and the desire of the Committee, on occasions people have advised the Committee later that they did not know of a visit and that they wanted to give evidence. The Committee is most anxious to hear the evidence of everyone who is desirous of giving evi dence before the Committee. So I hope that the people of Darwin, having received these benefits and other benefits through the activities of the Department of Works and the recommendations of the Public Works Committee, will play their part - I refer to the media in particular - in seeing that the dates of the hearings are made known and that they convey to the individuals and organisations that they have a right to give evidence before the Committee, so that we will not have a repetition of what has happened in the past, namely, people coming late with evidence. I commend the project. I am very happy to see that there is no chance, under these conditions, of any pollution of this wonderful harbour occurring. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! There is no point of order. 
If the homes savings grant scheme has been introduced as an incentive to young people of 23, 33 or 26 years of age to save, why should those couples who marry beyond 36 years of age and their children be disadvantaged, or more appropriately, considering the reason for the introduction of the Bill, why should the same incentive to save and to build or purchase their own home not apply to the over 36 age group. 
It is a valid complaint and I hope that the Minister for Housing will do his level best to ensure that this is changed. 
Another benefit of the homes savings grants scheme to the nation has been the savings that it has produced. If we multiply the amount that has been paid in grants - approximately $110m to date - by 3, which is the ratio of savings to Government contribution, we see that well over $3 00m has in the past been banked or held in credit unions or other such bodies. This money in itself has made a contribution in allowing more lending to take place than would otherwise have been possible. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  mentioned that the economists should look at the effects that the introduction of this legislation has had on the nation and this is one of those areas where I believe that there has been an effect. A pool of money has been maintained. 
If we are now paying out at the rate of about $20m a year and this figure has recently increased from $15m or $17m it shows that this is a growing figure. Therefore, it is safe to predict that at all times there will be $150m in savings deposits banked for the purpose of qualifying people for the homes savings grant. Yet that great intellectual, the shadow Minister for Housing, suggested in articles which appeared in 2 Sydney newspapers in April and May that this whole business is simply a bribe. I would suggest that it is not a bribe. There is a lot more to this legislation than that and as far as I am concerned, while Opposition members can correctly point to the inflationary trends or to the higher cost of housing since the legislation was originally enacted, it is only fair to say that the costs of labour and materials have also increased greatly in that time. 
If both sides of the House were to recognise this and to work together to ensure that, while people received a fair reward for their efforts, we do not encourage reckless spiralling of the wage and cost structure, the effort of every young Australian aspiring to acquire his or her own home would be made so much easier. We cannot stand in this chamber speaking on one Bill and follow a certain line and then follow  a  different line when speaking to another Bill. 
The nation needs consistency and if the shadow Minister for Housing hopes to become more than a shadow Minister, consistency is something with which he will have to come to grips. 
The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  suggested that we in the Country Party should support the protection of Australian industries. I think he would agree that we have always done that. I think we have been very consistent in our approach. However, there is one angle that we have to look at in representing areas which have to pay a share of the cost of tariff protection. All we have ever asked is that those industries which are granted tariff protection be efficient in their operations. I welcome the review of tariffs which is being undertaken at the present time by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  with that object in view. So often the most effective policy is the one which is down the middle and this is the way I think it should be. So I assure the honourable member for Sydney that members of the Country Party agree with adequate protection for the industries he was talking about. 
Tonight I want particularly to refer to finance for rural industries. We have heard a lot about the proposals that are to come forward. We know that $20m was allocated for this purpose in the Budget, but we have not heard yet just how that money is to be applied. I hope that information will be available to us in the very near future. It is vitally important for the progress and development of the inland areas of this country that more finance be available to our primary producers. It will be particularly advantageous now that the earning capacity in the wool industry has been increased so greatly because the wool growers will be able to service debts that they would not have been able to service prior to the rise in wool prices. While I am on that matter, I think it is worth reminding the Parliament that the recovery in wool prices was expedited very greatly through the policy of the Government in establishing the Australian Wool Commission and putting into the industry the confidence which was so sorely needed and which did not appear to be reviving without the support that the Australian Wool Commission was able to give it. When the Wool Commission had on hand well nigh one million bales of wool many people were wringing their hands and were in great fear that perhaps the Government had overstepped the mark. But the results have since proved that this courageous and definite action was what saved the wool industry. Although we have been fortunate in having, in conjunction with a recovery in prices, a greater demand for wool today, how long would that position have been in arriving if it had not been for the confidence given to the buyers of wool by the Australian Wool Commission's determination to see that the price of wool would not fall below the minimum price that was established. 
The honourable member can have a go later on. What he has to say will not be worth much. The last $30m that was provided for the Australian Wool Commission was not used. That indicates that there was a battle between the wool industry generally and the Australian Wool Commission to see whether the Australian Wool Commission had the capacity really to put the floor under the wool price. 
The benefit of long term loans is very great. There  aTe  fluctuations, and always will be, in primary industry. The benefit of long term loans is two-fold. First of all they ensure the lowest possible repayment rate. One does not have to have a very great knowledge of arithmetic to know that for every $1,000 of a loan at 6 per cent over even 10 years, which is regarded perhaps as a long term in ordinary commercial operations, the annual repayment would be $160. If repayments were extended over 30 years they would be only $94 at the same rate of interest and the cost to the borrower would be reduced very substantially - almost halved. I also make a point that has perhaps been overlooked or sometimes not accepted. It relates to the value of keeping our interest rate as low as is compatible with the operations of the proposed rural bank. 
I would be failing in my duty if I did not inform this Parliament that very many people throughout a hard pressed area of this country are requesting that this interest rate be examined with the object of keeping it low. At a recent largely attended meeting in one of the most hard pressed western areas, this point was raised with me. So, while I know that we cannot have ridiculously low rates of interest, every per cent of interest that can be reduced will assist with long terms to enable the annual repayments to come within the capacity of an industry that has had great difficulty but which, I believe, is now seeing the turn around and which will recover. With this industry will recover the western towns. Unfortunately, some newspaper journalists and, indeed, many others regard these towns as having reached the limit of their growth and maintain that they will not be required. They have been written off. Recently, a lecturer at the Queensland University suggested that these towns should be abandoned for perhaps 20 years. What an absurd position to take. How long ago was it that we were being told that the wool industry had no chance of recovery? Now we hear these comments being made at a time when the western towns which service this great primary industry need encouragement. They are being given a rubbishing, which I deplore. 
In the few minutes remaining to me, 1 want to refer to the problems of the wheat industry. I am pleased to note that the world price for wheat is recovering; it is increasing. Against that background, consideration should be given to increasing the amount of wheat that is encompassed by the guaranteed price. Wheat growers and primary producers generally cannot continue on the basis of receiving similar returns for their crops while costs continue to rise, while profits in other areas are increasing and while wages and salaries are increasing. It is not reasonable to expect that gross returns to primary producers should remain static and I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government will give consideration to examining the position of the wheat growers to ensure that they too receive their share of the prosperity of this country and that they are contributing generally to the welfare of the community. As I said, they just cannot be expected to carry on, in spite of rising costs, while receiving the same return that they have received over the years. 
I believe that now is a good time - the lift in wheat prices will cushion the cost to the community - to enable these people to receive a reasonable return for their investment and labour. It is particularly important that this position should be examined be cause of the very serious drought conditions that are being experienced over a large portion of the wheat growing areas of the Commonwealth. I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry will take into consideration the points that I have made. The only other point 1 would like to make, because I represent the major fruit growing area of Queensland, is that in the consideration of tariffs, the position with regard to fruit cartons, which involve a high cost to the fruit industry, will be given full consideration. 
My . question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He will no doubt be aware of the severe difficulties being caused through drought in southwest Queensland and northwest New South Wales, Can the Prime Minister indicate whether any form of Commonwealth drought assistance might be made available to alleviate the problems in these areas? Finally, has the Prime Minister received from the Premiers of either Queensland or New South Wales a request for such assistance? 
We have just listened to an address by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  the shadow Treasurer.  His  arguments boil down to the fact that the Australian Labor Party would have set up a committee some 21 years ago to inquire into this matter. The Labor Party moved an amendment to that effect and it was defeated, as it probably expected it would be, because that is the way things normally operate in this House. I do not know that the Opposition has been very active in trying to introduce any amendments since that time. I would have thought that if it was really sincere in its approach it might have made greater efforts between the time to which the honourable member referred and today. However, the position is that the Estate Duty Assessment Bill 1972 provides very much needed assistance and - this was not emphasised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports - it provides this assistance in the area of greatest need. I would go along with any suggestion that greater assistance in this field should be given. The policy of my Party is that we should move for the gradual reduction of these death duties and then for their abolition. 
Of course, we realise that this is not only a Commonwealth matter. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports pointed out, the imposition of death duties applies both to the Commonwealth and the States. Perhaps what the honourable member did not say was that the amount taken by the States ls substantially greater than that which is collected by the Commonwealth. If we are to look at this whole subject there is a need to examine the situation in relation to both the Commonwealth and the States. It is interesting to note that following the reduction in death duties imposed on primary production estates back in 1969, Queensland, the only State with a Country Party Premier, followed with a reduction in duties along similar lines to that which applied in the Federal sphere. The difference was that the Federal reductions applied to estates which had a 50 per cent or more rural content or rural income up to $140,000, and this gradually phased out until it got back to the original rate of some $250,000. In the States, however- I speak from memory here - the phasing out started at SI 20,000. So the reduction applied to estates with a rural income up to $120,000. 
At that time we did see the Commonwealth example being followed by the Queensland Government, and I just wonder how many other State governments, whether they are Labor governments or otherwise have done anything of that nature. I feel that if full advantage is to be taken of this action being initiated by the Commonwealth it will have to be followed by all of the States if we continue to retain this dual assessment of death duties. I for one hope that the State governments take note of the fine lead being given to them by the Commonwealth Government and I hope they act accordingly as did the Queensland Government following the breakthrough, as I call it, in 1969 when this Government and this Parliament recognised the very great burden that death duties were imposing upon a particular section of the community - the people with assets connected with primary production. 
There is a very great difference in the burden of death duties under particular circumstances. If a person's assets are composed only of a viable, and sometimes barely viable, estate which is used for primary production then the liability for death duties makes that estate not viable. As an interjector said - I think it was the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  - in some instances it forces people into bankruptcy. Of course, this should not be tolerated. So there is a very big difference in the burden of death duties as they apply to these people compared with a person who owns an estate of similar value comprised, say, of stocks and shares or of parcels of real estate in cities. In the latter case a portion of the assets can be sold to meet death duty charges without adversely affecting the income earning capacity of the remainder of the estate. 
It is against that background and in those circumstances that I submit full consideration should be given to the remedial action which can be taken to ease the burden of death duty. At the same time I believe it is necessary that the burden of death duty should be relieved right across the board. To illustrate my point, I instance the case of an owner of a property engaged in primary production who may get the legal advice which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports suggested could be made available. I agree with him. lt may be that a prudent person is tempted to sell his property to a son with the object of reducing the estate by the application of the benefits of gift duty. If he does this, the estate is not then an estate which qualifies under the conditions which apply to primary production estates and it becomes, therefore, a debt which is owed by the son to the father. I do not think it is a good thing to discourage the sale of a property to a son. I believe it is proper that a property should be handed over in this way with the object of retaining experienced people in the field of primary production in which . there is a tendency, brought about by fluctuating markets and seasonal conditions, for people to abandon this type of occupation. We must look at every aspect of death duties in an endeavour to assist people engaged in primary production to obtain from their capital investment something similar to what they can obtain from capital investment in other industries. There is a need for this to be looked at very closely. 
I commend the Government very warmly on the proposed benefits. I draw attention to the way in which this Bill has been designed to give the greatest benefits to those who I feel are in the greatest need although I do not say that I am opposed to giving greater benefits to all. One point which has to be looked at very closely relates to estates going wholly to the spouse, children or grandchildren of the deceased. This is a very important aspect because on many occasions families engaged in primary production have managed, over a great number of years, to make their farms viable. Possibly they could have gone into something else which would have been of greater benefit to themselves but due to loyalty to their parents they have continued in primary production and have run into very heavy costs. For an estate which passes to the spouse, children or grandchildren of the deceased, provided it is a wholly rural property, the exemption is now lifted to $48,000. I hope that the limit will be increased. This provision will also provide a benefit to other than primary production estates with the general exemption becoming $40,000, but in my opinion the margin is not great enough and I feel that it could be expanded. Nevertheless, I welcome the exemption to estates other than primary production estates because I believe that this is a desirable step. The inflationary trend has made the burden of death duties very much greater. 
It is worthy of note that in the case of estates other than primary production estates passing to other beneficiaries the exemption cuts out at $20,000. The families of deceased owners will receive greater benefits to which I feel they are entitled. I hope that this aspect of the Government's policy will be extended. I cannot accept that a family with a primary production estate, even though it is carrying a burden of debt, can be reasonably viable one day and virtually insolvent the next day as a result of the imposition of death duties. This is something which will have to be looked at closely. I think the Government is to be commended very warmly for taking this step forward but it should not stop there. This should be examined more carefully to ascertain whether greater benefits can be given particularly to those families in the categories to which I have referred, that is, immediate relatives and those who qualify under the classification of spouse, children or grandchildren of the deceased. I think that is where the first and most important need applies. The benefit to be obtained by them is very substantial. 
On the basis of existing legislation it is estimated that the collections of estate duty will increase by approximately $2,750,000 to S70m following a decrease of $2,867,000 in 1971-72. The changes in the relevant provisions as announced in the Budget Speech are estimated to cost revenue in 1972-73 some S3m, reducing collections to $67m. The granting of increased benefits has cost the Government this year about S3m and, of course, it will be greater in a. full year. I think from memory it is about $19m. The cost to revenue of the estate duty proposal which will apply to estates of persons whose death occurs after 16th August, is S19m in a full year. The benefits that will be obtained will cost only fi 9m but it will relieve a large number of people of part of the burden of death duties. 
A considerable number of people will benefit from the provisions in this legislation. The shading-in provisions will have the effect of reducing duty payable on estates with a value up to 5 times the exemption limit. Only 5 per cent of estates which would be dutiable under present law will not experience some reduction in duty. An expenditure of $19m annually will give benefits which will be spread over a fairly wide field. I emphasise again that the greatest benefit will go to those people who need it most. It is this aspect which I want to emphasise so strongly. If we increase benefits I hope that they will continue to be channelled into the hands of the immediate family of the deceased. Should the Government decide to phase out duties in other areas, then this should come about as a follow-up to the giving of greater benefits to the wives, children and grandchildren of the deceased. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports raised several matters and referred to a lot of figures. The number of estates of which would be dutiable will be halved. The Government has given very serious consideration to this matter of estate duty. It has come down with a decision, without the benefit of recommendations by a committee, which is a very practical one and which will give at fairly low cost to the community very real benefits to a needy section in the community. From previous experience I am inclined to think that committees often get bogged down and get into all sorts of problems. They have difficulty in arriving at a conclusion. I give credit to this Government for going ahead without the Committee and bringing down a Bill which gives very great benefit to that most deserving section of the community within this field of taxation. I emphasise again that it will be necessary for the State again to follow the lead, as Queensland did, if we are to get this real benefit if, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, the Commonwealth were to collect that amount of money and distribute it to the States, certainly the States other than Queensland, which do not have perhaps quite as understanding a government, would have the benefits which the Queensland Government extended to its people. That may be the most effective way of dealing with this matter. 
I conclude on this note: The benefits that have been given under this Bill stand very clearly as a very fine example of the recognition by the Commonwealth of the need for action. I do not take it that this is the ultimate in this field. I believe that we can look at it again. With the application of a similar amount of money we can do a tremendous amount to assist people who need most to get this benefit. It is not only a benefit to them individually. It is also a tremendous benefit in the continued operation of industry - primary industry in particular - by people who are experienced in that field and who are prepared to suffer tha very great difficulties, the uncertainties of world markets and the uncertainties of seasonal conditions. We have to give them the opportunity to build up reserves which are very necessary if we are to maintain some sort of viability across the board in the field of primary production. So I go along with the idea that this Bill will do a tremendous amount of good. I hope it will be followed in the future by even further benefits in the field of death duties. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In rising to support the estimates for the Department of Education and Science  1  want to say that I strongly support the Government's policy on education generally. In particular, I hope that it will continue to provide assistance to enable the dual system of education to continue to function. I am very much afraid that if this Government were to be voted out of office we would see the end of the dual system of education. 
The honourable member for Sturt always talks rubbish; so he would be an expert in that field if in no other. The point at issue is whether the dual system of education will be maintained. I believe that the only way in which it will be maintained is by the return of the present Government to office at the forthcoming general election. The per capita payments which are made and which have been criticised very strongly by the Opposition enable independent schools to continue at a time when 1 am sure they would not otherwise be able to carry on. The idea of trying to apply a means test to them is an impractical one and one to which I believe the independent schools themselves would be very much opposed. 
In the short time that is available to me I want to talk to some extent on the subject of scholarships. I believe that the Commonwealth Government has made a very big step forward in this field. Commonwealth scholarships have provided assistance to certain students who would not otherwise have been able to take full advantage of their natural abilities. Some students have natural abilities which are worthy of being further advanced but which can be advanced only by the receipt of a scholarship. The scholarships system enables those students to take advantage of their natural abilities. 1 wish to refer firstly to the Commonwealth technical scholarships scheme, which provides for a maintenance allowance and other allowances as well as tuition fees and examination costs. There are to be 2,500 new awards each year for students entering approved courses at technical colleges and other institutions. The benefits are not to be subject to a means test. We on this side of the chamber do not believe in th: application of a means test because we feel that it is desirable that scholarships should go to those students who are best suited to a particular calling and want to pursue it. If the scholarship scheme encourages some who might otherwise not undertake this type of life it is well worth while. The benefits, which are not subject to a means test, are, in the case of full time students, worth an amount of $200 per annum for maintenance, $50 per annum for books and equipment and up to $150 per annum for tuition and other fees. Without this there could be a tendency for people nor to go on with this type of training. For parttime scholars the benefits are an allowance of $100 per annum and reimbursement of compulsory fees up to $100 per annum. The numbers in training are expected to rise from 4,348 in 1971 and 4,465 in 1972 to an estimated 4,640 in 1973. But the overall cost of the scheme is not expected to rise because a great proportion of the scholars is expected to study part time. Therefore, those scholars will receive a smaller amount in benefits per annum. 
Another scheme on which I want to commend the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government is the new one which will be introduced at the beginning of 1973 to replace the Commonwealth secondary scholarships scheme. A total of 25,000 new awards will be available each year for students entering the final 2 years of secondary schooling. Once again we have an example of the. desire on the part of the Commonwealth Government to encourage those people who are capable of this type of training to accept this way of life. The benefits consist of a maintenance allowance up to a maximum of $400 a year. All scholarship winners will qualify for $150 a year. A further S250 a year will be payable subject to a means test similar to that applying to Commonwealth university and advanced education scholarships. So, although a means test will not apply in all instances, it will apply in this particular case to obtain the maximum advantage available under the Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships scheme. I draw attention to the fact that 25,000 of these awards are to be allocated in the year 1973. That will certainly mean a greater opportunity for those students who are anxious and keen to participate in this scheme to do so. It does provide a wider field. I believe it must be conceded that the lifting of our standard of education is very desirable. This is one means by which the Government has decided it can effectively do so. 
In my State of Queensland there are quite a number of Aboriginal people, particularly in the western part of the State. Therefore, I want to refer to the Aboriginal secondary grants scheme. I believe that the real way to tackle the problem of the Aboriginal people of this country is through the education of the Aboriginal people themselves. We will then be in a position where the Aborigines can encourage and set examples for their own people. I have seen this in the time that I have spent in other parts of Australia, including the Northern Territory. I am strongly convinced that the right way to tackle the problem is to set some sort of a standard for these people through their own people and, through their own people, to encourage them to take advantage of the benefits available under the Aboriginal secondary grants scheme. This scheme will assist Aboriginal children between 14 and 21 years of age to complete their secondary schooling. When I was in the Northern Territory recently as a member of the Public Works Committee looking at the rebuilding of the Kormilda College I had the opportunity of discussing with some of the students at that College the advantages they had obtained as a result of being there. I was very impressed by the students who were receiving education at that College. I am sure that this will be a very great advantage. 1 believe that the making of grants for Aboriginal children at secondary schools is a very good step in the right direction and indicates the Government's very keen interest in the need to improve the educational standards of our Aboriginal children. Of course Aboriginal study grants are to be made but I hardly have the time to go through all the aspects that I would like to mention on this occasion because of the time that is allocated to a discussion of these estimates. 
Payments to the States in various categories have been increased very greatly. One thing that caused me a bit of disappointment was that the Budget did not approve funds to assist the Isolated Childrens Parents Association, but as the Minister pointed out, by the Commonwealth Government's action in providing financial assistance for the States to undertake educational work, which has been their special responsibility down through the years, the States should be able to assist people in remote areas. I feel very confident that the States concerned with the problem of educating isolated children will be able to do that. Assistance has been given to the States in a number of ways. The Commonwealth entered the field of education when it commenced giving financial assistance in the field of tertiary education. It followed that up by providing secondary schools with science blocks and libraries. It has assisted teacher training in the many avenues it has entered. I am hoping that as a result of the Commonwealth assistance to the States the States will be in a position to assist the Isolated Children's Parents Association so that parents in isolated areas will be able to provide for their children what is the birthright of every child, a reasonable standard of education. 
The estimates of the Department of Education and Science have covered a very broad field. They have improved the opportunities, particularly for students, to take advantage of the scholarships provided by the Commonwealth. I am sure that in the future the Government will provide even greater opportunities for many more young Australians. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The Leader of the House is right. A third reading speech must relate to the matters contained in the clauses and schedules of the Bill. I have allowed some leniency to the honourable member for Bendigo and I would ask him to keep his remarks related to the clauses of the Bill 
I desire to ask a question supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Deakin, and I address it to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister is no doubt pleased at yesterday's announcement by the Australian Wheat Board of a sale of 1 million tons of wheat to the People's Republic of China. However, does the Minister agree with the media comment today that this sale will prove an embarrassment in view of a likely shortage of wheat in Australia and that the Australian Wheat Board may not be able to fulfil this and other major contracts? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Tonight I wish to bring before the House the difficulty being experienced by primary producers and tractor users generally in obtaining spare parts for machines which are comparatively new or, in any case, recent models. I urge the Government to look into this matter in conjunction with the States which, of course, also have authority to deal with it, with the objective of seeing whether something cannot be done to remedy the situation. My reason for speaking about this matter tonight is to draw attention to it. I believe the situation is such that it needs ventilation. I hope that as a result of the publicity that could be given to it some action might be taken by the companies themselves to see that they are able to service the machines they sell. 
I was encouraged to speak tonight about this matter because I recently received a letter from a constituent of mine who gave me a very good example of this type of problem. I will quote part of that letter but not the names of the companies concerned although if this practice continues I will be tempted to do so. I should like to put the companies on notice that I may not always be so considerate if no improvement is made. I will take up this case with the company concerned. The letter I received states: 
I am taking this opportunity to contact you with the following complaint about the noavailability of spare parts for imported tractors. In March 1971 I purchased a tractor for a price of over $20,000. While the tractor was still under warranty the transmission and gear box completely collapsed. These sections of the tractor were pulled down and the parts required were ordered within a week. It was 10 weeks before the required parts arrived in Australia from overseas and 11 weeks before the tractor was assembled on my property. 
I want to emphasise the price that was paid for the tractor and the fact that it was still under warranty and could not be repaired with parts available in this country. The letter went on: 
During the time that the tractor was out of commission it cost me (684 in tractor hire to enable me to work my ground once when in fact it should have been worked twice. I was advised that parts were not available in Australia' and I would have to wait until they were cast overseas. 
If it was an isolated case one might be prepared to overlook it, but complaints have been made to me over a period and this was such a bad case that I felt compelled to give it some publicity. It would be a very good thing if controls could be enforced requiring companies importing tractors to give an undertaking to keep in stock in this country a reasonable supply of spare parts over a period of time. One does not expect unreasonable consideration or an unreasonable degree of service, but buyers of tractors are entitled to some service. 
It might be claimed that competition should ensure good service and at one time that was so. Reasonable service in the way of parts was readily available. Parts were available on consignment so that agents could keep them in stock. In that way a lot of time was saved. When farm machinery is laid up a lot of time is lost and that is really working time that is lost to the nation. A shortage or lack of availability of spare parts can cause severe financial loss, particularly at sowing or harvesting time. This problem has to be overcome in some way. 
Problems are met with some makes of farm machinery because of the unsatisfactory supply of spare parts. Farm machinery agents should similarly be required to maintain a reasonable supply of spare parts. I realise that people should select only those machines that are backed by a reasonable supply of spare parts in this country but that is not easy to ascertain accurately. A buyer cannot be sure. In some cases agents give a genuine assurance because an undertaking is given by the manufacturer. Perhaps even the manufacturers feel that they will be able to bring the parts into the country and have them available, but the fact is that often they are not there. What do we do about it? 
I have mentioned some of my ideas on this subject. I believe that the Commonwealth and State governments should act in consultation. They might be able to find a way to apply pressure. It is not very easy for an owner to be confident. He may not have an opportunity to see what is available and can act only on the assurances given to him. It would be a rare occasion that a salesman of a machine would say: 'I do not think you will be able to get spare parts for this machine.' The usual assurance is that they are available. I will follow up with the company concerned the case of the tractor I have outlined, with the object of improving the position. I would like to ensure that the users of tractors and general farm machinery are not continually in trouble in obtaining spare parts. I intend to keep in touch with the people who are having such troubles with the object of having them remedied. 
I will ventilate the troubles in this House because I believe the stage has been reached where something has to be done. It is not easy to achieve the objective I seek, except perhaps through giving publicity to it, by giving an indication to the companies that are not able to supply spare parts for tractors and machinery that they should not be careless or indifferent as to the type of service that they can provide. I repeat that if a person invests $20,000 in a tractor which breaks down during a period of warranty, forcing the purchaser to wait no less than 11 weeks before it can be put into operation again - well, that is just not good enough. I hope that this line of action which I have taken will be followed by others. I hope that representatives in State governments from similar areas will take this approach with the object of obtaining benefit and remedying something which is certainly in need of remedy. This is something which is not easy to do perhaps except by this type of action which I have taken. I repeat that if I find cases which need this type of ventilation I will be prepared to name the companies. I would do that reluctantly but I put these companies on notice that I will name them if my constituents and the farmers generally throughout this country are unable to get the type of service which I feel they are justly entitled to expect. 
Is the Minister for National Development aware of a shortage of motor spirit in southern Queensland? As such a shortage not only could cause disruption in general traffic but also could seriously delay the harvesting of wheat which has just begun, will the Minister take every practicable measure available to him to alleviate the position as soon as possible as these wheat areas are subject to serious storm and hail damage at this time of the year? Finally, can the Minister advise the present position with regard to motor spirit supplies in Queensland, particularly in the Darling Downs and Maranoa areas? 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Labour and National Service first of all I would like to commend the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government on their desire to see that the arbitration system in this country operates in the best interests of the employee and the employer as well as in the best interests of the community as a whole. Despite this very sincere desire and the provisions that have been made for the settlement of disputes and the hearing of claims of unions, we find only too often that unions take matters into their own hands and hold this country to ransom. Undoubtedly this is often the result of the activities of left wing socialists and communist union leaders who have little regard for the welfare of the people they represent or the community as a whole. 
The damage that could be caused to :he people's welfare was demonstrated very strongly in the recent petrol strike. In the settlement of that strike it is well to recall, I believe, that it was only the willingness of the Government to do everything possible to resolve the dispute that finally brought results. The Government, or at least some Ministers, came under criticism from members of the public for being prepared to make sacrifices and travel long distances at short notice to enable discussions to be held. But this action brought the dispute to an end and enabled the wheels of industry to turn again, and it prevented even greater hardships being experienced by wage earners and many others whose interests honourable members opposite often claim to represent. But the attitude of honourable members opposite to industrial disputes so often results in financial loss to the wage earning section of the community as well as to the people as a whole including, of course, businessmen and all residents of country towns. These disputes add considerably to the cost of living generally and the burden of these costs falls very heavily on the people who have no opportunity of passing on these costs. Whatever else may be said about the Labor Party, there is no doubt that it is firmly in the grip of the trade unions and in the grip of the leader of those trade unions in the person of  Mr Hawke. 
That is a matter of opinion, but the honourable member's opinion is not always as wise as he would like us to believe. I am happy to remind the people of Maranoa and the people of Australia generally that the trade unions and their leader will have the power to dictate policy to any Labor government, and the honourable member who interjected will find this position to his cost if ever he sits on the side of a Labor government. He is one of the responsible men on the other side of the chamber, despite his interjection. 
My friend the honourable member for Cowper said that ite will not get the chance, and I do not doubt that the honourable member for Cowper is right in saying that. I would like to remind people in rural industry also that they will have to carry the very great burden of a 35-hour week. Despite what was said by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who tried by a series of figures to reduce the cost of a 35-hour week, I think the Australian people generally are well aware that the cost will he much heavier than that which was described this afternoon, lt will be  a  *cry heavy cost and the burden of that cost will rest most heavily on those people who have no opportunity of passing costs on. I refer to people in export industries who are dependent on the prices they receive overseas for their products. This in turn will affect the country businessman who is dependent for his living upon the prosperity of rural industry. It will affect also the people in country towns whose jobs are dependent upon the prosperity of business in those towns. So the rural community in general will have to bear this heavy cost, and therefore it is those people who are most concerned about it. 
It is easy for someone to talk from the point of view of a metropolitan area where costs can be passed on and say that the cost will not be as heavy as is sometimes suggested. I say, too, that it is absurd for Labor spokesmen to say that, if a Labor government came to office, the 35-hour week will apply only to particular industries. How would a Labor government cope with the demand for the flow on of the advantage of a 35-hour week? It would not be in the race to control the trade unions. Undoubtedly very shortly after the advent of a Labor government the 35-hour week would apply across the board. I challenge honourable members opposite to prove that it will not apply across the board. I do not agree with this idea that it can apply to a particular industry and not flow on to other industries when we look at the record of what union leaders have done to try to get a flow on throughout the whole of their unions of any advantages that may be obtained. It is just absurd to say that the unions will not put up a fight. It is just as absurd to say that a Labor government would not cave in to those demands. 
How the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  to name but two, can delude themselves into thinking, if in fact they have done, that under a Labor government the 35-hour week will not apply to rural industry is beyond my comprehension, because they know the past history of what has happened in all of these fields that I have mentioned. 
If the honourable member does not know, I think as a member of this Parliament it is lime that he learnt. 
The honourable member ought to know. I do not have the time to try to educate him. It would be a hopeless task, anyway. The adverse effect of unions getting control was amply demonstrated in the recent petrol strike. The flow on from that strike is the very grave shortage of petrol in Queensland at the present time. The position was aggravated in the first place by the break-down at the Ampol refinery following that strike, and it was aggravated further by the strike which has caused a shut down of the refinery and the delay which must inevitably occur before full production can again be reached. Here again we find this problem of industrial disputes causing great hardship, because in that area the wheat harvest, which is very necessary to the welfare of the people in the wheat industry, is just commencing. The people in the industry have had a gruelling time in that they have had very unfavourable seasonal conditions during the last few years. The towns in these districts are dependent upon the harvest, and all of the people in these towns are involved. This strike certainly threatens very seriously the prosperity of those people. 
The tragedy of it is that with our arbitration system so much of this industrial strife and the stoppages which occur are unnecessary. An honourable member has interjected. I do not know what the interjection was. It was probably no better than the type of interjection we have heard already. If it was not, it is not worth anything. So the position is that this strike was completely unnecessary. So often people go out on strike, they come back after it has been settled, and what happens? The very people who have taken part in that strike are the people who are financially disadvantaged by it. It is not the union leaders who have organised it, it is not the members of Parliament who have encouraged this sort of thing, as they sometimes do, but the workers themselves who have been engaged in the strike who are disadvantaged. We have an arbitration system which, if utilised fully and effectively, can settle industrial disputes without placing added burdens on the wage earners and the community as a whole. I believe that it is in the interests of all Australians that the arbitration system should be as independent as possible, but I feel also that some guidelines should be provided for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
I am very strongly of the opinion that wage and salary increases should bear a relation to the increase in productivity, and the Commission should have to take into consideration the effects of any decision it makes on the economy as a whole and not simply on the industry concerned. I deplore the move to replace the arbitration system with a system of collective bargaining. I do so because I believe that it will lead to industrial chaos. It is essential to maintain the arbitration system. Of course, it is quite in order that we should look at the arbitration system from every angle with the object of improving it. There is no suggestion that it is absolutely the last word, but it is a system which I believe is envied by many nations. I make the plea for co-operation from all sections of the community in making the arbitration system work in the interests of every Australian. 
(1 1.16)- 1 shall be brief, as I hope any subsequent speaker will be brief. At times in the Northern Territory we hear criticism of the operation of what local residents call the central government. The 3 projects which we are asked to approve tonight, in addition to a number of other projects for the Northern territory, indicate the interest of the Commonwealth Government in the promotion and welfare of that area. I pay a tribute to my colleagues of the Public Works Committee. Unless the Committee believes that projects are justified such projects are not recommended. It is good for Australia that projects of the kind we are considering can be approved and brought to fruition in time to meet the needs of the communities involved. The development of the Northern Territory is of great importance and it is good to note that work is being done on the basis of need. Approval for work is sought only after a careful investigation of projects. Finally I pay  a  tribute to my colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr 
Calder). for his interest in this work. It must be of great satisfaction to him to see the progress and development that is taking place in the area he represents in this Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! I think we have' gone a litttle beyond the making of a personal explanation. We have allowed a break into the debate on the question before the Chair, and I think we should return to it at this stage. 
Order! There is no point of order. 

 Mr Chipp - I claim to have been misrepresented. I said nothing to the honourable member for Sturt about his right to call a quorum. When the honourable gentleman began to act in his customary larrikin fashion by interjecting, I interjected to remind him that this is the national Parliament and not the waterfront. 
The Australian taxpayer in the last few years in some quarters has been accused of sustaining an outdated and outworn industry. This is not true of the wool industry. True during the course of its operations the Australian Wool Commission has borrowed funds to a significant degree from the Commonwealth and commercial sources. It has repaid those funds. It has paid commercial rates of interest on those funds and the report of the Australian Wool Commission demonstrates that it, operating on behalf of the Australian wool growers, was able to net a profit because of the backing given by this Government to its operations; because the Government supported it. Yet the Opposition, and I have already referred to statements by members of the Opposition, refused on a number of occasions to give the Commission the financial support that it needed, that the wool industry needed and that Australia needed to give them all a chance for the future. 
This Bill is a further positive step in a succession of measures we have introduced to ensure that the wool industry will again be able to face the future, to look towards change and to adopt, wherever it is practical and feasible and to its advantage, a method of handling and marketing which will make wool again truly competitive. It is no use our looking at the past and saying that because something has worked in the past it will inevitably do so in the future. We accept the fact that this legislation is endeavouring to facilitate a change. 
Representations have been made to me to change certain words within the legislation and, in particular, to define the 2 words auction' and 'broker'. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  may well have referred to these matters when he spoke earlier in the day. The 2 words auction' and 'broker' are included in their present form; 'auction' because the auction system as it exists is well known. It has been a facility for selling wool and established in its present form for many years. We believe, from advice given through the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and other sources, that there can be beneficial changes to the auction system, but were we to broaden the interpretation of the word I believe the restraints that this Bill will give to the Australian Wool Corporation to apply to the auction system may not be beneficial to other systems. It is, therefore, in my opinion not advisable to include all other forms of selling wool where full access is given to the wool as an auction system. However it is the intention of the Government to ensure that the Australian Wool Corporation will give backing to these other systems where there is full access to the wool. I believe that the Corporation is able to do this and I do not see that its function will be in any way inhibited because of the form of the legislation as it will now be passed. 
The second suggested amendment related to the definition of the word 'broker'. There is a fear in some quarters that 'broker'  refers to only a member of the Australian Council of Wool Selling Brokers. This is not so. Indeed under the present interpretation a number of organisations in Western Australia, including the Economic Wool Producers, and some others in eastern Australia are included for the purpose of the operation of the Australian Wool Commission legislation as brokers. This will continue to be so. A 'broker' does not refer to only a member of the Australian Council of Wool Selling Brokers. For this reason I do not believe there is any need to include a definition of the word 'broker'. It was not in the former Bill; it is not in this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I was encouraged to speak by the concluding comments made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  who said that, the important thing was to define the time within which the Australian Wool Corporation is to make its report. The important thing is to have the right scheme. It is essential that this organisation should have the opportunity to prepare a scheme which will cover all of the requirements that this Bill envisages. This is what the industry wants. This is what the growers want. This is in the best interests of the Australian people including the Australian wool growers. That is the main point I wanted to make. I was intrigued by all the emphasis placed by Opposition members on the time period of 6 months. Obviously they do not give themselves any hope of winning the election; otherwise they would not be worried about this time period of 6 months. That is only logical. They certainly would not be worried about this. 
Another point I should like to make relates to the way in which the Oppostion members have grabbed at the views of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  as representng the views of the Government. On that basis the Opposition members must accept the views of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  with regard to revaluation because he is the Leader of their Party and revaluation will have an effect on the returns to wool growers under any acquisition scheme. Let us just have a few thoughts about that. This Bill contains 92 clauses but the Opposition has moved amendments to only 2 of them despite the fact that the honourable member for Dawson said that this is a matter of importance. What is important is that this new body should have the time and opportunity to give careful study to every aspect of this matter so that when a scheme is produced it will be one which will be able to guide the wool industry on the basis of the prosperity that we all want to see achieved. 
The Government is very concerned about the position of the fruit industry in Australia today and it has demonstrated its concern in no uncertain fashion. The Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have been worried about this problem for some considerable time, but the Government recognises the problems of the industry and, because of that, has introduced a 5-year stabilisation plan to help the industry. It is one thing to have concern for an industry, it is another thing to find a way to revive that industry and bring it back to a reasonable degree of prosperity at a reasonable cost. In a nutshell, that is the problem that faces the Government today. It is the problem with which the fruitgrowers of Australia have had to contend for quite a long time. 
It is a stabilisation plan. 
That is my information. 
You will have the right to speak if you want to dispute it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! Will the honourable member address the Chair? Interjections are out of order. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The plan may be yearly in its concept. If the honourable member for Riverina is correct in his statement that it will not cover a period of more than one year, at least the plan has been brought about to assist the industry. I understood that it was to cover a period of 5 years. Any plan of this kind is difficult to formulate because of the conditions under which the industry has been operating. Not only has it operated under very difficult conditions but also the future problems of the industry are very real. There are a number of reasons for that. Perhaps the most important one is the pending entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. The outlook for the fruit industry is not good and it needs all the assistance that the Government can give it. 
I have been corrected by the honourable member for Riverina who said that this is not a 5-year plan. As he represents a big fruit growing area I naturally expect him to be right. If he is wrong I hope he will apologise to me. After the plan was introduced the industry was again very seriously disadvantaged by a sharp rise in overseas freights which counteracted to a very great extent the benefits of the plan. There is no doubt that freights are of very great concern to the fruit industry. Freight costs in relation to the gross return to the fruit growers are a very big burden. The freights and the cost of cartons or containers for fruit make very heavy inroads into the gross returns that our fruit growers receive. The value and condition of the industry justify the legislation. This is particularly so with regard to Tasmania. We in Queensland have always been prepared to contribute to those primary industries in the other States that are suffering, because we ourselves - the woolgrowing industry in particular - have looked for some assistance over the years and it was needed very much. 
The prosperity of the fruit industry is of vital importance to Tasmania. In the light of the difficult circumstances that have confronted the industry, the Australian Agricultural Council set up a committee that is working urgently on the problems of the industry. In the debate on the Wool Industry Bill I remarked that the important point was that the scheme we have should be the best possible one. I believe that the same thing applies in this case. The idea is that the committee working on the problems of the industry should have sufficient time to face up to the very difficult and complex problems it will have. Time has to be allowed for the great difficulty of providing a future plan of operations for the industry that will help it sufficiently to enable it to carry on satisfactorily. 
That point was made quite clearly in the second reading speech of the Minister when he said: 
The problems of the industry are also under study by the Australian Agricultural Council but, because of the scope and complexity of these problems, it must be some time before specific proposals are available for consideration by governments. 
He went on to say that because of that this Bill was introduced to give the benefits contained in it for the fruit industry. He also said: 
All States have now accepted in principle the Commonwealth offer. Under the scheme the Government will introduce legislation to provide up to $4. 6m to the States for the operation of the treepull scheme. 
This will help to stabilise the industry. This scheme will not be of very great advantage to the area that it is my privilege to represent in the Parliament - the fruit growing area of Stanthorpe and district. I do not expect that the tree-pull scheme will be brought into operation to any very great extent in this area. 
But, to return to the investigation, if it is to be carried out thoroughly it must be time-consuming. Because of that, under this Bill some $400,000 is provided for what might be described as a temporary or interim measure to assist the industry pending decisions being made on what further action may be recommended by the committee conducting that investigation. In representing an apple and pear growing industry which is centred mainly in the Stanthorpe district, which is renowned for the quality of its deciduous fruits, I am naturally very concerned about the future of the fruit growing industry. Whilst the district is only a small portion of the State, it is vitally connected with the future of the fruit growing industry, although there are other industries there. 
One of the problems which confront fruit growers in that area is hail damage. This causes a very heavy loss, so heavy in fact that it has not been possible to introduce an insurance scheme which is economic to the grower and at the same time able to cope with the heavy demands that are made upon it in a season in which a high level, or even perhaps a normal level, of hail falls in the area. Hail damage is one of the great worries of fruit growers in that area. Because of this, the growers are anxious to establish a juice processing plant. 
I should like to point out that quite a lot of fruit which is hail marked, and which therefore is not suitable for the fresh fruit market, is very good quality fruit. It merely has a blemish which precludes it from being sold on that market. So, the growers in my area are anxious to provide some way of utilising the fruit which it is not economic to market as top quality fruit. We are wise to expect growers to keep fruit at this top quality. But, to cater for this hail damaged fruit, it is now proposed to establish a juice processing plant in the area. One of the problems which have confronted the fruit industry everywhere, including in that area, is the availability of markets. 
I agree with the idea that it is desirable for us to look at every possible avenue of marketing and to encourage the promotion of apple juice. I have tasted some of the products from that area. Some of the growers now have a small apple juice plant operating there and the product is of very high quality. But the problem we have to face, of course, in enlarging production is first of all to have a commercial proposition. To make it a commercial proposition we have to find markets. That is one of the problems that exist. While this information might indicate that there will be a small increase in the amount of juice made available, I think that will be able to be offset by an intensive marketing programme. I should like to see that undertaken within Queensland because then it would be able to cope with its own production, and possibly even more, and so help the industry generally. 
I commend those growers who are looking for a way to help themselves. If the proposal which they have put forward is feasible it will help not only them but also the town of Stanthorpe and also promote decentralisation. I believe that if the scheme barely breaks even it will be worth while because of its value in providing an industry for the town. I will be looking forward to seeing whether it can become a commercial proposition. The Queensland State Government has this proposal before it at the moment. I will be meeting the growers in that area on Saturday morning and I hope that by that time we will have the results of the State Government's consideration of their proposal. 
They would have liked to have had some assistance from the Commonwealth Government for the scheme. However, the capital cost is not very great and, if it is a scheme that the Commonwealth Government is not able to come into, then I hope that the State Government will be able to give these people the assistance that they require to get the plan under way. The capital cost of the proposal is moderate and, as 1 said, its ultimate success will depend on markets and naturally on the cost of production. But the proposal certainly warrants careful examination. I would say that the key to it would be the likely results of a marketing promotion programme, which I believe is a very important aspect. 
As I said, 1 doubt that the tree-pull scheme will be used very greatly in my area. Because there will be no burden on Commonwealth finances there under that scheme, people in the area are looking for whatever assistance the Commonwealth Government might be able to give them in some other way. Perhaps the promotion of the sale of apple juice and also canned fruit products, which have been mentioned already, is something to which we should give consideration and something on which the expenditure of some funds could be justified. 
In conclusion all I want to say is that I support the Bill. I believe that the arguments presented by the Minister in his second reading speech set out the case very well. I have dealt with only one aspect in this cognate debate and have not touched on the other. I support this Bill and I say that the fruit growers throughout the Commonwealth need and deserve all the assistance that can be given to them in the extremely difficult conditions that they are now experiencing. 
I also support the Bill. My colleague, the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann),  has covered many of the points that needed to be made and I will not reiterate them. Of course, it is vitally necessary that the matter of costs always be taken into consideration in the production of primary products and this has been one of the great troubles in the industry. There is no doubt, as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said in his second reading speech, that with the inception of the subsidy the case for assistance has rested on lowering ali farm costs, the encouragement of new farming techniques and the fostering of export earnings. This is something we have to keep in mind continually. Another point which was touched on by the right honourable member for Fisher, though perhaps it was nol brought out as clearly as it should have been, is that it is possible to get a commodity which is chemically identical with another but which does not prove as efficient or acceptable to the growers. This is one of the problems with which the industry has been faced. Field tests have shown thai this is so. Therefore it is not good enough that we have only a chemically tested fertiliser because in practice it can be proved that fertilisers with identical chemical content are not as effective as each other. 
I believe it is important that we have a domestic fertiliser industry. In fact it is essential that we have one for a number of reasons, one being that there is always the problem of delays in supply and another is that it is good to have an industry here when we are using fertiliser as widely as we are in Australia. I regret that we have to get an imported product simply because the quality of our locally manufactured product is just not satisfactory to the growers or because, as a matter of economy, it is not possible to use it at all, as has been pointed out in this debate. One of the other points I wish to raise relates to costs. I have had some complaints about a rise in the cost of some nitrogenous fertilisers and the reason I have been given for this rise is that ammonium nitrate is now produced mainly at Newcastle and whereas previously, speaking now in relation to Queensland producers, the freight cost from Brisbane was borne by the company, now freight costs are applied as from the place of manufacture - that is, Newcastle - which has resulted in a rise although the cost of the ammonium nitrate at the factory has not been increased. The very welcome change in the prospects of prices for some of our primary products makes this Bill perhaps even more important than it would otherwise have been insofar as it relates to the value of products. 
There has been a very big increase in the use of nitrogenous fertilisers in wheat growing areas in some of the most fertile lands in Australia because of heavy demands made upon that land by constant cropping. I believe that this demand for nitrogenous fertilisers will increase. Possibly there will be greater areas cropped increasing this need for nitrogenous fertilisers and so it is important that we continue the subsidy. It is of interest that there is some reason to believe that nitrogenous fertilisers increase production not only in a direct way through their application to the soil but also through their destruction of harmful nematodes. Most of the points 1 wanted to raise have been covered. As the right honourable member for Fisher said, this is not a controversial Bill but it is nevertheless a very important one. It gives me great pleasure to support it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Grassby)  adjourned. 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt must seek leave to make a statement. 
The operations of the Postmaster-General's Department, of course, are of tremendous importance to the whole of the Commonwealth and of special importance to the people in outlying areas. I should like to make one or two points in connection with the Postmaster-General's Department estimates. Firstly, I refer to television. The 38 television stations in the last group to be provided and presently being constructed have brought a great deal of satisfaction to those people in the areas where the stations are being provided. Nevertheless, a large area will not be covered because these smaller stations have a small range. One thing that has concerned me in this regard is that I have had it put to me that some of these stations, such as the one at Miles, will beam onto the town from the eastern side of the town. Representations have been made to me by the Murilla Shire Council, of which Miles is the main centre, urging that the station be moved west from Miles to one of the higher points between Toowoomba and the Queensland border from which a much better service would be provided. 
I would like to know whether any station, including the station at Miles, will beam its signal on to the town rather than it being what is called, according to some of the people with whom I have spoken, a multi-beam station. I have made representations to have the Miles station moved. If it can be moved I believe it would give a better service, and if it were moved to what is known locally as J D Ridge it would mean that most of the stations west to Charleville - that is as far west as they can go - would be about 60 miles apart. If these stations had the capacity to beam in all directions  -  I understand there are stations of this kind which have a range of some 30 miles or more; I know the Department is very cautious about giving distances - all of these stations then would actually link up, even though the reception at the extermities of those distances might not be quite as good. However, that is the feeling of the people in the area. I urge the Postmaster-General to examine this matter to see whether a better service can be provided by moving the Miles station west of Miles. If in fact the station at Roma, for example, is a multi beam station, I would like to know whether all of the stations have a similar capacity. If not, could they be provided with a transmitter with the maximum range that can be provided in stations of that type? 
I welcome the effort made by the PostmasterGeneral to have these stations provided. Although he announced this as a 4-year plan, there has been a lot of criticism about the length of time it has taken. The Postmaster-General did not have to make the announcement at that time. He could have delayed the announcement and there would have been a delay between the announcement and the station going into operation. But by making the announcement, procedures can take place which 1 hope will bring these stations into operation according to the timetable that has been allocated for 'them. They will be of very great benefit to the country towns in the vicinity, not only from the point of view of adult entertainment or educational value but also from the point of view of the great advantage they will afford to the school children and the students in the area. I commend the Postmaster-General on undertaking this programme. I only hope that we will see a further stage extending to places like Quilpie which does not already have the advantage of being included in the present stage. I could name a number of other places which are equally deserving of this facility such as Taroom, Wandoan, Surat, Bollon, Thargomindah and many others. 1 want to touch on the subject of telephones. I make a plea to the Government to devote more funds to this section of the Postmaster-General's Department. The waiting period for telephones has created tremendous difficulties, particularly for families living well away from their doctor or any medical attention at all. Telephones would make a tremendous difference to those people from the humanitarian point of view. It is from that angle that I press this matter very strongly. We all know that one cannot run a property effectively with out having telephonic communication. I appeal to the Government to provide more funds to the Postmaster-General's Department to enable this unacceptable delay in telephone installations to be eased. People have had to wait some years already and they are still waiting for telephones. I know that finance does not cure all of this problem, as the Postmaster-General has pointed out to me and many of my constituents who have made application to him time and time again. Nevertheless, there is a need not only for finance but also for technicians. There is a need for electronic equipment and for cables. All of these things are required before the plan can be completed. I know it could be some time before this time lag can be reduced substantially, but I feel that the provision of further funds would help the situation. I have not yet found people in the PostmasterGeneral's Department who have said to me that they did not need more funds or that if they had more funds they could not make use of them. I feel sure that the programme generally would be assisted if further funds were made available for that purpose. 
In common with other speakers I have heard already in the debate tonight, I commend the Postmaster-General, the Government and the Postmaster-General's Department on the excellent policy which has been brought down. It has been of tremendous value to people in rural areas in enabling them to have a telephone perhaps when they could not afford it otherwise. The only fly in *e ointment is the length of time they have to wait. However, the Government has brought down a splendid policy and, although its implementation will be costly, I believe it will pay dividends to the Postmaster-General's Department. When the services are installed to the standard required by the Postmaster-General's Department they will be free of a lot of the problems that have been associated with country telephones in the past. There will not be anything like the present number of calls on the Postmaster-General's Department technicians relative to the number of telephones they are serving. There will be a greater continuity of service and this will bring greater revenue to the Postmaster-General's Department. So while the cost will be very heavy, I believe that there will be benefit to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I believe that eventually  the  policy will prove economically sound as well as providing a standard of service that we want to see provided in those areas. 
The only other matter I wish to mention is a matter which I have spoken about constantly, and that is the need for individuals to have local call access to the main business centre. As the Postmaster-General pointed out to me in a letter dated 16th October, to enable all subscribers to have local call access to their nearest main centre would mean extending this concession over distances in excess of 100 miles. Perhaps we will not be able to provide this facility for everyone but I believe it can be provided for more people than at the present time. I do not accept the proposition that telephone zones should be similar in size wherever they may be. I believe that zone sizes could be expanded in western areas. I do not accept that the cost of providing this facility would be excessive because, while the capital outlay would be fairly high, once the equipment was installed, the upkeep would not be very costly. I hope that the Postmaster-General will have a look at my suggestion of expanding the zones in the outlying areas with the object of serving more people with this local call access to their nearest main town than are served at the present time. This is a service for which people are looking. I have not pressed for anything more strongly. I believe there is a good deal of justice in the argument, so I hope that in the course of time this request will be granted and that as many people as is reasonably economically possible - I am sure the service could be improved - will be able to have local call access to their main business centre. 
by leaveAs the representative of the Australian Country Party on the Public Works Committee, I support the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is the  Chairman  of the Committee and the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  who is the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee. I add my own appreciation of the co-operation that has been given by all members of the Committee in the work that we have had to do over the years. I do not want to repeat what has already been said. It has been a very strennuous year and the results have been achieved only with the close co-operation and tradition that have been built up over the years. The Committee has tried to play the role designed for it in the democratic process by allowing each side to express a view about public works to be undertaken by the Commonwealth Government. 
Members of the Committee have been anxious to see that that part has been correctly played, even though at times the notice given has not been as long as we would have liked. I think we need to examine carefully the methods by which notification is given of our activities. Notification should be for as long a period as is reasonably practicable. It is not always easy to accomplish that end. My work on the Committee has been made much more pleasant and I believe much more effective, by the co-operation that has come from members of the Committee drawn from both sides of the House. It has been a pleasure to work with them. I also compliment the  Chairman  on his handling of the work. In recent times he has had a very difficult task. I thank the Secretary and staff for their dedicated work in enabling us to get through the number of references we have had to deal with this year. 
Probably the most enlightening feature of this debate on a matter of public importance has been the complete lack of any statement on the policy objectives or aims of the Australian Labor Party. This has been evident before. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  did mention something about policy but he went on to make his address without really dealing with it. He mentioned something about costs increasing and that doctors do not trust the Government. If they do not trust the Government, they certainly will not trust Labor; that is for sure. They would prefer to deal with this Government. There is no question about that. The speeches of the honourable member for Prospect and the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  remind me of a statement by a prominent politician in the United Kingdom who is quoted as saying that an army general did not necessarily make the best Minister for Defence, and a doctor not necessarily the best Minister for Health. The wisdom of that quotation has been amply demonstrated in the addresses from those 2 honourable members today. I will deal with some comments by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in a few minutes. The matter of public importance is described in this way: 
The spiralling costs to the public of health services under the Government's insurance programme. 
This matter has been dealt with very adequately by the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  who led the debate for the Government. He quoted figures for health costs in Australia and compared them with increasing costs in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. While he said that they were increasing at about the same rate, I believe that the benefit leans towards Australia. Those figures, in effect, really answer the charges that have been made. They completely refute the suggestion that the spiralling costs of the Government's health insurance programme have not been in line with the increases in costs in other countries. It is very easy to state that the cost of health services is on the increase. Indeed it would be. remarkable if these costs were not increasing. Everyone with the slightest knowledge of the subject knows that the rising cost of health services is a fact of life in every country in the world, as was clearly illustrated in the figures that were cited by the Minister in his speech. Particularly in developed countries such as Australia the continually rising standard of the health services must contribute something to the cost of those health services. 
It is totally misleading also to suggest that the increase in health costs which has occurred in Australia is a consequence of any unwise action on the part of this Government. Indeed the truth is exactly the reverse. In the late 1960s contributors to medical benefits schemes were not receiving the level of coverage that they expected and, indeed, the amount that they needed. As a result of action taken by this Government in the establishment of the Nimmo Committee and by the implementation of its major recommendations, by 1970 the proportion of doctors bills left to patients to meet was below 19 per cent compared with an average of 39 per cent in the year ended June 1969. So much for these spiralling costs with which the Opposition continually hammers us. 
In the short time available to my colleagues they dealt adequately with the Government's health policy. I should like to deal with some aspects of the Australian Labor Party's approach to this question. Its health scheme, of course, is based on a health tax. I believe that members of the Opposition have conceded that such a tax must be imposed to cover the costs of their scheme. I think, however, that they have considerably underrated the costs of the scheme. The tax that they agree would have to be imposed already has varied 3 times since 1970, but these figures have not been mentioned. Initially the tax would have increased by 1.25 per cent over the 1969 figure; by 1.3 per cent approximately 18 months later and by a further 1.35 per cent late last year. The Labor Party's scheme involves spiralling costs also. The Labor Party's figures are based on a percentage of income tax. What about increases in the actual basis from which this taxation is derived? If this factor is taken into account one finds that the Opposition's compulsory tax would be increasing by about 12 per cent per annum. The actual percentage is about 8 per cent but it is closer to 12 per cent when one takes into account the rise in the income tax figures over a period. 
I am concerned that the shadow Minister for Health in the Labor Party is a Queenslander. 1 would expect the Labor Party to want to nationalise health by whatever means possible - whether by the squeeze or otherwise - to achieve that end. I can understand the attitude of the Labor Party. This has been the objective and aim of that Party for a long time and by whatever means it chooses it will contrive to achieve such nationalisation. There is little doubt about that. If one examines the Labor Party's health scheme one can appreciate that this will be the basis upon which, by the squeeze as it is sometimes called, there will be a nationalisation of Australia's health services. However, I cannot understand a Queenslander sounding the death knell of the free hospitalisation scheme which operates in Queensland, but this is what the Labor Party will seek to do. There is no question about that either. I can understand why the Labor Party would want to squeeze out the private hospital system. Under the Labor health scheme there will be a system whereby the amount of benefits received by people will be such as to make the cost of private hospitalisation beyond their financial capacity. At present a person can receive about $180 in benefits but under the Labor Party scheme a person will get about $13 towards the cost of his hospitalisation. So people will not be able to enter private hospitals which have done grand work in Australia and have worked in conjunction with public hospitals. 
This is one factor that must come into consideration when one examines the Labor Party's proposed health scheme. There is no doubt that there will be an end to private hospitals under its scheme. Private hospitals will not be able to manage and the people conducting these hospitals are deeply concerned about the situation. I think of hospitals in Brisbane, the capital city of my own State - St Martin's Hospital, St Helen's Methodist Hospital, St 
Andrew's War Memorial Hospital and Mater Misericordiae Private Hospital - which are doomed under a Labor scheme. 
It is all right for honourable members opposite to say 'Rubbish' because they only talk rubbish.I am concerned about the fate of St Vincent's hospital in Toowoomba, which is oloser to my home town. These are the hospitals whose futureI am concerned about if the Labor Party's scheme is ever introduced. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Lilley, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns). 
-It is just that I should pay a tribute to a man who has devoted much time to sorting out the problems of health services. I can understand members of the Opposition being unwilling to hear me pay a tribute that is justly due to the Minister for Housing for the part he has played in this field. If the Australian public wants the nationalisation of health services it can get it by electing a Labor government.If it wants to squeeze the private hospital system throughout Australia it can do so by the same means. If it wants the right for people to choose their own doctor and their own hospital and if people are prepared to pay the little difference between hospital costs and medical benefits, the people should had the right to choose. 
If it is not little, it will be larger under the Labor Party scheme. That is the major difference between the Government's policy and the Australian Labor Party's policy which will cost infinitely more than members opposite are prepared to admit. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House of the present position regarding the setting up of facilities to provide long term loans for primary producers? Is the Government aware that many primary producers have not qualified for rural reconstruction finance only because of great personal sacrifice on their part and on the part of their families,  and that they now need and deserve long term finance to enable them to take advantage of the present favourable prices for many rural products? Finally, is the Government aware that provision of long term finance could avert the need for greater rural reconstruction finance in the future and at the same time benefit rural towns and communities? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
The purpose of the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill 1972 is to amend the extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966-1968 in the same way as- the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Act was amended by the Bill just considered. The amendment arises from the obligations imposed by The Hague Convention and the purpose of the Bill was explained in the second reading speech on the Bill relating to accession to that Convention. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
I commend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for his interest in his area and, while the ideas that he has put forward have been answered by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  I am glad to see that he has taken this interest. Perhaps the honourable member did not know about the Public Works Committee meeting on this reference as early as he would have liked to. Perhaps he did not have the means of knowing that this reference was coming forward. We have the opportunity in this House of knowing what references are to be considered, but I believe that it would be desirable for the Federal member of the area in which the Public Works Committee is to examine a reference to be notified as early as possible of that examination. I think that this improvement should be made to the way in which we publicise our hearings at the moment. 
As the Postmaster-General pointed out, alternative sites for the exchange were looked at. It was not just decided to construct the telephone exchange in that area without due consideration. The Public Works Committee always endeavours to try to find the best solution in siting a work. The Committee does not have the opportunity to undertake an examination of alternative sites unless this is provided to us. If alternative sites are there, the Committee looks at them. But we are reluctant to delay a provision of any public need. 
This exchange quite clearly will be required by the time it can reasonably be expected to be completed. I do not want to repeat what the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has already said. But I want to make one point about his criticism that was made about the construction of Commonwealth Offices in New Guinea. The honourable member for Hughes asked why the Government had not moved earlier and done something sooner. Well, the building that we are undertaking could easily be quite a reasonable business proposition. I recall the scream that went up, when the Government was buying in wool, about all the money that this would cost the community. The taxpayers at large finished up showing a profit of $10m. Because of the progress and development which is occurring in that area I would not be surprised if there were a profit, or at least not a loss, from this building. Now that it is known that it must be built, the final result might be that the building is more appropriately suited to its function than if something had been built without knowing exactly when it was to be used. From this angle, I believe that the proposal will prove in the end to be a reasonably satisfactory one. The question of the Post Office has been fairly well covered but I want to repeat that I think the honourable member for Griffith entered into this discussion with the idea of trying to put the views of the people he represents in this area, which views have no doubt been put to him, and from that angle I feel he is to be commended. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON (Griffith)  -  I seek leave to make a short speech. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would like to join those who have congratulated you on your appointment to the office of  Speaker.  I do that very warmly, as a co-Deputy  Chairman  of Committees with you in the last Parliament. I also congratulate the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. Tonight 1 am encouraged to talk about the need of the provision of telephones in rural areas. I have heard a lot about the progress that, is going to be made under this Government and the speed with which it will operate. I hope that some of that speed will be directed into those areas where there is a need for  it.  I hope that there will be an improvement in the conditions which are applying. I am not suggesting that some improvements have not been made. Quite a number of automatic exchanges have been provided, 'but there are a lot of applicants waiting for telephone services. I note that the Government intends to hold a royal commission into the Post Office. 
Someone said: "Hear, hear!' What I am concerned about is that these very urgent and very essential needs may be postponed until such time as a report is brought down. We know from previous experience the delays that can occur when these commissions take place. So I appeal to the Postmaster-General not just to take refuge in the fact that there is going to be a royal commission, because whatever the finding may be it surely could not do other than urge the provision of advanced communications and automatic exchanges, with the consequent benefits that they bring. 
This is not the first time that I have spoken on this and other subjects. But a very long delay is being experienced in the provision of these telephone services. I also make a plea for the provision of more automatic telephone exchanges. The position is that until they are provided people cannot even help themselves. They cannot construct a telephone line because they do not know where it is to go and they have nothing to connect to until those exchanges are provided in the areas where they are designed to go. I notice that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is in the chamber. I hope that he will take notice of the comments that I am making on this matter. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not simply a matter of dollars and cents. A human problem is involved in relation to the provision of telephone services. The running of a property today is a business. How many people would be prepared to conduct a business without the benefit of a telephone? 
But the matter goes deeper than that. I would like some consideration to be given to wives and the mothers of children who are isolated and away from any assistance that would be available to them if telephones were provided. What is the use of an excellent ambulance service, even 50 or 60 miles away, if there is no way of contacting it in an emergency. The matter goes a little beyond what most people mink to be the position. If the Government intends to live up to its claim that it is interested in people, as it has said so often, I point out that here are some people who are deserving of its consideration. I hope that the Government will live up to the claim that it makes in this direction. I am looking for a definite programme of what is to be done. Because this policy introduced by the previous government is only a comparatively new one - I am not sure of the exact date of its introduction but it was only a couple of years ago - it is only just getting off the ground. What we want now and urgently need is a definite programme of what is to happen. When can these people expect to be provided with these telephones and telephone exchanges? I urge the Postmaster-General to give us a programme in this direction, even if it is not as forward thinking as we sometimes hear from the Government is the case. At least let us know where we stand on this matter. I urge that this consideration be given. 
I point out also from an economic point of view that this is a once-only expenditure. It is costly to provide these services, but having provided them to the standard at which they are being provided under the scheme, the cost of maintenance is reduced very substantially. Indeed, automatic exchanges will not work effectively until the subscribers to those exchanges are provided with lines of the very highest standard. We can look forward to a decreasing maintenance cost for those services which will be provided with this very high standard of communication. Surely in 1973 it is not too much to ask that a telephone be provided. It would be reasonable to expect that the lag in all areas that is existing now be looked at particularly in the areas of greatest need. The only way we can overcome that lag is by a greater provision of funds for that purpose. 
I was a member of the Public Works Committee last year. Last year the Committee approved the construction of telecommunications exchange buildings in Sydney and Brisbane. If I remember rightly, the cost of the Brisbane telecommunications exchange was approximately $l0.2m. It was essential that it be constructed. If it were not agreed to by the Committee at that stage, there would have been complete chaos in interstate and in international communications. So the justification for that expenditure of capital in Brisbane definitely existed and the Committee approved of it. But having this type of amenity or facility in a capital city is very little consolation for the mother of a sick child who cannot even contact another person for assistance. I can cite other instances where bush fires have surrounded a home - this is not drawing a long bow; it has happened - and women have endeavoured to keep the fires back and have suffered very seriously In health as a result of having to do so. I know that in the past we have had to accept this type of living in certain areas, but surely in 1973 we should be closing in on such problems. In point of fact, we are going much too slowly in that direction. So I urge the PostmasterGeneral, who I am sure has a sympathetic nature, to look very closely at the problem of providing adequate telephone services to those areas. I ask him particularly to look at the humanitarian side of the matter. If he has any doubt about where the area of great est need is, I would like him to come into the area and meet some of the people who make such appeals to me. They are sometimes emotional appeals but they are very well and very soundly based on the real need of these people to have this amenity provided for them. I leave it now to the PostmasterGeneral to provide a programme and to give some indication of when this amenity can be provided in outlying areas. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: In view of the fact that the telecommunications section of the PostmasterGeneral's Department showed a profit of $71. lm in the financial year 1971-72, which included the implementation of part of what he called the country lines policy of which he was so critical, how does he substantiate the claim that he inherited a policy that would oblige him to increase telephone charges by 25 per cent next year to get capital? Secondly, will the introduction of a 35-hour week and the granting of 4 weeks annual leave further aggravate the financial position of his Department and necessitate even further increases in telephone and/ or postal charges? 
 I would like to talk about a matter which I believe is very important to many people in the rural areas of this country who would look to this Government to give some support to them in the position in which they find themselves. I refer to workers engaged in the kangaroo industry. I would like to draw this matter to the attention of supporters of the Government who represent areas where the kangaroo is a problem. I hope that these honourable members will have the honesty and courage of their convictions to support the arguments that I will make in connection with the ban which has been imposed by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  in another place on the export of kangaroo skins. He said that the ban could have been implemented much sooner, but the fact is that a ban has not been in force. The Minister spoke of this ban as though it had just been adopted and he has fixed the date from which the ban will apply. There has been a meeting of State Ministers on this subject, but I believe that it was almost farcical to hold the meeting because the decision was taken before the meeting was held. I do not think that whatever happened at that meeting would have made any difference to the decision that was made by the Government. I say that with some degree of certainty in my mind. However, the meeting was called and it was decided to oppose the uncontrolled harvesting of kangaroos and related species. Everybody wanted that. There has been no argument about that. The meeting recognised that for conservation purposes selective culling or harvesting of certain species of macropods may be a legitimate management practice. I agree that it is a legitimate management practice. 
The meeting agreed that a scientifically acceptable range of data gathering and control measures be drawn up to regulate culling or harvesting throughout Australia in the interests of conservation of the species and the general environment. The House appointed a select committee composed of Government and Opposition members to inquire into that matter under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox).  Full opportunity was given for evidence to be taken and a very worthwhile report was tabled. 1 pay tribute to .ill members of that committee for the sincerity of purpose with which they faced up to the task that was entrusted to them. 
Now we find that a Minister in another place who certainly knows nothing about kangaroos has stepped in, taken the matter into his own hands and made a decision which is in direct contradiction to the best evidence that was available to him. He prefers to take the advice of some academic who knows as little about the kangaroo problem as the Minister himself does. The Minister had advice from the House of Representatives Select Committee, the membership of which included a number of members of his own Party who put in a great deal of time and made a very thorough examination. The matter was dealt with very effectively by that Committee. 
Members of the last Parliament will recall the very conscientious way in which the honourable member for Henty brought forward, day after day, representations from people in his own area calling for a restriction on the export of kangaroos and kangaroo products. As  Chairman  he travelled with the committee and concurred with its very sensible findings. One finding of the committee stated: 
That the imposition of a Commonwealth ban on the export of kangaroo products would not of itself ensure the conservation of kangaroos. Reduction of numbers would still be necessary. If not carried out by the industry this would need to be done by property owners, or by State wildlife authorities at public expense. 
Do members of that Committee still subscribe to that finding? 1 feel sure that they do. The Committee further stated: 
That although repugnant to some sections of the community, spotlight shooting  wilh  rifles equipped with telescopic sights is the most effective and humane method of killing kangaroos. 
There is no question on that point. The committee further stated: 
That areas where  overharvesting  appears to be occurring should be zoned and spelled until trends in the local kangaroo population can be assessed. 
We all agree with that finding; there is no argument about it. Another finding of the committee was: 
That much confusion exists about the degree of competition between kangaroos and domestic stock for feed. Wildlife scientists made it clear that in good conditions kangaroos and sheep can co-exist as their diets overlap to the extent of only about 40 per cent. Unfortunately many conservationists have extended this rinding to all conditions. The committee accepts that complaints by pastoralists and graziers of the effect of kangaroos on pastures have some justification. In adverse conditions competition increases for scarce fodder resources. It is most serious when kangaroos eat out pastures being spelled for stock. 
Another point 1 wish to make is that between 600,000 and 700,000 kangaroos were harvested in Queensland last year. Yet we are told that this species is in danger of extinction. I hope that the House takes some notice of that. The wildlife conservation authorities in Queensland, who are charged with the responsibility of preserving these species and ensuring that they are not brought to extinction, have claimed that one million kangaroos could be harvested in Queensland alone without necessarily endangering the species. The State government has the responsibility of ensuring that kangaroos are kept to reasonable numbers in that State. A harvest of between 600,000 and 700,000 has enabled the species to survive in large numbers. 
I should say also that the people engaged in the industry  -  in fact the whole industry - might have expected some support from hon ourable members opposite as they are anxious to maintain their industry on a continuing basis. Sufficient kangaroos are available for the industry to continue. St George, which is one of the towns where the kangaroo industry operates, is receiving no less than Sim annually as a result of this industry. This is a tremendous help to an area which has suffered severely from drought and previously low wool prices. A completely absurd restriction has been placed on these people. It is a hasty, ill-considered, unnecessary and unwarranted decision. 1 hope that some reasonable common sense will emanate from the decisions that were made by the committee. I do not blame all people, or al] Ministers, who are involved in this matter. Some have a more sensible approach than that of  Senator Murphy,  the Minister for Customs  and  Excise. 1 believe that perhaps some common sense will prevail  aDd  I hope that the Australian Labor Party will not allow  Senator Murphy  to take advice from academics only and ride roughshod over the representatives of people engaged in the kangaroo industry. 
by leave- The only point that I wish to make in connection with this matter is that I believe it is regretable that the Public Works Committee should need to recommend that the criterion on which projects are referred to the Committee for investigation should be varied. But, as has been pointed out, the amount of time available to the Committee precludes it from investigating the number of projects which would be referred to it under the old criterion. However, there are times when projects costing less than the specified amount are important to the community. As was pointed out by the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, these can be referred to the Committee. I recommend that the Government should look perhaps a little more closely at this idea and give consideration to that procedure in the case of a project in respect of which the estimated cost of construction is less than the prescribed amount above which the Public Works Committee would of necessity ordinarily be obliged to examine a project. In this way, important projects which are controversial could be the subject of comment by interested members of the public at public hearings of the committee. People interested in these projects will have the opportunity of expressing an opinion to the Public Works Committee about them. This is the one way in which these people are afforded an opportunity to have their views heard and presented to the Government. 
Before going on to speak on a couple of subjects I have in mind I want to comment on the Country Party's attitude to revaluation. Any person with any understanding at all of what revaluation or devaluation means must know that devaluation assists exporters and revaluation is against their interests, lt is as simple as that and I will not waste any more time on that subject. Prices are high for products for which there is a demand. Prices fluctuate according to the demand for the product, with or without devaluation or revaluation. 
Today I want to make a plea for a broader national outlook with an earnest desire to promote the welfare of all and attention to the social needs of all Australians. I make a plea for consideration for minority groups where the need is fully demonstrated. I believe that any party that advocates one vote one value should also be prepared to provide equal opportunity for all people to receive, for example, the benefits of television, and at least the benefits of telephonic communication. A suggestion has been made that telephones should be installed only in situations where it would be economically sound. I remind honourable members of the situation at places like Birdsville, where the lives of people could have been saved had a telephone been available there. In the circumstances, the radio telephone available there was not very satisfactory. One of the most expensive areas in which to establish telephonic communication would be from Boulia to Birdsville. A proposal was initiated by the previous Government to install a telephone line there and I would like to know whether the present Government is not going ahead with this proposal simply because it may not be economic in its operations. 
From a tourist point of view such a telephone line would have great advantages as the area is one of the prime tourist attractions of this country. Surely the welfare of a community requires such amenities and necessities and their provision should not be based upon economics alone. I would like to know why there is discrimination. It is not true to say that the urban population always provides some assistance for the rural population while the reverse is not the case. In fact, the reverse is the case. As proof of that I wish to quote from one of today's newspapers which carries an article about transport systems. It states: 
An Australian transport expert believes that Federal and State governments will need to spend at least $ 1,000m by 1977-78 on the nation's public transport systems to avert a 'very serious' situation. 
In my home State of Queensland a great share of the loss on transport was recorded by the metropolitan railways. I appreciate that those railways come within the State sphere of administration but I want to appeal for a broad national outlook, as I said at the beginning of my speech. I would like to see items of government expenditure weighed against the advantages from a national point of view. No amount of criticism, ridicule or anything else will prevent me, and I hope I speak for all members of my Party, from continuing to put that point of view. I return to the article from which I quoted a little earlier. It went on: 
Later in his talk  Mr Clark  discussed the prospect of a 'likely' Federal grant of $ 1,500m for urban transport in the next 5 years. 
While people in urban areas will be paying their share, so will the whole community. That is the point we want to make. The article continued: 
. about $ 1,000m for urban roads and $5()0m for capital improvements for public transport. 
In addition, the States 'must find' at least another $500m to meet operational deficits of the urban public transport system. 
So it is not true to say that any time government expenditure is provided there is a subsidy from the urban areas to the rural areas. Even if in the national interest expenditure was provided in this manner I hope this would be the criteria on which such finance would be provided. The article went on to state: 
Operating losses on urban railway systems will be the largest single item in the total of financial contributions from governments to urban public transport systems during the five years,' . . . 
Surely this indicates that we can deal on  a  quid pro quo basis in these matters of urban versus rural expenditures and receipts. Surely our outlook should be broad enough for us to provide some sort of benefits to people in outlying areas or people who belong to a minority group without having to weigh up and put into a completely watertight compartment the decision whether the provision of finance is economic. I hope that the Government will give greater consideration to the social needs of the community and not just weigh them totally and wholly on economics. 
We heard quite recently from the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who I am glad is at the table at the moment even though he is not taking any notice of what is going on in the Parliament so far as I can see. The Minister is engaged in another conversation. 
That is not my business. The Minister has a job to do, but I think he ought to listen to what J am saying. The Minister has claimed that the Labor Party represents more rural or country electorates than any party in this Parliament. I would like to know what the Government is achieving for country people. An article in one of today's newspapers was headed: 'ALP Caucus Blow-up'. The sub-heading of the article was: Battle over farm subsidy'. So the largest country party in the Parliament has been able to achieve nothing. I would hope that those Labor Party representatives of country electorates, who have been unable to achieve anything in the Labor Party, might join the Country Party. I believe that the support given to the Labor Party in the last election by people from country areas has been wasted. Supporters of the Labor Party have, according to the Press report, had a battle in caucus. Even with the assistance of some members who were disgruntled with the attitude of the Ministry those members who represent country areas could not get a majority in Caucus. One cannot say that about the Australian Country Party. We do not have that problem at all. 
Even the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  is reported as having been against the interests of rural people - against the group in Caucus which tried to get a better deal for rural industry. Members of the Labor Party are bound by decisions of Caucus and therefore those members representing rural areas are handicapped in their efforts to help country people. They would do better in the Country Party. The Press have called them - I think this is a bit unfair - the rural rump. 
There has been little support from the Government for the campaign that we have been waging to try to get more country telephones. Do not give me the answer that this is something that the previous Government should have done. The provision of country telephone services is a continuing thing. The previous Government was doing just this. What we are asking for is a continuation at least of this service to meet the needs of people in country areas. 
There has been very little support for the preservation of the kangaroo industry in rural areas. Some people know that it is absurd to try to put a ban on the export of Kangaroo products. In fact some 600,000 to 700,000 kangaroos have been processed in Queensland alone and there are still large numbers in that State. Experts have proved, by an examination of this problem, that the kangaroo numbers can continue more or less indefinitely. We have just heard a speech about devaluation compensation. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro said that devaluation did not cause any disadvantage to those people who live in the rural areas of Australia. The Queensland Grain Growers Council is putting up a very strong case in my State for revaluation compensation for grain industries. 
Finally, I appeal for a reasonable approach to the problems that I have mentioned. I hope that the Government will promote national development as well as and together with urban and regional development and will give a high priority to social needs rather than introduce purely economic measures. 
There has been so much noise from the other side of the chamber and criticism of the Country Party attitude that I felt that it might be as well for me to add something to the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon). 
Your curiosity will be satisfied in due course. The Country Party accepts that the salaries of members of the Australian Parliament have fallen well behind the relative positions of those salaries at the time of the last adjustment of parliamentary salaries. Because of this, we recognise fully the need for an increase in parliamentary salaries. An increase is fully justified. There is no argument as far as we are concerned on that aspect of the matter. The point that I should like to make in connection with this legislation is that the Labor Party has taken the opportunity in this Bill to try to denigrate the Country Party. It also hopes,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  by this measure to try to drive a wedge between the Liberal Party and the Country Party. This was mentioned in the Press only tonight. If those honourable members opposite who are trying to interject would only listen to me they would hear what I have to say. 
I did not wish to demote you,  Mr Speaker.  The Labor Party has endeavoured to gain some political capital by its action. The Country Party is determined, so far as it is within its power, to maintain the status of the Country Party in this Parliament. We will not be a party to any lessening of our status. If the Government thinks that by introducing such a precedent in conjunction with a salaries Bill it will weaken our attitude in this respect, it has badly misjudged the calibre, the standing and the principles of the Australian Country Party and the honourable members who represent it in this Parliament. We will not weaken simply because we may suffer some penalty if we do not weaken. We have taken the stand as is expressed in the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. 
The Country Party always has been prepared to fight for its standing within the Parliament. We appreciate the attitude taken by our Leader, at the time when the new Parliament had not been called into session in attempting to establish the position of the Country Party in this Parliament. We believe now that we should stand, as we have done, as a team and support our Leader in this matter. We feel that he has played his part. It is up to us now to show, as the honourable member for Gippsland has said, . that this amendment represents a unanimous decision taken by the Country Party. It has been moved with the intention of showing this Parliament and the Australian people that the Leader of the Country Party was fighting, not for his personal rights but for the Country Party to be accorded its proper status in this House. 
The outstanding feature of the Australian Country Party throughout its history in this Parliament has been its solidarity. That has been exhibited again in this case. We stand solidly behind what we believe to be right for the Australian Country Party. We are prepared to do that whenever we feel it is necessary to do so, and that is what we are doing tonight. I believe that there is a growing dissatisfaction with the Government. It has shown many weaknesses. Rebellions have occurred in the ranks of its Ministers. It has presented conflicting views. The Prime Minister has had his job cut out trying to hold his Government together. The Government probably realised that the only real hope that it had of being returned at the next election would be to cause a division in the ranks of the Parties opposing it. It has grabbed this opportunity to try to do just that. It feels  -  I think rightly so - that unless it can demonstrate to the people of Australia that there is not the unity on this side of the Parliament which is necessary for effective government, it will not be returned at the next election. This legislation represents a miserable attempt to promote that angle. No matter how one looks at it, it is hard to explain this action of the Government in any other way, especially in the light of the letter written by the Prime Minister to the Leader of the Country Party, and in the light of the whole history of our Party in this Parliament. 
The leader of a third Party always has been recognised in a much stronger and more satisfactory way over the years than is proposed in this Bill. The provisions of this Bill represent a new approach. No doubt the Government has its reason for this approach, lt is not just to gain the paltry saving which is achieved by reducing the salary of the Leader of the Australian Country Party. We know only too well that the eminence of the positions of office holders in this Parliament is gauged in relation to the salaries and allowances that they receive. We will not have the office of the Leader of the Australian Country Party reduced in status just to satisfy some of the ideas of the Government. We are not prepared to allow that. Honourable members opposite may make as much noise as they like. They can scream about it as much as they like. Country Party members have their views and we will have them heard. 
If honourable members opposite do not accept that argument, perhaps they might accept another theory which was put to me this afternoon, namely, that the Prime Minister and the Government have some fear of the growing acclaim that the Leader of the Australian Country Party is receiving throughout this great nation. He has been referred to in many circles as one of the great Australian statesmen. The tactics adopted by the Prime Minister, if my theory is right, represent shrewd thinking. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in particular is noted for his astuteness in this field. I am glad to be able to nail the possible basis of this action. I believe that the Prime Minister would have been most pleased if he had been able to get away with this tactic without the true position as we see it being ventilated. This is what we have done. All we ask for is what the Prime Minister himself accepted earlier - an equality. We have not asked for anything more than the Prime Minister agreed was reasonable. All we have asked for is for the Leader of the Australian Country Party to have equality with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Surely that is reasonable enough. We told the Gov.eernment about our attitude on this matter and we put up a fair and reasonable proposition which the Government turned down. We are not prepared to take the Government's decision lying down, and we are not going to. 
Honourable members opposite will find that we are on our feet tonight in defence not of  Mr Anthony  as such but of the Leader of this Party and the status and standing of the Austraiian Country Party. I cannot emphasise that too strongly. This is where members of the Country Party stand. I endorse the points made in the excellent speeches by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party and the honourable member for Gippsland in putting the position of the Country Party before the House.  I  wanted to put forward a number of other arguments in support of the case of the Country Party. However, I will not be able to do so because  I  have limited my time to  10  minutes. T believe that what has been said already has amply demonstrated the solidarity of this Party. Members of the Country Party are prepared to accept whatever penalty might be attached to taking this stand, which we believe to be fair and reasonable. But the Government has ridden roughshod over our proposition. It could have acceded to our request but now it is not prepared to do so. 
We are not opposing the Bill as such. We believe that the salaries and allowances provided for in this Bill are overdue and should be provided to members of the Parliament. But we cannot accept the position in which we have been placed by the Government. I say that the Government deserves the severest criticism for the miserable attack which it has made on our party through our Leader. 
I too support the Bill. I feel that it will provide much improved benefits in compensation for Commonwealth employees injured in the course of their employment. I welcome the improvements that this Bill provides. I have the very highest regard for Commonwealth employees. I believe that the majority of them are dedicated and perform very useful work in a very wide range of activities throughout the Commonwealth. My only worry is that there are hot enough Commonwealth employees in my own area. As an example I mention that in the largest town in my electorate there is no office of the Department of Social Security. Many other Government departments do not have offices in that town. I believe that there is a need for a decentralisation of administration with the object of providing in country areas benefits that flow from having an office of a department established there. I hope that the Government will give consideration to that aspect of the Commonwealth Public Service, members of which will now enjoy the benefits that this Bill will bring. 
I mention as another example that I should like to see more technicians of the Postal Department installing telephones and more automatic telephone exchanges in country areas. These things are vital. I could cite many examples to show how much they are needed. However, I propose to touch for a moment on the remarks made by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  The honourable member said that members of the Opposition were paying lip service to the Bill. Honourable members on this side of the chamber have maintained that we do not oppose the Bill. Does the honourable member suggest that that is paying lip service to it? Surely honourable members on this side of the chamber have a right to draw attention to those aspects of the Bill which we feel need attention. 
Some points needing attention have been stated already. Much of the speech made by the honourable member for Melbourne, who spoke for the whole 20 minutes allowed to him, was taken up with a reiteration of the second reading speech by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  although he did mention that he wanted to point out some things to the Minister. However, the Minister was absent from the chamber so the honourable member was unable to point out these things to him. The honourable member referred to the Seamen's Compensation Act and urged the Minister to do something about that. The Minister was absent when those remarks were made and he is not listening now; instead he is talking to another honourable member and has not heard the comments made during this debate. It has been suggested that we are paying lip service to the Bill, but the Minister has not been here to give attention to points made, by honourable members in this debate. 
I hope that the Minister will pay some attention when I remind him that a point has been made about the costs of the proposals contained in the Bill. I suggest that this is a point that needs to be considered. In relation to any disbursement of Commonwealth funds for any purpose the Government should give as accurate as possible an estimate of the costs of the proposal. An estimate of costs is absent from the second reading speech on this measure. Apparently no estimate has been made. I should like to emphasise - although what I propose to say may be twisted into a way that is not intended - that a knowledge of the costs involved does not necessarily mean that we would suggest any alteration to the Bill. It is essential that we know the costs of these proposals if we are to debate the measure effectively. We should like to know the total cost of the Government's expenditures so that we can consider the effects that the proposals will have on the economy. 
As my friend the honourable member for Calare has said, it is normal business procedure. It would have been reasonable for the Government when introducing this Bill to give the Opposition some indication of the estimated cost of the proposals. I feel that the absence of some such indication is a weakness. We on this side of the House make no apology for drawing attention to what should have been done. The Parliament should know the estimated cost of these proposals. 
Yes, it would make a difference in that one could then look at what should be done in connection with the financing of the overall structure of the economy. The Country Party has been left in the dark by the Government as to the cost of the proposals. We want to know how the scheme will be financed and how the financing of this scheme, in conjunction with all the other Government expenditures, many of which are reckless, will affect the community. We should like to know whether extra taxation will be required or whether some of the benefits that are already available in other spheres will have to be reduced to finance this scheme. The Minister might give attention to those matters. 
Will the recipients of the benefits of this proposal have to contribute through further taxation to provide for these benefits? I know that the answer will be no because it would be good politics to say no. The presence of 3 Government supporters listening to this debate shows the tremendous interest that the Government has in this Bill. There are many more Country Party members in the chamber at present than there are members of the Labor Party. I believe that in a Bill so important as this it would have been reasonable to expect the Labor Party to show a little more interest. I hope that the Minister will give some attention to these questions with regard to the financing of the legislation. Will it have the effect of recipients having to contribute more taxation? If not, what effect will it have? How are the proposals to be financed? What is the position with regard to the overall cost structure of this country in relation to all the other expenditures of the Government? I believe that it would be reasonable to assume that in the foreseeable future similar compensation benefits will apply to industry as a whole. The Minister commented on that in his second reading speech. It was a very brief comment, but at least a comment was made. The Minister said that it is only right and proper that there should be a comprehensive compensation code to cover all workers who arc injured. We do not object to that but I point out that this would involve a cost to the community. How is that cost to be mct? The cost of providing this standard of compensation should be taken into consideration when assessing the final cost to the community. 
In asking these questions I repeat that I am not suggesting that these standards of compensation should not apply, but I am suggesting that the Government should have given some indication of how this legislation will affect the whole of its economic and taxation policies. An indication should have been given of the extent to which prices might have to be increased by industry if these standards of compensation are to be finally applied to industry. Does the Government expect that industry, and small businessmen in particular, will be able to carry this extra cost when eventually it has to be met, as certainly it will have to be met? Is the Government of the opinion that employees other than Commonwealth employees are not entitled to the same standard of compensation as applies to Commonwealth employees? I agree with the suggestion made by the Minister that the benefits should flow to all industry. If the flow on does occur, someone will have to meet the extra costs. The Minister may care to offer some information on the matters I have raised. Again I stress that I am not suggesting an alteration but simply want to know the answers to the questions I have asked. 
I can assure the Minister that many people are concerned about the cost of the Government's very generous proposals. The Government has not been backward in handing out taxpayers' funds. When one considers the costs of many of the proposals, including the 35-hour week, it is obvious that the costs will have to be borne by somebody. It is the total operation of all the Government's proposals that concerns me. I should like to know whether this trend is to continue and, if it does, how it will affect the economy. One of the ways in which the cost of the proposals could be met would be by an increase in prices. The consumers of the goods which are increased in price will, in turn, have to contribute to this bill. Among those contributors will be some who will benefit from the introduction of this legislation. 
I should like to know the net benefit to the employees and how much of the benefit will be eroded in different ways. I feel that we should not have had to ask for an explanation on this matter; it is something which the Minister should have explained in his second reading speech. In common with other speakers I welcome the reference to the need for continuing efforts to be made to reduce the number of accidents and to improve the health of the community. I appreciate that reference and I hope that success will be achieved in this direction. I hope that some reduction will be made in the number of cases for which compensation will have to be paid. I believe that every right-thinking person will agree that every endeavour should be made to cope with this matter and the fullest possible research should be carried out to see that the maximum amount of safety is provided. I am sure that the people of Australia would co-operate fully in applying the most effective safety measures available. Any step that can be taken to reduce suffering and to maintain people in gainful employment should be among the highest priorities of the Government and of every member of this Parliament. I am very pleased that the very deserving Commonwealth employees will receive the benefits that are envisaged in this Bill. My only concern is that these benefits may be very seriously eroded if the Government does not adopt a more responsible attitude to the economic state of this country. However, my colleagues on this side of the House welcome and support the Bill. 
Tonight 1 refer to a water conservation project in southern Queensland known at Pike's Creek dam which is part of the proposed larger Border Rivers scheme in southern Queensland. After a long period of negotiation which was undertaken by the Border Rivers Association, agreement was reached between the State Governments of New South Wales and Queensland and the Commonwealth Government to go on with the construction of this dam. The announcement was made prior to the last Parliament rising by the then Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz. But before the House rose, no legislation had been introduced to enable this agreement to be implemented. As 1 understand it, Queensland and New South Wales are prepared to go ahead with the building of this dam but the new Commonwealth Government has not, at this stage, agreed to proceed with it and has not in fact, up to now, honoured the undertaking given by the previous Government. I do not say that it will not go ahead with it but at the moment the project is being delayed. 
I understand that an environmental study was being undertaken, that it was completed this week, and that the Commonwealth Government was awaiting the result of that study. 1 understand that this should be in the hands of the Commonwealth Government now. So, I hope, that to save any further delay the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will agree to the proposal made by the Queensland Government for the letting of a contract - a proposal which has been accepted by the New South Wales Government and is simply waiting for the consent of the Federal Government. 
This project is not something that has happened overnight. A lot of study has gone into this matter over a period of years. Indeed, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and I have been associated with it in the Federal sphere for a number of years. It is a project which will not be really costly to any government when regard is had to the value that it will have for that area. The dam will provide water for the area bordering the river which forms the border of New South Wales and Queensland. It is an area which has proved its worth in agricultural production. The water which will become available will benefit a large section of country which needs this provision against the unpredictable seasonal conditions which occur. The water will supply not merely a small area; the area represented by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  will also benefit. 
This is a widespread project which is estimated to cost more than $14m. This cost will be divided between 3 governments, so it will be quite an economic proposition for each government concerned. The people in the area involved are gravely concerned about what seems to be the delay and the procrastination of the Federal Government in relation to this project. During the course of the election campaign I did not hear it said that the incoming Government would subject the project to scrutiny. I am sure that the candidates for the area were fully confident that the new Government would proceed with the project. The other candidates and I did not suggest for a moment that a change of government would jeopardise the project. We were sure that the new government would honour the undertaking of the previous Government. That has been time honoured practice down the years, unless an agreement is involved which cuts right across the policy of the incoming government. In very few cases would an undertaking not have been honoured. 
1 suppose the Commonwealth Government has done nothing about that project but I do not have details of it. If that is correct, it is the exception which proves the rule. I would like to have a look at the agreement to see whether that is right. It may be easy to point to one or two instances. Does the honourable member believe that the present Government should dishonour a promise made by the previous Government? Does he think that 2 wrongs make a right? If he does, I am sorry for the people he represents. What the honourable member for Casey has said quite possibly could have happened in the distant past, but I am referring to the need for a dam, construction of which has been approved. Two State governments have agreed on it. In that area the harnessing of water is at a very low stage of development compared with the work done in the southern part of the Commonwealth. If we have a truly national government it will take an interest in providing this dam, just as it did in the Dartmouth Dam or in any other similarly worthy water conservation project. 
The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  is in the chamber. He is one Government supporter who has recognised the great value of water conservation in spite of criticisms. I hope that the Government will take some notice of the Ministers experience in this field. I am sure that he would be prepared to recommend proceeding with the project. It is causing a great deal of concern to the people in the area. I am not sure of the exact amount, but I understand that a great deal of money has already been spent on the project. A sum of almost Sim has been mentioned, but I could not guarantee that. I can say that very substantial progress has been made, to the stage where a contract for a tunnel to enable the project to proceed 5s ready. It is being held up by the Commonwealth Government. I urge the Government to give urgent consideration to the project. 
It is not only out of justice. lt is out of sound common sense and good business practice that the undertaking should be honoured. I am sure that the Government will accept that as a general principle. If the project cut across the principles of the Government I could understand its procrastination and hesitancy to get on with the job. I appeal to the Government not to delay the project any longer. Work has been done and years of study have been given to it. The previous Government gave it very close scrutiny. I took deputations to the Minister for National Development at that time. There was no rushing into it. It was carefully considered as a project in an area where the conservation of water is vitally important in the interests of decentralisation and the production of beef and coarse grains. Both those products are readily saleable and can produce a large amount of export income. If the project is proceeded with, the drier areas to the west will be able to provide fodder. Water will be provided to towns like Goondiwindi. Other advantages will accrue. A cost benefit analysis greatly favours construction of the dam. It is an area where water conservation is badly needed. I trust that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government will give very earnest consideration to having the project approved so that the contract may proceed in order to provide work and benefits for the people of the area. 
My question which is addressed to the Prime Minister, relates to the Pikes Creek Dam irrigation and town water supply project on the Queensland and New South Wales border. Is the decision as to whether the Commonwealth will provide its one third share of the funds required for this project now in the hands of the Prime Minister? Is he aware that the previous Federal Government had agreed with the State Governments of Queensland and New South Wales to share equally the cost of the dam, which is estimated at $14.5m, and which will provide substantial benefits to towns and districts on that section of the Queensland and New South Wales border? Further, is he aware that considerable work already has been done on the project on the understanding that the Commonwealth Government was to share the cost, and any repudiation of the undertaking given by the previous Government could seriously jeopardise the whole project and the project could be discontinued only with a substantial loss and waste of public funds? 
I rise tonight to draw attention to one of the disabililies suffered by people in the far western part of my vast electorate of Maranoa. I refer to the difficulty of people residing in the town of Quilpie getting newspapers as regularly as they deserve to have them - newspapers which I feel should be able to be provided for them. In the past, newspapers have been brought from Brisbane by a Trans-Australia Airlines flight on Saturdays so providing people with papers for the weekend. 
Quilpie was not included in stage 7 of the television expansion to the western areas of Queensland. It is a matter for regret that it was not included because it is the largest town in the western area. Because the residents do not have television, newspapers are of special value to them, especially at weekends. Workers in the surrounding areas come to the town at weekends and if newspapers are available they can study the form. I am not advocate of punting nor am I against it but if people want to indulge in this form of relaxation or recreation they should be enabled to do so. The provision of newspapers by that Saturday flight would enable them to engage in this activity. I would urge TAA to give serious consideration to providing a better plane service. I have spoken of this matter to TAA officials in Queensland. 
They have indicated that they will consider it. My reason for speaking on this subject tonight is to encourage them to look at it perhaps sooner and more closely so that the people who live in this area and who are so severly handicapped by the lack of amenities may feel that they are not being completely forgotten. 
I mentioned that Quilpie was not included in stage 7 of the expansion of television facilities. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is in the chamber, but this matter is no longer within his area of administration. Television now comes within the portfolio of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  I am sure that if he were to see the advantages derived from television in those remote towns which have it, he would be inclined to give consideration to a further expansion of television facilities into remoter areas. Quilpie is one of the towns yet to be serviced. Other towns in that area also missed out. The residents of these towns naturally are disappointed and wonder why they missed out. I know that the provision of television facilities is based on the cost per person and that the further out such a facility is taken the greater the cost. Nevertheless, since television is in the area and as the cost would be reduced in some instances because the micro wave links are closer than they were previously, I hope that the Minister will give serious consideration to a further expansion of television facilities in that area. I know that an examination is being made of the whole of the operations of the Post Office, including telecommunications, but as stage 7 is programmed to be completed by the end of this year I hope that the Minister will examine the possibilities of a further expansion of television into this area. 
Members of the Country Party often are accused of speaking about parochial matters, but this is common in an adjournment debate. If I were not able to speak on behalf of the people for whom I have made a plea tonight their requirements might not be made known. Not many members represent people in such communities. I can see one or two members in the chamber who represent vast areas and who would be sympathetic to the case I have presented. I take to task those people who sometimes criticise honourable members for dealing with matters which have a major rural content or which have application to country towns. Because few  people  are concerned about such matters I often feel that I must speak on such subjects when, in fact, I would be pleased to speak on matters of greater and wider import - matters of great national importance. But the few representatives of remote areas have to raise matters concerning their electorates and they are sometimes precluded from taking part in debates of national importance. I resent the suggestion that such members are concerned only with matters which affect the people in the areas they represent. We have to be concerned for those people and for that reason we sometimes are not able to talk on subjects of wider import. I would be talking more frequently on matters which affect the whole Australian community if the local subjects were able to be taken up by more members as is the case with matters involving metropolitan areas. 
The Bill before the House has caused a great deal of concern throughout the community. I submit that the fundamental issue in this debate is whether an unborn child has a right to life. I contend that the unborn child has that right. Under the law at present the life of a mother is given preference over the life of an unborn child. The position in that respect is defined. Doctors may differ in degree in interpreting the law, but I submit that the rights of a mother are well protected. This protection would be all the more assured where a choice of medical opinion was available. While thelaw provides for protection of a mother's life, under these circumstances the rights of an unborn child normally would still remain. That an unborn child has rights is widely recognised despite comments that have been made in the debate. Even in the Bill the rights are preserved when pregnancy has reached a period of 23 weeks, in the second term. Some rights are given earlier than 23 weeks in the Bill, except where the life of a mother or serious permanent injury to her is threatened. 
I repeat that the fundamental question before the House is whether the rights of an unborn child should be recognised during the whole or only part of a pregnancy. Surely there is logic in recognising that right during the whole of the pregnancy. It is true that an unborn child is at an advanced stage at the period suggested in the Bill as the time when the rights of the unborn child are acknowledged by the honourable members who are proposing the Bill. But obviously the life had begun at the beginning of pregnancy, and a decision to terminate that life in early pregnancy does not alter the fact that such action is the deliberate destruction of human life, and that surely cannot be tolerated simply to serve the convenience of another individual. 
Despite what I have said, the problem of unwanted pregnancies must be faced and every moral action taken which will reduce the number of  them and  alleviate the difficulties associated with those that occur. For example, I believe that even the churches could give greater opportunity to young people to learn what is available and allowable within the teaching of the church to which individuals belong as far as family planning is concerned. It might well be that churches generally can review this matter within their teaching. J feel that that would be a desirable course. I freely acknowledge that efforts have been made in this direction, but 1 suggest they could and should be expanded by qualified personnel. Similar work could be done by State authorities, but a program for this work should be defined and this work, I repeat, should be done by qualified personnel and the program defined should be strictly adhered to. Among the advantages that I see from a program of this kind would be. that an unmarried pregnant woman would be advised as to what help was available to her. She may know at the present time, but this information needs to be much more widely disseminated. 
A major factor in considering this Bill is to consider prevention rather than cure, and not enough has been said about that angle in this debate so far. I submit that the energy, the capacity and the (finance of this community should be marshalled and directed to that end. Even the proposers of the Bill, the 2 new Labor members of the House, have shown a good deal of incompetence because of the changing of the Bill and a good deal of impetuosity because they are new members. They have been the subject of a Press release which states: 
By bringing this important issue before the public it was hoped by the proposers that the Commonwealth and the States would take action to see that unwanted conceptions were discouraged and single and married women were not forced by social and financial pressure to have abortions they do not desire. 
That was stated in a Press release concerning the Bill that the 2 honourable members intended to bring forward. The Bill as designed and presented to this House is diametrically opposed to that objective, as it would offer a feeling of security, to young people particularly, that if a pregnancy occurred an abortion would be available and consequently encourage rather than discourage unwanted pregnancies. The fact that 2 new members are introducing this Bill makes one wonder why so soon after their election they should decide to take this action. It also poses the question: How did this matter arise? I think we can find a summing-up of the origins of this Bill in the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the then Leader of the Opposition, when on 25th June 1971 at a Labor conference he said: 
I believe in abortion on request, if you want a neat phrase. And on a sensitive issue like this, a free vote in Parliament is the way to get it. 
He went on to say: 
There would be no reform unless there was a free vote. 
So today we are debating a Bill which would provide for abortion on request, and there is to be a free vote on it. Further evidence that neither this Bill nor the amendment is necessary for the Australian Capital Territory is provided by a comment from no less an authority than the Australian Medical Association. A publication by the Association states: 
The Bill purports to 'clarify' the legal position of doctors, nurses and other persons. So far as doctors in the A.C.T. are concerned, they have not sought any clarification. The A.C.T. Medical Association considers that the legal position is clear- 
So much for the medical clarification -  and that arrangements presently available, within the law, care adequately for the interests of patients and the community as  a  whole. 
I wanted to make one or 2 points in connection with a matter that was mentioned previously in the debate. I understood the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  to say that Cardinal Knox was in favour of a royal commission. In the 'Advocate' of 10th May, printed under the heading of 'Clarification', appears this statement: 
In view of the misleading statement published in an evening paper I wish to state categorically that I have not given support to the idea of a royal commission on abortion. 
I put that in as clarification of that particular claim. Another point that I wanted to make in connection with this debate and what has happened previously is that my Leader referred to a number of Country Party members who were on a list of members who wanted to speak. But in addition to those speakers there are a number of others who have since returned from interstate to keep faith with their constituents. I know that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  and some other members have expressed their willingness or desire to speak in this debate since that list was drawn up. 
And the honourable member for McMillan, and possibly there are others as well. I do not have the complete list. Let me get back to the position in regard to the Australian Capital Territory, and let us bear in mind that that is what this Bill refers to. It may be used elsewhere but in the main it refers to the Australian Capital Territory. Let me quote what the people in the Australian Capital Territory have to say about this Bill. The Australian Capital Territory Medical Association states: 
The Association wishes the community of Canberra to know how abortion is dealt with in Canberra at this time. When a patient who wishes to have her pregnancy terminated consults her doctor, he will referher to a gynaecologist. If the gynaecologist thinks the termination is justified he will seek another opinion, often that of a psychiatrist. These opinions, applying medical, social and psychiatric criteria, are referred to a5-member committee of Canberra Hospital. The Committee comprises a general practitioner, a gynaecologist,  a  psychiatrist, a physician and a member of the medical administration. This Committee determines the case on the merit of the opinions. 
The Association considers that this system adequately cares for the interests of members' patients and for the Canberra community as a whole. The system also provides adequate safeguards for the patient and the doctor under the present law. 
So much for those people who claim that abortion is available only to those people who have the finance. It is available to others, and they can obtain it by the action that is recommended by the Australian Medical Association of the Australian Capital Territory. I understand that these views were the unanimous opinions of the 40 doctors present at a meeting to consider this matter. In fact, the degree or extent of a doctor's discretion in performing the legal abortion operation is illustrated in the judgment of His Honour Judge Gray in a Melbourne county court at the trial of Doctors T. C. Wall and Szwede on abortion charges in which he directed the jury to find the doctors not guilty of the abortion charges. Judge Gray in this judgment relied on the fact that the police surgeon when cross-examined admitted that it would be difficult not to justify a therapeutic abortion if a patient was in a state of depression, contemplating suicide and determined not to go through with the pregnancy.On this evidence the woman in question could have had a lawful abortion. I cite this as an example of the breadth of discretion that applies at the present time, and because it applies the Bill is not necessary and the amendment is not necessary. 
Liberalisation of the abortion law does not solve the problem of deaths from abortion. The Royal College of Gynaecologists in London, in evidence submitted to the Lace Commission observed: 
The number of deaths from abortion of all kinds in England and Wales is as high now as it was before the Act. Any decrease in the number of deaths from criminal abortion is matched by a rise in the number of deaths from induced abortion. 
The College further stated: 
So long as termination of pregnancy involves an operation it must mean a risk to life and health. 
Finally it said: 
It is as yet impossible to assess the long term physical ill effects, let alone the psychological sequelae of induced abortion. 
To my knowledge there has been not one word about this sort of thing from either the supporters of the Bill or the honourable members pressing the amendment. The suggestion is that a woman can have an abortion and that is the end of it and no ill effects follow it. This is completely wrong. I oppose the amendment because I believe that the Australian people want to know and are entitled to know where the national Parliament stands on this issue, one of the most strongly debated issues that has ever been introduced into this Parliament. The issue is generally described as abortion on demand, or, in other words, where an abortion for any reason is made legal on request without any regard to the rights of the unborn child. Unless the amendment is defeated this issue will not be decided in the clear cut manner in which I believe the majority of Australians want it to be decided. 
So far I have concentrated on showing that there is no need for this Bill or an amendment to it. No change in the law is necessary to enable a woman who has a justifiable case for abortion to have that abortion performed lawfully. But in this debate one cannot dodge the mora] issue involved. I would concede that the morals of the individual are a matter for the individual concerned, but the moral fibre of this nation is a matter which should seriously concern members of this national Parliament. Any person making a frank and honest assessment of the position must agree that there has been some drift, many would think a considerable drift, towards what is sometimes loosely called the permissive society. I submit that this drift has weakened and will continue to weaken the moral fibre of this nation. History consistently has shown that the downfall of countries has resulted from the lowering of the moral character of the community. We, in this Parliament today, have the opportunity to decide where we stand on national moral values and in protecting the unborn, helpless child. 
Let us reject completely the device of abortion on demand to solve the problem of unwanted pregnancies and concentrate on an educational system which alone offers real hope to the community and would make a real contribution to the strengthening of the character of our great Australian nation. I should have liked to have said much more, but I will limit my remarks at this time to opposing the amendment and the Bill in order to give other honourable members an opportunity to express their views. 
I rise this morning to refer to a matter on which I have spoken previously, that is, the agreement by the States of New South Wales and Queensland with the Commonwealth Government to construct what is known as the Pike Creek Dam. The latest information that I have had from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is that he expects that this matter will be coming before Cabinet. But we have heard nothing more from him on that matter. A report which appeared in a Sydney newspaper under the heading 'State Talks on New Dam', stated: 
New South Wales Minister for Conservation  Mr G.  F. Freudenstein said he was prepared to fly to Queensland to discuss proposals that the 2 States go ahead with a new border dam. 
He said that if the Commonwealth failed to meet one-third of the cost of the new dam at Pike Creek, he would take up the matter with his Queensland counterpart in an attempt to go ahead with the plan. 
We cannot afford to delay commencement of Pike Creek dam, recognised by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics as virtually guaranteeing the border region's economic security,' he said. 
The fact is that the State Governments and the previous Government agreed to build the dam, a tender was approved and work should have started on 2nd April,'  Mr Freudenstein  said. 
This is a matter of very great concern to the people of the area. I rise again to urge this Government to make a decision on the project and to honour the undertaking that was given by the previous Government in that regard. I feel that the delay in this matter is something that every honourable member on both sides of the House must regard as being contrary to the best interests of the people in both States, and particularly, of course, the people of the border area. 
This matter was fully investigated by both States. Indeed, a delay was occasioned by the previous Commonwealth Government which wanted to make a further investigation before it would agree to the project. Therefore I urge the present Government not to go back on that agreement, but to honour the agreement which was given, to allow the work to proceed and not to throw the whole weight of this project on the shoulders of 2 State governments. The Commonwealth Government is not adopting this line of thinking with the Dartmouth Dam or with the works on the Murray River. But, of course, it is a different matter in the case of Queensland and northern New South Wales. I am gravely concerned that the Commonwealth will back out of this agreement. If the Commonwealth does not intend to honour the agreement I think it is up to it to say what it is going to do because, as was mentioned by the New South Wales Minister for Conservation, it is time that the work was proceeded with. 
I have received telegrams and representations from people in the border area saying how vital it is that work should proceed because this is the time of the year in which it is most advantageous to do the work. Work done on the Condamine River in Queensland by the Chinchilla Shire Council during spring which was thought to be a good time of the year was damaged seriously by floods. The Pike Creek dam project will not cost the Commonwealth Government very much in comparison to its commitments to other projects because the cost will be shared with 2 State governments. We should not let the Pike Creek dam project fail because this Government is too miserly to come into a water conservation project which, as I say, has been approved not by one, not by 2, but by 3 governments. 
I want to use the Pike Creek dam project as an example of what is happening in Queensland as far as the Commonwealth 
Government is concerned. Queensland is not getting a reasonable deal from the Commonwealth Government and I can give plenty of examples of this. One instance is Queensland's international airport. Every person in Queensland I believe feels very sincerely that this Government intends to delay that projectOther States have their international airports, but not Queensland. Is this because the Premier of Queensland has been a very good Queenslander and has stood up for the rights of that State against this Government despite the intimidation that has been thrown against him by this Government? He has stood his ground and I give him credit for it. 
I agree with my friend, the honourable member for Calare. The Premier of Queensland deserves that credit. I have been surprised and very disappointed that Queensland members in this House have been prepared to take him to task for defending the State rights of Queensland. He has now shown that his stand has been a correct one because the Premiers of all States are now recognising the disadvantage they are suffering under this Government and that Queensland is not the only State that is being affected. The lead that has been given by a very great Queenslander in Jo Bjelke-Petersen has been taken up by the other Premiers. 1 would now like to refer to the kangaroo industry in Queensland and the benefits that the State derives from that industry. 1 want to emphasise at the outset that 1 am a believer in sensible conservation. A House of Representatives select committee made up of members from both sides of this House which was chaired by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  who demonstrated to the Parliament his concern about the need to make sure that the kangaroo population is maintained, has investigated this matter. The fauna conservation authorities in Queensland whose job it is to make sure that the kangaroo population is maintained in that State and which would have no axe to grind, have estimated that we could harvest up to one million kangaroos in that State without jeopardising the maintenance of our kangaroo population. At the moment the number harvested! is something like 600,000. 
Action taken by Ministers of this Government in regard to the kangaroo industry demonstrates that they are prepared 13369/73 - il - 187) to take action which will be to the disadvantage of Queensland. People in the areas where this industry is operating have experienced one of the severest droughts on record with consequent low wool prices. The people whom this Government supposedly represents who are working in the industry are being swept aside because someone who calls himself a conservationist feels he knows more about this matter than do those who gave evidence to the House of Representatives Select Committee. Evidence was given to that Committee by officers of the Wildlife Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and many others, but there is a continual scream about the conservation of kangaroos. 
Regional development is proposed on the border of New South Wales and Victoria, but what about regional development in Queensland? Words alone are all that Queensland gets. There is no indication that there will ever be a start on regional development in that State. Last, but not least, I refer to the desertion by the Commonwealth Government of Queenslanders and Queensland territory in the Torres Strait Islands north of Queensland. The Queensland Premier again is winning a lone-handed battle. He has been denigrated by supporters of the Government who try to suggest that he does not know his job, but the Torres Strait Islanders know and only the day before yesterday in Brisbane they demonstrated their support of what the Premier is doing. But what of the Commonwealth Government? It was prepared, beyond any doubt in my opinion, to allow these islands to be taken from the Commonwealth of Australia and from the State of Queensland. If it had not been for the courageous efforts of Jo Petersen I believe that would have happened already. 
So we find that continuously Queensland is suffering severely under this Commonwealth Government. There is severe discrimination against Queensland. In fact there is what I might describe as a peacetime Brisbane line, even though the benefits of the proposed Pikes Creek dam would flow beyond the State boundary. That dam would be of great advantage to the area. I pay a tribute to Jo Petersen for the way in which he has stood up for the rights of Queensland and for State rights generally against a centralist government which is prepared constantly to defer - I use that word because it cannot be said that it will not do anything - work on this important project. However, the stage at which that work will proceed is not known. Queensland is suffering severely from what I would regard as discrimination against worthwhile projects in that State and the sooner the Commonwealth Government is defeated to allow the State to make the progress it can make, and is entitled to make, the better it will be for everyone in Queensland. 
In speaking to this Bill I would just like to make one of two comments on the contribution made by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  I will try to be fair and reasonable in replying to what he said. The honourable member claimed that once we resolved sovereignty with regard to submerged lands the other problems would resolve themselves. The honourable member said that once we resolved this everything else would fall into line. I think that is a very optimistic view to take. I do not agree with him at all. But at the same time I do accept the fact that this is a situation which does need to be resolved. I think the argument has been put by some members of the Opposition, including my friend the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  that it should be resolved in a different way from that which has been suggested by the Government. 
The other point I wanted to make - and I am sorry that the honourable member for Macarthur is not now in the House - relates to his comment that the Queensland Government has shown that it is not prepared to act nationally m regard to New Guinea. In point of fact the position is the direct opposite. The Queensland Government was prepared to act nationally. It was prepared to act nationally insofar as the preservation of the rights of Queensland and Australian citizens was concerned. It was prepared to act nationally as far as the preservation of Queensland and Australian land was concerned. There is certainly a very big difference between the view that the honourable member for Macarthur holds on this matter and that held by me and also, I believe, many other members of this House. 
I would also like to make some comment on what the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  who is not in the House at the moment, had to say. The honourable member said that the State Labor Premiers will - he hoped - see the error of their ways. I just wonder what makes him confident that they will and also why they made errors in the first place. I wonder whether it will be that the real rulers of the Australian Labor Party - the Australian Council of Trade Unions - will crack the whip on them and this might make them change their minds. I just wonder at the reason for the confidence that was expressed in that view and whether in fact that change will take place. The honourable member said also that the Premier of Queensland was disowned - I am speaking from memory - by every practical politician in that State. The honourable member did not look very far into the article which he quoted earlier from the 'Courier-Mail'. Let me also quote from today's 'Courier-Mail' which states that a motion was carried in support of the Premier's stand, that the motion that it be carried with acclamation was moved and was carried unanimously. The Press article is headed: 
The joint Government parties yesterday unanimously carried a motion commending the Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  on his fight for State rights. 
Not only was it carried unanimously but also it was carried in an unusual way with an enthusiasm expressed by acclamation. I think that this certainly refutes the argument put up by the honourable member for Bowman. I should like to read the motion. It states: 
That this joint meeting of Country Party and Liberal Members commend the Premier for his untiring efforts and statesman-like attitude in placing before Australians in the strongest possible terms, Queensland's sovereign rights and privileges in any CommonwealthState relations'. 
The motion added the words: 
We also appreciate the steps the Premier has taken to initiate and safeguard our interests in London.' 
So there is certainly unanimity on the part of Government supporters in Queensland in favour of the strong action that the Premier of that State has taken in this regard. There are a few points that I want to make on comments made by the honourable member for Farrer. He pointed out, as I said, that there are  2  ways in which this matter can be approached. One is to legislate and wait for a challenge and the other is to try to reach an agreement. Very rightly and, I would say, nationally, he spoke of the value of first trying to reach an agreement as was reached in relation to the off-shore petroleum arrangements. I want to repeat because I think it is worth repeating the words he uttered about the ominous phrase that was used in the second reading speech of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  when he said that off-shore petroleum arrangements will continue 'for the present time'. That certainly indicates that the arrangements will not continue for very long. It must have been put in there for that very reason. I can see no other reason why it should have been put in there. I, too, agree that there will be constant litigation, as the honourable member for Farrer said, if this Bill goes through. He pointed out, and I agree with him, the great number of legal problems that can exist. I also agree with him - I am in pretty full agreement with his address - that it would be in the best interests of the nation if this Bill were withdrawn. 
Earlier in this debate the right honourable (member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  said that the Commonwealth now has power to deal internationally and if there is any inconsistency between State law and Commonwealth law the Commonwealth law will prevail. Certainly the Commonwealth has the power to deal internationally. That is one thing that can be said. Indeed it has done so. There was no objection by the State of Western Australia whose Premier, unless the whip is cracked, will go over with the other Premiers to discuss this matter in London. There was no disagreement or objection by him as far as I know when the boundaries between Australia and Indonesia were decided by the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Indonesia. That is the way that this matter should be approached. I am sure that the States will accept reasonable international agreements without question. 
In addition to what I have already said I want to point to some of the problems that do exist. I am speaking now in regard to a second reading speech on a Bill presented in 1970 when  Mr Swartz  was the Minister for National Development. He said: 
The exercise by any State - that is to say any country - of sovereign legislative authority and propriety rights beyond its land territory is part of its international relations. 
The States are sovereign States, so there is an area of doubt in this matter. It is an area of doubt which in all common sense should be resolved if at all possible by negotiation and consultation with the States. He went on further to talk at some length and referred to the 4 conventions which were adopted at the United Nations conference on the law of the sea in Geneva in 1958. These conventions were adopted by the Australian Government and the States did not take exception to this action. I think that on top of what other speakers have said this should be sufficient to indicate the great area of doubt and the need to try to resolve that doubt. It should give us some confidence to think that the doubts can be resolved when, as the honourable member for Farrer said, the negotiations resulted in agreement in regard to the off-shore petroleum leases and petroleum rights. If they can be resolved, I am sure the other can. But it cannot be done in a hurry. It is not easy to achieve results in this area in a short time. 
It has long been claimed in this House that it will be in the national interest to have the legal position concerning the control of resources of the seabed off the Australian coast resolved. In that respect I certainly agree that this is what should be done. I do not think that anyone would doubt that. I fully accept that the question of sovereignty should be determined. The only question and argument I believe is how it should be determined. I ask why can we not have this consultation with the States and why cannot we have co-operation with them? We have done it before in regard to the exploiting of the resources of off-shore Australia. Why can we not offer generous royalty distributions to the States in our negotiations which we did in the case of off-shore petroleum? One thing that is acting detrimentally towards an achievement of this goal has been the characteristic of this Government to centralise authority to the detriment of the States and this has aggravated the feeling between the Commonwealth and the States. If there is one thing that is detracting from resolving these difficulties it is the actions of the present' Commonwealth Government in its relations with the States. 
To say that progress and consultation with the States has not been successful in the past anyhow is no excuse for not endeavouring to take this action in the future because that is the way in which it can best be resolved. I am not suggesting that these negotiations should go on indefinitely, but I believe that a reasonable time should be given so that the States can have the opportunity of putting up their case to the Commonwealth Government and the Commonwealth Government to present its case to the States. What is more, in a matter of this importance I believe that the Commonwealth Parliament is entitled to know what sort of offer has been made to the States. I certainly will be interested to see what the suggestions are because it is on that basis that we will be able to judge whether the States have been unreasonable in their dealings with the Commonwealth. Why not adopt a reasonable approach to .the States in regard to the exploitation of these other resources and endeavour to reach an agreement with the States? We - should determine what authority each government should exercise and how it should be exercised. 
I submit that very special consideration should be given to the rights of Queensland. Queensland has, indeed, very special circumstances. I make no apology whatever for talking as a Queenslander. I completely refute the suggestion that one can talk as a Queenslander and not be talking as an Australian or that what is not good for Queensland is not good for Australia. In a large percentage of cases what is good for Queensland and what is good for any other State is good for the Commonwealth of Australia. It is complete hogwash . for anyone to get up in this House and suggest that because one has some loyalty to one's own State one has not loyalty to the Australian nation. I said that Queensland has special circumstances. One of these special circumstances, as has been mentioned in the speech by the honourable member for Macarthur who has just spoken, is the Great Barrier Reef. A very large proportion of the Barrier Reef is under water at high tide. A smaller proportion of the Barrier Reef is above water at high tide and this forms the islands which the Queensland Government has control over. Where is the line of demarcation or control of conservation of the Barrier Reef? This is another angle in addition to those mentioned by the honourable member for Farrer which has to be decided. I certainly believe it reasonable and common sense that in dealing with conservation of the Great Barrier Reef the one authority should be able to exercise control in that direction. Since the Queensland Government will have control of those islands surely it should have the right, with Commonwealth assistance, to conserve this great national asset of ours. 
There is another angle of special importance to my own State of Queensland, and that is the Torres Strait islands. We know the problems that have existed there. They have been mentioned earlier in this debate. I say that negotiations should take place on this matter between the Commonwealth and the States, and particularly the State of Queensland because of the special problems that exist there. But that does not mean that negotiations cannot take place with all the States. I am not suggesting that at all. Is it not possible to arrive at some sort of sensible agreement with the States? I believe it is. I do not believe that all the brains of this country are concentrated in this Parliament. I believe that there are men of high integrity and great national loyalty in our State Parliaments who will stand comparison with the members of this Parliament. I suggest that we do not get a body of people such as the whole of a government of a State and say that they are not prepared to look at anything from a national point of view. I refute that suggestion. Even in this Parliament we have had one ex-Prime Minister taking one point of view and another ex-Prime Minister taking another point of view. I respect the views of both of these men. But this demonstrates the great difficulties that are posed by this problem. 
There are a number of other matters I want to mention. However, I want to say that it must be recognised that if the Commonwealth takes authority from the low water mark it is obvious that there will have to be co-operation with the States. Why not try to get this co-operation before this Bill is passed? Let us start that co-operation now between this Federal Government and the States and endeavour to resolve the problems that obviously exist. One would think that the Commonwealth Government would not have the same authority over the continental shelf as it has over the mainland. This is the impression that I have received from some of the speeches that have been made. Some honourable members have suggested that the Commonwealth Government will have no authority over those areas. 1 believe that the Commonwealth would have the same authority over those areas where it exerts authority as it has today. Because it has, the important matters that have to be dealt with by the Commonwealth can be dealt with at the present time. 
As I mentioned before, the Commonwealth Government is quite competent to negotiate international agreements as it did in the negotiations which it carried out with Indonesia. It should be of some concern to all honourable members of this Parliament that all the State governments as far as we know at present are looking for advice as to their position in regard to the continental shelf. Why should they not get that advice? Why should they not come to the negotiating table with the maximum of qualified advice available ro them? I believe that they should also come to the negotiating table determined to try to resolve the position in a national way. So let us have a look at the offer which the Commonwealth Government is prepared to make to the States and in the light of that information let us in this Parliament decide whether or not the States have had the treatment that they are entitled to expect from this Commonwealth Parliament. 

 Mr KEOGH (Bowman)-  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The Bill before the House, as was mentioned in the second reading speech, is designed to amend the Wool Industry Act to incorporate the arrangements to apply in 1973-74 for the financing of wool research and promotion, and to meet the cost of the administering and marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. There have been a lot of comments tonight on the whole ambit of wool marketing and its possibilities of the future. I believe that there has been fairly general agreement about the desirability of those advancements. There is little doubt that these advancements will be made. The pioneering stage or selling by sample will lead finally to selling by description. I do not think we need waste a great deal of time in developing an argument of that kind. The point about which I am concerned is a very important one. Wool selling methods have been developed in such a way that success will be achieved. 
This Bill deals with the amount of funds that are made available for the purposes I have mentioned. The part that concerns me very much is the fact that the Government has decided that it will reduce the amount of money that it makes available at a time when the industry has just come out of one of its most difficult periods. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  in his second reading speech said that the Government decided that the only course it could justify in the current circumstances was to adopt measures to apply for 1973-74 only. What are the current circumstances which would allow for that or make it necessary? Does it mean that the Government will go out of office and leave the new LiberalCountry Party Government to deal with the subsequent years? Why is it needed for only one year? 
The Bill mentions as one of the reasons the difficulties arising from the inescapable increases in salaries and other costs which become more uncertain the further ahead programs are planned. What a weak excuse that is for not proceeding to plan along the lines that are needed if we are to have forward planning. Does this not also mean that these increased costs will have to be faced by the wool grower? It is not only a matter of the difficulties the Government will face as a result of these increased costs. There is no concern on the part of the Government for the worries of the wool grower; but, if there is any problem in relation to what the Government has to do, that is a matter of very serious concern. So we find, as we have found so many times in the short history of the present Government, that it has very little concern for the problems of primary producers. 
I emphasise again that the Government takes no account at all of the position with which wool growers would be faced when making their contribution should there, unfortunately, be any serious decline in the wool market. The wool industry has demonstrated that at last it has achieved the success that many of us felt it would achieve as a competitive fibre in the world textile market. That success has come mainly as a result of government and industry financial commitments to the wool industry for research and promotion. If the finance that has been provided for research and promotion is of the value I believe it to be, it certainly should be continued. Why should it be reduced at a time when it is proving its worth in maintaining stability in the strongest export income earning industry in the Commonwealth today? 
One of the major shortcomings of the Bill is that it allows for this Government and industry commitment for only one year. The Minister for Northern Development is an agricultural scientist, as are others who have spoken in this debate tonight. I ask him whether he can name one rural research project of major complexity which could be funded and completed successfully in one year without some contingency planning for natural setbacks or the need for the research program to be undertaken for a longer period than one year. I think the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  said that no other industry has received this type of support. No other industry has provided for this country the amount of export income that the wool industry has provided. 
The Bill also provides for a significant increase in grower contributions without any form of regulatory mechanism to help growers out of their increased commitment should there be a sustained depression in the wool market. It is a one-sided operation, with concern only for what the Government might have to provide and with no concern for what the industry might have to face. It is a Bill designed to skim the cream off the wool market for the Government at a time when the industry is recovering from its worst recession and is making plans to put itself on a more secure footing. The Government's attitude demonstrates very clearly its lack of understanding of primary industries generally and the wool industry in particular. This industry has suffered extremely low prices over a number of years, lt has suffered drought for years on end and, in some parts of my electorate, there has been up to 10 years of drought. Yet, immediately there is a rise in the price of wool and some return to favourable seasonal conditions, the Government wants to take from the industry an increasing amount to finance this research program. The research program and the wool promotion program not only will help the people who are engaged in the industry but also will be of benefit, through the improvement in the finance obtained by the industry, to the whole of the Commonwealth. We should keep that in mind. 
In his second reading speech the Minister drew attention to the fact that prices have recovered to relatively high levels and the value of wool production has risen to an estimated $ 1,329m in 1972-73 from $664m in the previous year. That simply demonstrates the value of this industry to Australia. My time is limited and 1 am trying to make the most of it by taking out those points that I feel should be stressed. Reference was made to rural reconstruction. I point out that in many areas rural reconstruction is still necessary. One of the reasons why it is necessary is that, as the prices of wool have increased and the wool industry has become more prosperous, the cost of restocking has become very high. Many people are still having the gravest difficulty in getting back on their feet, even with the assistance of rural reconstruction. I know of cases where it has been found that, because of the higher costs of stock for restocking, the growers do not have the capacity to service the debts. 
The wiping off of this difficulty immediately it rains or immediately there is some increase in prices shows in clear relief the lack of understanding that is so constantly and so characteristically associated with the attitude of the Government towards the wool industry in particular and towards primary industries in general. The Government says that the Bill provides for a reasonable balance. What sort of a reasonable balance is it when viewed against the background of what I have already said? The amount of tax also has been increased, as was admitted by the Minister in his second reading speech. Currently a tax of one per cent is imposed on all shorn wool and a levy of 4 per cent is collected on all wool sold at auction. Where there is no provision for a lower amount, the tax is to be increased to 3 per cent; but where the provision has been made there will be a rise from 1.4 per cent to a total of 2.4 per cent. These continual cost increases are being loaded on to our primary industries at a time when they are really struggling to get back on their feet after one of the most severe times they have ever experienced. 
I emphasise that the drain on finances that is caused by the extra contribution that is now required by the Government makes that return to reasonable prosperity ever so much harder. This demonstrates not only the lack of understanding but also the lack of sympathy of the Government towards primary industries in general and, on this occasion, the wool industry in particular. We should never forget the great contribution made over the years to the national economy by the wool industry even when it was struggling. Recovery does not happen overnight. I want to compare the attitude of this Government with that of the previous Government which was prepared to provide, instead of the $22m that this Government is providing, no less than $33.2m in 1973-74, $38m in 1974-75 and $4 1.8m in 1975-76. That is the sort of contribution that would have helped this industry and would have helped the promotion of the industry through the Australian Wool Corporation. As far as primary industry is concerned, this Bill represents the only type of treatment we can expect to receive from this Government. 
As has already been said, Australian Country Party members support the Bill. There is a need for the mothers concerned to be provided with the benefits contained in the Bill, Those benefits will give the supporting mother the assistance necessary to engage her to provide for the children under her care and control. While commending the Bill, however, let me also say that the previous Government recognised the need for improved social service benefits generally and it backed up this recognition by increases in social services benefits over a period of years. When the Social Services Bill (No. 4) was introduced in September 1972 by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  it was the fourth separate occasion on which the rates of pension had been raised by the Liberal-Country Party Government over the previous 18 months. That shows how interested the previous Government was in social services benefits. 
Another factor of interest is that the level of purchasing power of the standard rate of pension was increased very considerably. In fact, from the time when the previous change of government took place until the LiberalCountry Party Government went out of office it was almost doubled. One should also recall that the previous Government commissioned a family research project through the Commonwealth Department of Social Services with the full support and co-operation of the State departments. This project arose from the longstanding and widespread concern of the then Government, voluntary agencies and the community generally about the increasing number of deserted wives and unmarried mothers seeking assistance. Therefore, to this extent, there was some degree of unanimity of opinion in regard to this assistance which has been brought to fruition under this Bill. It was realised that the family research project would have great significance in developing in Australia a social services system which was fully balanced, efficient and humane. That was the objective of the previous Govern ment. I hope that it will be the objective of this Government, because the under-privileged section of our community needs very serious consideration. The fact that the research project was undertaken proves indisputably that had the Liberal-Country Party Government been returned to office it would have introduced pensions for the categories now catered for in the Bill. 
One of the problems that confronts pensioners and people with fixed incomes is inflation. No category of people in the community suffers more than do the pensioners from the problems created by inflation. The big difference between the benefits provided by the present Government and the benefits that would have been made available by the Liberal-Country Party Government is in that field. The benefits provided by this Government will undoubtedly be eroded rapidly as inflation gathers momentum, as it surely will under the present Government's reckless spending and irresponsible approach to the provision of a sound economy. This angle must be kept under observation and consideration by the Government in power to ensure that the pensioners of this country are not disadvantaged by the inroads of inflation on the pensions provided for them. If this is to be done in a satisfactory way it will require a constant supervision of the total pension position. 
I would have liked to go more deeply into the remaining categories where pensions could be provided. I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has said that this is a beginnig. I am sure that it will not be the end of consideration of pensions. Whilst 1 welcome the Bill, I trust that this consideration will continue to be given to pensions, both in relation to their purchasing power and in relation to increasing the standard of living of pensioners compared with the general standard of living in the community. I think that this is a reasonable approach to take. It is an approach that gives a fair balance between what is reasonable for the community to provide and what is necessary for the pensioners if they are to enjoy that standard of living which I am sure most of us would agree, and which I certainly uphold, should be provided for the pensioners of this country. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hansen)  adjourned. 
This Bill is designed to provide 12 weeks' maternity leave on full pay for Commonwealth Government employees. The Australian Country Party accepts the position as outlined by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  when he spoke on behalf of the Opposition, that these benefits are provided for Commonwealth employees to enable them to prepare on full pay for confinement and to have some 6 weeks on full pay following the birth of the child to make satisfactory arrangements for a return to work. Because of these purposes we do not oppose the Bill. There is every justification for providing these benefits. By all means let us give adequate assistance to pregnant women in the period prescribed in the Bill. But let these benefits be spread over all our pregnant women who need and deserve such assistance and not merely over the privileged section of the work force as defined in this Bill. 
My concern is not that the benefits are being provided for Commonwealth employees but that only Commonwealth employees will enjoy these benefits. Following the very substantially improved benefits proposed for Commonwealth employees under the Compensation Bill, it is fair, I believe, to ask the question: Does this Government intend to make one section of the work force a very privileged section of the community and disregard the claims of other sections of the work force for similar benefits? I submit that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Government are showing no concern for employees outside the Public Service as far as this benefit is concerned. That is clear from the remarks contained in the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill, which I can quote. This remark came as a result of question by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The Minister said: 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked whether there would be any flow-on. The answer is no, there cannot be a flow-on to private employers. It is impossible to have a flow-on. Indeed, if any attempt were made to bring about a flow-on to private employers as a consequence of this, the Government would oppose it. If the matter came before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Government would be prepared to intervene  and  officially to oppose  it. 
That is the point that he was emphasising. The honourable member for Phillip said that he would come to some point in reply to an interjection, but we did not hear much about it, although he did mention the International Labour Organisation. However I shall continue with the quotation from the Minister's second reading speech. He continued: 
It would be contrary to the ILO Convention. It would be something which would be detrimental, I would think, in the long run, to employees themselves if it did flow on. The short answer to the interjection which, in a way, I am glad the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made, is that there will no flow-on to private employers. 
I think that surely must clearly demonstrate that the Government is not concerned with the employees or women generally outside the Commonwealth Public Service in the provision of these benefits. I believe that this blatantly discriminatory attitude against the work force outside the Public Service is to be deplored. Despite what the Minister said I consider that maternity benefits should be paid to all women who need and deserve them. A scheme should be established through contributions by industry and the Government which would enable this to be done in a way which would have the least detrimental effect on the economy. 
This brings me to a particularly important aspect of the benefits to be provided for the work force generally. The fact is that we must have a priority of application of benefits. We have to create those benefits and maintain them within the limits of sound economic principles. I also consider that a much more equitable method of providing maternity allowance would be to make that allowance at the same rate to all women who are in need of it rather than at a rate determined by the actual rate of pay received by the woman involved. The provisions in the Bill would obviously favour a woman receiving a higher rate of pay by comparison with a woman on a lower rate of pay. Surely this is the type of principle the Government has been advocating down the years. Yet when it has the opportunity to implement such a policy it does not. It neglects this opportunity. I see that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is nodding agreement to this proposition. 
An extremely important adjunct to maternity allowances for those mothers who want to resume work is the provision of more child minding centres. I know that this has been mentioned previously, but this aspect of the problem of working mothers must be resolved in order to enable them to come back into employment after they have received the benefits set out in this Bill. Because this factor apparently has not been taken into consideration it draws attention to the ad hoc piecemeal approach to legislation which provides benefits to sections of the community. It is a careless approach to an important aspect of government. It is careless to the point of irresponsibility. This irresponsibility is highlighted by the fact that, as was mentioned previously by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, no mention has been made of the cost to the taxpayers to provide the benefits envisaged by this Bill. 
I do not believe that we would necessarily reject a proposal because of the costs involved, but if we are to debate any Bill adequately - I mentioned this previously in the debate on the Compensation Bill - I think we should have some assessment of the cost of the proposals. Irrespective of whether there is some cost saving in relation to the reemployment of women who had been in employment, the cost to the taxpayers should be plainly spelt out. I believe that the Government should be condemned for not going more deeply into this aspect so that the Parliament could consider it. A figure of $3. 3m was revealed to the Parliament only as a result of questions asked by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I say again that this is something of which I believe the Gov. cernment will have to take cognisance. I appeal to the Government when it brings down measures to give more consideration to what the cost will be to the taxpayers so that the Parliament and the people will know just what amount of money will be involved. I repeat, because I do not want that remark thrown back at me, that we on this side of the House would not be prepared to reject a measure simply because it was costly, but I think it is fair enough to say that we should know what the cost to the taxpayers will be. 
Surely it is not too much to expect that any government will give an outline of the proposal to provide benefits and the order of priority in giving those benefits. In other words, we want a planned approach to the provision of benefits and we want to know the cost of each of them so that we can get an idea of what sort of benefits are most needed, what the cost will be overall and how funds will be provided to meet the costs. This would give members of the Parliament an opportunity to evaluate all the proposals in relation to the overall effect on the economy. Whether we like it or not, whatever benefits are provided should be in accordance with the funds which are available to meet the cost of providing them. We cannot just hand out benefits. Probably we would all like to do that. We must relate benefits to keeping the economy on a sound basis. Surely this need not be emphasised very greatly in the tight of world conditions which exist today. We have seen m recent times the examples of economies m countries which have disregarded those principles. They are in very real difficulties today. 1 venture to suggest that unless this Government takes more notice of the fundamental economic principles which apply world wide, our own Australian economy, sound as it is, may also get into, very real difficulty. The Australian economy was in a very sound condition when this Government took over, but its supporters do not tell us that although they are fond of saying what has happened over the past 23 years. 
I want to say in reply to the criticism which has flowed constantly from members of the Opposition that over the past 23 years the previous Government provided continuing benefits. Honourable members should look at the benefits which applied in 1949 and look down the years to see the continuing benefits which have been provided. When this Government goes out of office, despite whatever reckless spending it may have indulged in, there will still be a need for continuing benefits to be provided, and if the rate of inflation is to be overcome they will have to be provided at a faster rate than was ever previously considered to be necessary. This is the other factor to be taken into consideration when we are looking at how any measures that this Government brings down affect the economy because we cannot avoid inflationary problems. We cannot put our head in the sand in relation to that aspect. 
It is very easy for governments to hand out benefits without regard to economic consequences, but the cold hard facts are that unless inflation is controlled to some extent - and it can be controlled to some extent by limiting Government expenditure to a level indicated by the observance of sound economic principles - whether we like it or not the benefits provided under any of these types of measures will be rapidly eroded and we will have to start again to bring about a position which this Bill seeks to achieve. 
Another aspect of maternity allowances that seems to have been completely disregarded by the Government is the position of the nonworking mother or the average housewife, if one likes to put it that way. Surely there is justice in making allowance for the problems that maternity brings to this section of the community. The application of a standard rate of allowances, which I have mentioned previously, would simplify the provision of benefits to these deserving mothers. The Government should be looking at other measures, such as increasing child endowment to enable all children to have as near as possible equal opportunities to utilise whatever talents he or she may possess. Does the Government have no concern for the needs of farmers' wives and the wives of primary producers generally? Surely this is a very deserving section of the community. 
Only those people who have travelled through drought stricken areas when the great stress of economic hardship was added to the normal hardship of pregnant women and mothers generally would realise the difficulties which these women have had to face. Many of these women work under very difficult conditions, especially in times of drought, aggravated by low prices for products which so often precludes the employment of labour to carry out essential work for all categories of properties and primary producers generally. This is just another aspect of this matter which seems to me to have been completely overlooked by the Government. We can do a great deal more for them. If we provided maternity allowances at a standard rate for all people who could show that they needed and deserved them something could be done in this direction. That is the appeal I am making to the Government. 
I know that this Bill proposes to give a week's leave to the father. I believe that this is a desirable provision. I believe that in many cases where the mother has to go into hospital it is necessary for the father to take care of the children. I do not object to the provision of a week's leave for the father. I believe that this is desirable, but at the same time I mention that, whether or not these things are to be provided in preference to other benefits being made available, we should bear in mind that we have to keep those benefits within the limits of a reasonable economy. These are the sorts of things that we have to take into consideration. Insofar as allowing a father to have a week's leave to care for his children, I do not object to this provision as such. 
I point out that all these things are at cost to the community and as such they have to be taken into consideration. I have covered most of the ground that I wanted to deal with in connection with this Bill. As I said, we on the Opposition side, which includes the Country Party, are not going to oppose this Bill because of the benefits that it will bring to that section of the community which we serve. But I draw attention to the fact that this Bill does not give benefits even to more deserving people who could have been provided for if the Government had given consideration, which I thought it would give to the rest of the community as well as Commonwealth Government employees. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
'Has the Minister for Urban and Regional Development had discussions with the appropriate State Ministers on the type of regional organisation that would meet Commonwealth requirements for the purposes of access to the Grants Commission? Will the Federal Government accept the regional organisations already established in New South Wales under the Regional Organisation Act and the regional organisations envisaged in Queensland as meeting Commonwealth Government requirements for that purpose? Finally, will the Federal Government have any consultation with the States concerning applications by approved regional authorities prior to accepting or declining any such application? 
I thank the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  for allowing me to say a few words at this late stage in the debate. I also thank my colleague the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  for limiting his remarks. My colleague has drawn attention to some of the factors related to employment in electoral offices. I have a question or two to ask the Minister about that aspect. The honourable member for Mallee mentioned that there does not seem to be a great deal of opportunity for advancement and promotion in the Electoral Office. As 1 understand it - and I would like the Minister's confirmation - employees of the Electoral Office have an opportunity to transfer to another department. I ask the Minister whether any disadvantages would apply in such transfers in addition to the advantages which have been enumerated by previous speakers in this debate. 
I join with previous speakers in appreciation of the work that has been done by divisional returning officers and their staffs. The honourable member for Mallee referred to the staff in his divisional electoral office. In the divisional office in my electorate a problem arose at the last election because of flooding. The staff there went to no end of trouble and were subjected to a great deal of strain in deciding whether the election should be held on the scheduled day in that division. The divisional returning officer earned great credit for himself, his staff and the temporary staff in seeing that the election was conducted so efficiently. 
My concern is limited to asking a question of the Minister. Are there any disadvantages in respect of promotions or transfers which will apply to the staff of the Electoral Office working in a statutory body as compared with the present position? As the honourable member for Mallee has pointed out, prospective staff for these offices, in view of the slowness of advancement, could be deterred from joining the Electoral Office if they were to be confined to a particular office. Is there a right of appeal against appointments related to the change? I welcome the upgrading of the Electoral Office and commend the Minister for it. I would be pleased to have his advice about any disadvantages which may accrue and whether provision should be made to eliminate any that do arise. In this way the type of staff that we all want to see working in the Electoral Office generally would be encouraged to join that organisation. 
I rise tonight to draw attention to a few matters that I feel should be ventilated. Firstly, I refer to cash on delivery charges on articles sent through the Post Office. I do not know for how long the present rate of charges has applied, and I do not suggest that it has changed in recent times. In other words I am not blaming the present Government for the matter about which I am concerned but nevertheless it should be looked at. Since a royal commission is being conducted into the affairs of the Post Office, although evidence has closed I hope that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  might look into the matter or perhaps even include it for consideration by the royal commission. 
The case drawn to my attention involves an order for 4 small special screws for a power drill. Their size was  inch by 7/32 inch, special thread. They were unobtainable in Queensland. This is another matter about which 1 wish to speak. I regret that so often people have difficulty in getting parts for all types of machinery. These small screws for a power drill were unobtainable. The agent offered to get them up from the South. They arrived In Brisbane and were posted up to my constituent c.o.d. The actual cost of the screws was 24c. The c.o.d. charges that the constituent had to pay when he received the screws were 72c. This seems a pretty severe charge to be placed on a small item which was so light that it required only a 7c stamp to mail it. 
That could well be. I know that there would be some cost related to registering this item and perhaps giving a receipt but it seems excessive to me that an item which cost 24c and which was posted in a very light packet which cost only 7c to post should attract a c.o.d. charge of 48c. I am pleased that the Postmaster.General is in the House tonight. I put it to him that it is an excessive charge. We sometimes hear that the people in the cities are subsidising the people in the country. If the Post Office cannot make a profit in providing a c.o.d. service at that rate I am wondering what it would charge to make a profit. I believe that it is a little excessive and I would be pleased to have that matter investigated. 
Another point to which 1 draw attention is the general availability of spare parts for tractors and farm machinery. I have mentioned this matter in the House previously. When I mentioned it I put dealers on notice that if I were to get more complaints about modern machinery for which parts were not available I would name the firms concerned in this House. This is a pretty drastic action to take because it would be adverse publicity for such firms. I am not happy with the availability of parts for some tractors and farm machinery. I say again as a second warning that if firms are to provide machinery it is up to them to provide a fair and reasonable range of parts at consistent prices. 
Another complaint I received very recently was about a big variation in the prices charged for similar parts. I draw attention to it because this is one of the few ways in which people who feel that they are being victimised or excessively charged can have a chance of having their voices heard. I know that a committee has been appointed to review prices but that would probably take a fair amount of time to come into operation. At any rate, I am not going to wait for it. If my constituents are disadvantaged, as I feel they are, unreasonably in any way I am quite happy to ventilate the matter in this House. 
The committee of which the honourable member will be  chairman  may be able to deal with these things; I mention that in passing. I v/ill have a look at how the committee works and if it seems to be working satisfactorily I will be happy to make use of it. To give an example of the range in price and the very high increase that has occurred, I should like to cite just one case. The owner of a modern car of a popular make lost a hub cap which had to be replaced. He asked for a quote and the price given was $20 and some odd cents. A matter of only a week or two later a price was obtained from the same firm for the same type of hub cap and the price quoted was $30. It seems to me that the original price was fairly high anyway, but to think that it should be jumped up by that amount of money for that item seems again to be excessive. Perhaps I might keep the honourable member for Adelaide and his Committee busy with these sorts of complaints. 
The main reason I raise this is that I do not want to take any drastic action without giving some notice of it. I put all the people and firms concerned on notice that I certainly will be quite prepared to name them if I feel that there is any injustice being perpetrated. I want to see them keep their prices within reasonable limits. 
The other matter  1  want to raise tonight is a matter I have raised before, namely the Pike's Creek dam. I have mentioned this matter on a few occasions. The construction of this dam was an undertaking given by the previous Government. It was to be constructed in conjunction with the Governments of New South Wales and Queensland. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the House about this matter not long ago. Incidentally, I did tell the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  that I would be speaking on this subject tonight. The Prime Minister said that he hoped to be bringing this matter to the Parliament. I do not want to be unkind in any way, but I am becoming very concerned about what I feel is undue delay in bringing this project to fruition or in having a decision made on it. 
The Minister for Northern Development - I think he may have left the chamber, but I noticed that he was here earlier - complained recently about the progress in regard to some water conservation project in which he was interested. He said that he was disappointed that further progress had not been made. The Pike's Creek dam project had progressed quite far enough under the previous Government. I believe that the only reason legislation was not introduced to complete the project was that the previous Government was taking every care to see that a cost benefit analysis justified going on with the project. 
1  wonder how the honourable member who is interjecting would have felt when the Chowilla dam project was dropped and the Dartmouth project took precedence over it, if the Government had given an undertaking and had decided not to go on with it after the undertaking had been given? The  2  State governments concerned have undertaken a cost benefit analysis of the project. There was a further cost benefit analysis made by the Commonwealth after the one made in 1970. An environmental study also was made, I understand. Anyway, all these steps were taken to make sure that this was a worthwhile project. The honourable member who has interjected does not know anything about it anyway. He would be much better suited to stick to something he knows something about. Just because he happens to know about one investigation he regards himself as an expert in that field. There is no doubt that a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. The honourable member's remarks give a striking example of just how dangerous it is. He obviously does not know the full ramifications of this scheme at all. 
The point is that the decision to continue with this dam project is still being delayed. I hope that the Government will honour the undertaking. If we reach a stage where governments are not prepared to do that, it will be a sorry day for Australia. I believe that the New South Wales Minister concerned was prepared to consider with the Queensland Minister concerned whether the States could go it alone. That is how desperate they were. The delay has continued. It is becoming impracticable to go on with this project because of the time of year. I believe that there is a real obligation on the part of the Government to make a decision and to make it quickly. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In connection with the provision of the Miamba Telephone Exchange and the connection of 1 1 new subscribers and 41 existing subscribers, will he provide details of (a) the cost of the automatic exchange, (b) the cost of installing the exchange, (c) the length and type of cable used, (d) the cost per chain of laying the cable, (e) the cost of installation of telephones and (f) the place of manufacture of the equipment and cable. 
Was it decided that, despite the cost involved, this type of installation was the most desirable taking all factors into consideration including the future extension of STD facilities. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Does the Commonwealth Government intend to repudiate completely the undertaking given by the previous Government to share with the Governments of Queensland and New South Wales the cost of construction of Pike Creek Dam? Will the people on the border of New South Wales and Queensland, as well as other areas of the Commonwealth, share the more and better water that the Prime Minister talked about yesterday? If this undertaking by the Commonwealth Government is not to proceed, will any assistance be given to the State governments if they decide to proceed with this important part of an overall national water conservation program? If not, what proposed development schemes in southern Queensland in any field are likely to be given Commonwealth Government assistance, or are all proposed development projects in that area to be scrapped or deferred as far as the Commonwealth Government is concerned? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I also claim to have been misrepresented. In the 3 elections which I have contested in my electorate preferences have not been counted. Indeed, of the 4 Federal Country Party members in Queensland, three polled more than 50 per cent of the primary votes- and two polled more than 50 per cent of the electors enrolled. So, the -Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  should be more careful about the truth. We do not mind criticism of our Party if the person making it sticks to the truth. 
I acknowledge the comments made by the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  concerning my work in connection with isolated children. I am prepared to concede, as he asked me, that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  provided funds for this purpose. I should also like to say that the headquarters of the federal body of the isolated children's scheme is situated in the electorate of Darling. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and I have been together on deputations on this matter on a few occasions. We both agreed to keep above party politics. I should also like to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Darling for his co-operation. We introduced a deputation to the then Minister for Education,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, and to the shadow Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley.  They both agreed to assist isolated children. I am sure that had the former Government been re-elected it would have honoured its promise. I pay tribute to  Mr Beazley  for keeping his promise in this particular case. 
The only other point I wish to make with regard to statements made previously in this debate relate to the contribution made by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  The Minister said: 
. not one member of the Country Party has ever won more than SO per cent of the primary votes before being elected to this Parliament. Of course they get more than SO per cent after the distribution of preferences, but not one Country Party member has ever gained a majority on the first count. 
Those are the words he used, despite what he might have said tonight. If he tries to change the meaning of that statement I will challenge his right to do so and the people who are listening can judge from that who is right or who is wrong. That statement appears twice in Hansard and I have every confidence in Hansard. Not only is it in Hansard but it was reported in the same terms by the Press. The matter is up to the Minister. If he tries to change the meaning of his statement he will find that he will be challenged. 
As the honourable member suggests, the Hansard will have recorded it too. I believe that the Minister has not got out of it as nicely as he thought he was going to. 
I turn now to the Budget Speech. I believe that the greatest domestic disaster of the day, or at least the greatest next to this Labor Government, is the evil of inflation. It affects everybody to some extent but the hardest hit are the pensioners and other people on low incomes - the very people whom this Government has been claiming for 23 years that it would do so much for when it assumed office. They are now bitterly disillusioned. The Government gave a rise in pensions of $1.50 or about 7 per cent but with inflation rising at an estimated rate of 13 per cent per annum - it may be more according to some speakers - the pensioners are worse off than ever. By the time the next $1.50 is provided inflation will have taken a further toll of the purchasing power of the pension. So, while this Government is in office pensioners can expect their standard of living to deteriorate. By contrast, wealthy people who have large* assets in city real estate, for example, will not feel the pressures of uncontrolled inflation nearly so much because, as inflation increases, these assets will rise in value, although, as the share market demonstrates, they will not appreciate as much as those people might have hoped. The working people, and I mean those on wages and moderate salaries, business people in country towns, people on fixed incomes, primary producers who have to sell on world markets irrespective of the cost of production, as well as pensioners, are among those who will suffer most as a result of the inflation engendered by this highly inflationary Budget. 
There is no reward for thrift in this Budget. Those who saved during their lifetime to enable them to live on income from those savings find the value of their savings so eroded by inflation that their effort has not been worth while. Bad as the situation is now it will grow worse under the pressures engendered by this highly inflationary Budget. For the first time in the history of this country we have a tax on pensions. One can accept that age pensions paid to people on high incomes will be taxable, but, to reduce the tax rebate of $156 by 25c in the $1 for each $1 of taxable income when the taxable income reaches $2,236 or $43 a week shows very scant consideration for pensioners and others on the lower scale of income. I would have expected the tax rebate to be allowed in full to a much higher level of taxable income than the figure of $43 a week. I believe that pensioners should be given greater encouragement to supplement their pension income and so do something to offset the erosion of the purchasing power of their pensions by the frightening rapid increase in the rate of inflation now taking place. 
Listening to the almost deafening blare of trumpets by honourable members opposite when in Opposition, one would have expected that this Government would have shown a greater compassion to those Australians in greatest need. I refer to those people in  receipt of  social  security and welfare  benefits. What is the actual position? Under the previous Government - and I take the figures from Hansard of 21 August 1973 - the amount actually spent on social security and welfare benefits rose by $503.5m over the amount provided in the previous year whereas the estimated increase this year over the amount provided last year is only $339.5m - a very serious drop of some $64m or 33 per cent less than the increase provided last year over the preceding year. Those figures illustrate the action taken by the previous Government. 
There is further concrete evidence that the previous Government had a much greater concern for those in greatest need than has this Government. That concern was even greater than those figures imply because the amount allocated by the previous Government was from a total budgetary expenditure of almost $2,000m less than the estimated expenditure in this Budget. With an estimated expenditure of about $12,168m it is amazing to find that school children will be denied their free milk ration. I cannot understand why this should have been done. In the interests of the health of school children, if the supply of milk was to be discontinued it would have been appropriate if fruit juice had been supplied and the cost offset by the savings made as a result of the lifting of tax concessions on soft drinks containing fruit juice. This proposal would have had the added advantage of making free drinks available to- all schools and it would have been of real assistance to the hard pressed fruit industry. But this Government did not bother to do that. It took away the tax concessions but gave nothing in return. 
The Budget has shown this Government to be narrow minded, sectionally oriented and financially irresponsible. It has endeavoured to make savings at the expense of the low income earner. It has 'been very severe on businessmen in country towns Take country newspaper proprietors and newsagents for example. At the present time a newspaper weighing approximately 3 oz would cost 1.75c in postage. Under this Government's proposal the postage cost of that article in 1976 will be no less than 11c. This crushing burden of increased postage rates will affect newspapers in country areas and this could place many of them in financial jeopardy while the benefit to the Government will be comparitively small. Where the cost is passed on it will fall heavily on the shoulders of primary producers who are just recovering from a period of drought and low prices. 
Again dealing with country areas, the average increase in country telephone rentals is another example of the complete lack of understanding of or sympathy with the problems of primary producers and the elimination of taxation benefits comes into the same category. Is the Government completely unaware of the serious financial problems that primary producers have faced over recent years? Does it not know the need for rural reconstruction which was provided for by the previous Government, and which provision has been continued in a small way in this Budget? The present policy of this Government will do much to prevent primary producers from recovering to the extent that present prices and seasonal conditions would have ensured under the previous Government. But under this Government they will not be able to make that recovery. The narrowminded attitude of this Government contrasts sharply with the broad national outlook of the Country Party. To those who question the correctness of that statement let me refer to a sub-leader in the 'Courier-Mail' of 28 August 1973. I ask the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who is seeking to interject, to listen to this. The article is headed Tree Travel?'. I will only have sufficient time in this debate to read the first 3 paragraphs of this sub-leader. It reads: 
The proposal for free public transport in cities brought up again at the week-end by the Mines Minister  (Mr Camm)  has much to be said for it. 
The more that people are encouraged to use public transport, the less severe will be traffic congestion. 
Obviously, free public transport means a loss of revenue to Governments and their authorities, but savings could be made in the expensive business of constructing new road systems. 

 Mr Camm is the Country Party Minister for Mines and Main 'Roads in the Queensland Country Party-Liberal Government. This thinking on the part of a Country Party Minister, on a measure which would be of very great advantage to the people on the lower range of incomes in the city of Brisbane, highlights the same reasoning behind Country Party thinking in relation to services in rural areas. It should not be all important that every separate undertaking by the Government should be self-contained profitably. 
I would just like to refer to the position in relation to wheat. The present domestic price of wheat is $1.85 a bushel. I will take an export return f.o.b. of $3 a bushel - and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  only yesterday or the day before said that world prices for wheat had gone up to something like $3.80 - for the purpose of making a comparison. 
It is very conservative. The differential is obviously $1.15 a bushel. On the basis of home consumption amounting to 70 million bushels the saving to the consumer amounts to over $'80m. If the figure of $3 a bushel is conservative it may be that the saving to the consumer is closer to $100m. We can see what is being done on the one hand. Surely this Government does not intend to deprive those deserving people in rural areas of a telephone just because it is not economic to the Postmaster-General's Department. That is not the attitude that we took when we were in government over the years. The returns come in many different ways. 
The increase in petrol prices will fall more heavily on the shoulders of people in towns where no public transport is available than where alternative transport can be obtained. Every resident of a country town has to use petrol every time he or she moves outside his or her home and of course primary producers have to use petrol every time they move around their properties or in travelling to the towns which service them. I need hardly stress the inflationary effect of the rise in petrol prices and diesel fuel used for automotive purposes. One has only to travel on any main arterial road to realise the large tonnage of goods being transported by road and increased transport charges must have an inflationary effect on prices. 
This Government uses double standards. On the one hand it demands that as near as practicable every member in this House should represent the same number of electors irrespective of distance, isolation or sparsity of population, but when it comes to telephone rentals, for example, it does not accept the principle that for a similar rental each subscriber should have local call access to an equal number of subscribers irrespective of distance, isolation or sparsity of population. That is the sort of comparison that illustrates the absurdity of this Government's action in regard to electoral numbers. The Country Party does not argue that telephone services should be provided completely but there is certainly a very sound and reasonable basis for the concessions that were allowed by the previous Government to people in rural areas by way of lower phone rentals and indeed in taxation reductions. 
Let us look at the difference in the cost of installing a telephone in rural areas under this Government and the cost under the Liberal Country Party Government. The provision of a line for15 miles would have cost the subscriber nothing under the previous Government but under this Government the cost to the subscriber, if the line were installed by the PostmasterGeneral's Department, would be no less than $5,100 and that charge would increase at the rate of $510 for every mile beyond the 15mile radius, thereby placing essential telephone services beyond the financial circumstances of many rural residents. Is that the sort of thing that this Government wants? One of the most quoted passages of the scripture is where St Paul spoke of the three great virtues of faith, hope and charity and said that the greatest of these is charity. There was little charity in this Budget for residents living outside the metropolitan area and one might say that the three great scourges for people in these areas in recent years have been droughts, unprofitable prices and Labor governments and the greatest of these is the Labor governments, particularly this Labor Government. 
With apologies to Churchill let us beware of a society where no one counts unless he lives in a metropolitan area or in one of the few places chosen to become growth centres, and let us beware of a government such as we have now, so viciously biased in its policy and so ruthlessly determined to deprive people in rural areas and country towns of the few concessions they now enjoy. If it is the desire of this Government to concentrate even more people than ever in our capital cities, then it has in this Budget, a blueprint to achieve this objective, but what a tragedy this would be from a national point of view. Rarely in the history of national economic planning has so much been taken from one section of the community at one time. 
There are so many faults in this Budget that I will not have sufficient time in this debatetorefertoallthethingsIwouldlike to have raised. I cannot refer to all of the injustices of Black Tuesday but I would like to read a letter which was written by a child. It reads: 
Thank you,  Mr Crean  and Party, the country people get your message loud and clear we must be punished for daring to vote against you. 
You cannot quite starve us into submission, but crikey, you will have a good try. 
This is what we hear: 'You so-and-sos have to get most of your goods by post, so we'll put up the price of parcels. You have to get your newspapers and the magazines for the missus by post, so let's raise the postage there. You have to have the telephone for doctor as well as for business; we'll cut off the rental concession. 
Petrol is going to cost you so much more that you won't be able to spend any on social calls or neighbourly tennis matches' or children's sports. (But we must remember to make it easier for those good fellows in the cities to get to the races. That idea of free transport in the cities is a good one. You chaps out there can be slugged for a bit more tax to pay for that.) 
We won't let you send your children to the school of your choice, well, not unless you pay a lot extra for it. We won't have you giving your kids anything better than we give ours. 
If you grow fruit, we'll still get you. We'll cut off the tax exemption on fruit drinks. The doctors say it is healthful but the kids can drink the fizzy stuff instead.' 
Don't think that you can save tax by buying machinery for use on the property. There'll be no longer any more concessions for that sort of expenditure. We'll take one cent a pound on all meat you export, too. We are in the saddle; don't you forget it.' 
We have a few more little snags for you. It is a pity we won't have control of the State Railways. We could really do a complete job then. Make the most of the present; by this time next year you will be looking back on this year as a time of comparative easy conditions. Look out'! 
Yes  Mr Crean,  we understand, but every dog has his day. Yours will come 
I think that letter was well worded and worth reading. Never has a government come into office under more favourable conditions than did this Government. The economy was sound, business was thriving, world markets for most of our products were buoyant, Australia's standing internationally was high and seasonal conditions, after a long period of drought in many areas were in the main good. This Government had a golden opportunity to put up a good performance but never has such an opportunity been so incompetently handled and so ignominiously spoiled. It is scarcely credible that a government could damage such a sound economy so drastically in such a short time. It is scarcely credible that our international reputation could fall so far in so short a time. It is scarcely credible that under these conditions a government could lose the confidence of the people so dramatically in the course of a few short months. As clear evidence that this has happened I quote from an assessment of an 
Australian Nationwide Opinion poll which appeared in the 'Australian' of 25 August. The assessment stated: 
The main reasons for the Liberal Party's sharp gain in support appear to be the feeling that voters would be personally worse off and the fear of continuing price rises. 
Only 7 per cent thought they would be better off, compared with 42 per cent who said they would be worse off, 43 per cent no change and 8 per cent unsure. 
Only 16 per cent expected the economy to do better following the Budget while 58 per cent thought things would get worse or remain the same. 
Most voters (62 per cent) did not believe the Budget would 'be effective in curbing inflation and 22 per cent were unsure. 
Throughout the poll, the negative response from women was stronger than from men, reflecting the influence of the rising cost of living and its sharper impact on the housewife. 
I oppose the Budget and support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
 I support the proposal. As a member of the Committee I too have changed my views. I must compliment the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  on the modesty of his reply. But there were some changes and the movement of the route back from the cliffs made a difference to the general proposal. I rose mainly to support the suggestion of my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  that although this road is designed for 6 lanes perhaps it might well be kept to 4 lanes. It is true, as the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  the  Chairman  of the Committee, has pointed out, that this is not a highway but an arterial road and there is a speed limit on it. Nevertheless, this area is a very important part of Darwin and very scenic. It is desirable that it should be used as much as possible by the people. 
I believe that it will be made more accessible if the road is kept to 4 lanes. Alternatives 6 and 7 could be used to bring the traffic into the other end of Darwin. I am conscious too, as we all should be, that this has to be considered against the actual cost. It would cost considerably less to put the other 2 lanes along the route which is presently recommended. But at the same time, as the honourable member for Leichhardt rightly pointed out, there have been some faults in planning and I believe this is one thing that we could well look at. Maybe the extra cost involved could be justified in diversifying the approach of traffic into the city of Darwin, which no doubt will continue to grow. I commend the honourable member for the Northern Territory on his obvious concern for the welfare of the people of Darwin and the very soundly based thoughts that he brought to bear on this proposal. I hope that the Government will give full consideration to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1973-74 Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed from 11 September (vide page 819), on motion by  Mr Crean: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr Snedden  had moved by way of amendment: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House expresses disapproval of the Budget because it is economically irresponsible in that: 
with inflationary pressures intense it fails to adopt any policy to bring inflation under control; 
with resources already under strain it applies wrong economic principles by over-loading resources further by expansionary public sector spending; 
it permits the tax burden to accelerate to an unprecedented level; 
it is a further step in the attack on the Federal system of government by Labor which aims to centralise all decisions in Canberra; 
it jeopardises the future growth of living standards and economic development of the nation; 
it unfairly discriminates against the rural community and discourages decentralisation; 
it does not provide a framework of social equity, and 
it fails to honour election promises'. 
This matter has aroused a good deal of fire at times from some honourable members. Because one has a command of English and one's oratory is regarded by some people as being pleasant to listen to, this does not mean that there is unlimited logic in it. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has been talking on this subject for quite a considerable time. I doubt whether in the whole of that period any people who have heard him have been convinced by his arguments. I certainly have not met any of them. If his contentions are so irrefutable and so logical, and if they are so perfect in their concept, it is rather a wonder that more people have not been converted to his point of view. I recognise that the honourable member has every right as has every member of this House to voice his opinion. I do not deny that right at all. But, at the same time, for any member of this House to rise and to suggest that because he has a particular view other views are not. acceptable, are not reasonable and that no basis exists for them is something that I certainly cannot accept. I will not use the words that I would like to use to describe that sort of approach. 
The debate on the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 (No. 2) does emphasise the problems of federal government in Australia. But that does not mean that the only alternative is the acceptance of a government that is so centralised in outlook that it is determined to try to undermine all of the authority and functions of our State governments. I think that very few people who have taken any interest in the operations of the present Federal Gov.ernment have any doubts about its approach to State governments generally. This legislation gives the Government another opportunity to further that cause. The legislation certainly is not the only matter that it is going to use, but this matter does fall into that category. 
I believe that the question under consideration at the moment is one that should be resolved. I do not argue that it should not be resolved. I would like to see it resolved by consultation with the States. I think it could be. One of the main factors preventing a greater degree of co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth has been the very justifiable fear of the less populous States of the domination of the Federal Government. They feel that if they give away any of the rights that they have to the Federal Government this would be another step towards centralisation. Whatever reservations the Government of my own State of Queensland had previously - quite obviously it did - those reservations certainly have increased enormously since the present Labor Government has been in office. This change has been fully justified by many of the actions that the Federal Government has taken. The latest is the action of the Federal Government to refute the agreement made with the State governments of Queensland and New South Wales with regard to Pikes Creek dam. I quote that only as an example of the sort of thing that is happening. Can we expect a State government to have any confidence in this Federal Government if it will not honour an agreement that was undertaken by the previous Federal Government? If the Federal Government will not do that, what confidence can the States have that the Federal Government will co-operate with them to the benefit of the community generally? I have cited the Pikes Creek dam project as an example. 
I repeat - and I accept completely - that a need exists for a clarification of sovereignty with respect to the matter under debate now. While there have been long negotiations - I concede that those negotiations cannot go on indefinitely - I do believe that the consultations should be continued. Probably there is a recognition by the States that those consultations cannot continue indefinitely. The States would be - and I feel should be - prepared to try to co-operate to achieve that goal of agreement. 
The problem that confronts the States is that they must try to promote the general development of Australia. Faced with the problem of trying to promote their own ideas against the views of a population which is so centralised in the south-eastern portion of the nation, the States must naturally be most careful not to give away any of the powers that they hold that affect the promotion of their welfare. It is essential that there be cooperation between the States and the Commonwealth. That is the line that we in the Country Party have continued to take. I do not believe that because some difficulty has been experienced in arriving at a decision we should suddenly say that that is the end of the matter and that there can be no further consultation between the States and the Commonwealth. 
I believe that if a reasonable proposition is put forward the States will consult with the Commonwealth. After all, the State governments represent the same people as we represent. Why would the State governments wish to hold these powers if there was no justification for it? Honourable members can talk about party lines. What is the attitude of the Western Australian Government on this question? What was its attitude at the Labor Party convention? The Western Australian Government was most reluctant and in fact was not prepared to hand over the powers to the Commonwealth as it was requested to do. 
As my friend the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  says, the Western Australian Government was not prepared to hand the powers over under any circumstances. 
It does not make it right and it does not make it wrong. The honourable member for Diamond Valley has adopted the attitude that because he holds a view it must be right, or because the Commonwealth holds a view it must be right and because the State holds a view it must be wrong. If that is the attitude of the honourable member all I can say is that it is a biased attitude and does not cut any ice with me at all. 
The dissension between the Commonwealth and the States has continued longer than I believe any member of this Parliament would have liked to have seen it continued. Members on either side of the House could make some concessions to try to resolve this very difficult problem. Several problems are associated with my own State of Queensland. One of the things for which I gave the Premier of Queensland great credit was his determination to see that the Torres Strait Islands were not to be taken from the Queensland Government and handed to New Guinea. Will any honourable member on the Government side contend that the Commonwealth was not pre pared to alter the boundary of that State? We heard a good deal from the honourable member for Moreton about who can and who cannot alter boundaries. I suggest to him that he looks at the negotiations which took place with the people of the Torres Strait Islands. If one thing clearly came out of those negotiations it was that the Premier and the Government of Queensland were prepared to defend the rights of the people in those islands to remain a part of my own great State of Queensland. That is the clear cut position. It is another one of the things which makes the Queensland Government consider very seriously any further negotiations with the Commonwealth. 
If the honourable member wishes to promote the interests of New Guinea against the interests of Queensland that is his business; it is not my attitude. We heard a good deal tonight about how good the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Moreton were. I think the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  made those observations. What did the honourable member for Blaxland and the Labor Party say in general about the attitude of those members? Do they agree with their general attitudes? If the honourable members are so accurate in their assessment of all matters I hope the Government will take notice of their attitudes towards many of the political problems of the day, or will the Government select only the attitudes which happen to agree with its own opinion? 
There is one other matter I should like to mention. Before concluding my speech I thank the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is at the table, for the courtesy he showed in allowing me to talk beyond the time to which he had intended to allow this debate to continue. I wish to comment with regard to the problem of the exploitation of the mineral wealth that is contained in the continental shelf. I will quote what was said by the Minister when introducing this Bill. Anyone who has had a close association with the mining and oil industries will know how much they feel that the Government has or has not helped them. Never has the exploration for oil been dimmed as much as it has under this Government; never has the mining industry been more depressed than it is at present. Yet the Minister said: 
I would now like to touch briefly on some financial aspects of this Bill and its associated royalty Bill. It is our aim to encourage, under Commonwealth control, off-shore minerals exploration and exploitation. We realise that these are costly operations and therefore intend to keep fees for such activities at a reasonably low level. 
Honourable members should consider how the Government has treated those industries. No wonder the States are concerned about what would happen with the exploration and exploitation of minerals in view of the words of the Minister and after the States have considered the actions that have been taken by the Labor Government. I am certainly opposed to the Bill and I support the attitude of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, in his remarks on this Bill. 

<graphic href="085131197309196_71_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="085131197309196_71_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="085131197309196_71_2_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I am very concerned, as all people should be concerned, about the attitude of the Government towards the media generally and particularly towards the media serving the community outside the metropolitan area. Recently the Government, under pressure from the Opposition, agreed, to proposals put forward by the Australian Country Party member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  with regard to postage on country newspapers. I welcome this concession. But in view of the overall approach of this Government towards the community I still wonder whether this is but a temporary reprieve or whether there has been a change of heart by the Government on this issue. 
However, tonight I want to refer to the attitude of the Government towards another vital component of the media - the commercial broadcasting stations. Those stations serving people living outside the metropolitan area have received the most savage treatment from this Government. The increased charges for broadcasting the Australian Broadcasting Commission news and the increased charges for land lines will force some country broadcasting stations to close down or at least to reduce the service now being provided for listeners. These country stations are essential to provide a medium for local advertising and par ticularly to notify changes in advertised events. It is worth noting that announcements by these country broadcasting stations are the only way in which this information can be provided to very many people in country areas, particularly those who have waited for years for telephone connections to be provided. With this Government's concentration on the provision of telephones for city residents they could have a long wait yet before they will have the telephones by which they can receive other information. 
The commercial broadcasting stations in the outlying areas of this country - in many instances they are not so far outlying - play a very important part in the community life of the district. It would be nothing short of a tragedy if, by the insistence of the Government on these very largely increased charges, they were unable to carry on. I have referred to the increased charges for the broadcasting of the ABC news. These charges have been increased enormously. On the information I have, I believe that under the new proposals some of the stations will have to pay up to 400 per cent more for this service. I have it on good authority that some stations are con,sidering having to forgo the provision of the ABC news for their listeners because it is not economical for them to carry on. 
In the case of land lines the cost has been increased in some cases up to about 50 per cent. Since these increased costs are more than the profit earned by the stations, inevitably the money invested to provide the service to the community in those areas will be lost unless substantial relief is provided. It is my object tonight in raising this question in the adjournment debate to appeal to the Government to take into account the serious position of these stations. It is all very well to say that something has to be economical. The work that is done by these stations in providing a service to those people helps to retain people in those areas where the provision of food is the major industry. Surely we all know the need for the continued production of increased quantities of food in Australia in particular. It is not an exaggeration to say that people in those areas are getting fed up with the problems and difficulties they have to face on every hand and they are concerned that they will not receive anything like a reasonable return for the efforts they make or anything like reasonable consideration for the disadvantages that they suffer. They will feel like giving the job away and becoming extra residents in the already overcrowded cities - and I am not drawing an exaggerated picture at all. 
I have referred to some of the worst affected stations, but other stations affected by seasonal conditions and the fact that the producers can get only low prices for some of their products have found that their advertising revenue is reduced to such an extent that their operations have come down to about an even keel. With the improved seasonal conditions and improved prices they were beginning to look forward to a return to profitability, but now the stations will again be forced into operating on an unprofitable basis simply because of the increased government charges being forced upon them. 
I am not blaming the Government for the advertising situation because it is something which was set in train at an earlier date. I want to be completely fair about that. We ali know that tobacco advertising was a substantial source of revenue for these stations. Now that it is being phased out the Government surely should give some assistance to these stations so that they can regain the position that they held previously. But what has happened? Apparently the Government has decided that this would be the opportune time to deal a death blow to these stations by imposing very heavy increases in government charges, knowing as it does that they also have to meet the increased costs of recent salary rises. 
Why does the Government want to get rid  of  these stations, if in fact that is what it is trying to do? Is it because so many of them serve country and rural areas? Is it because the Government considers that they give a broad view of all matters of interest to the areas they serve; or is it because the Government considers that some of them might have some sympathy for the country people generally and perhaps for the Australian Country Party? That reminds me of an answer given by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who I am pleased to see in the House. In answer to a question asked on 22 August about country newspapers - I have time to read only the last portion of his answer - he said: 
AH we have done is suggest that rural newspapers should pay the same as the general public. What is wrong with that? Unless that attitude is adopted the public will be asked to subsidise owners of small industries - perhaps uneconomic industries - who obviously vote for the Country Party. 
That was rather an illuminating sort of observation by the Minister. Has the Government applied the same thinking to this excessive increase in charges on our commercial broadcasting stations? I am very concerned about this matter. As I said earlier in this speech, the Postmaster-General gave some alleviation to country newspapers in relation to the charges that were to be imposed. I hope that he will be consistent when dealing with the broadcasting stations, because these 2 sections of the media are interlocked. They have to be combined to give the necessary service to the people in country areas. I appeal to the Government and to the Postmaster-General to have a look at this problem that is facing the Country broadcasting stations and to see whether it is possible for the Government to grant them sufficient relief to enable them to carry on providing their service. 
The owners of country broadcasting stations do not derive a large amount of revenue from them, as do the owners of the city broadcasting stations. Of course, the city broadcasting stations do not have to use landlines to anything like the same extent that country broadcasting stations do. So we are faced with the position that we could lose country broadcasting stations which have been in existence for many years and which in some instances have made no profit and in other instances have made very small profits. They have been prepared to carry on and to provide a service to the community. They have been prepared to give sporting news on Saturday afternoons to the people in the surrounding areas. Does the Government intend to deprive the people of this service because of the miserly amount of money it will gain by imposing these charges? The responsibility rests squarely on the Government. Is it prepared to keep these stations in operation by leaving charges at the level at which they stood or at least increasing them only to a minor degree? Will the Government put these stations out of business completely? I will leave it to the Government to decide. 
'Earlier in this debate there was some talk about the advantage of being able to ask supplementary questions. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  followed on the discussion by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  in relation to question time and perhaps it would be appropriate if I were to begin my remarks on the estimates for the Parliament toy referring to question time. It is true that the amount of time that has been allocated for question time in recent times has been approximately 45 minutes. But the allocation of this amount of time does not mean that it is necessarily the right amount of time. Question time is one of the most valuable times in the Parliament and certainly one that is most appreciated by the public whom we as members of Parliament are here to represent. If people want question time I think serious consideration should be given to the extension of the time. What has the fact that it might have been cut back, as has been claimed, got to do with the assessment of what is the right thing to do? If we are going to accept what has happened in the past as a measure we will never make progress or develop a better system. 
There is one interesting point that I want to make with regard to question time. I believe that greater consideration should be given  to  the Opposition at question time. I know that in the years when we were in government and when I was sitting on that side of the chamber I did not raise this point. Perhaps if I had been generous enough I should have done so. Perhaps I did not feel the necessity to do so because when I was in government I found that I was able to ask questions quite regularly. Since I have been in the Opposition I have found it extremely difficult to ask a question. I have often wanted to ask questions but I have not done so because 1 did not want to waste the amount of time provided. 
I am pleased to hear the honourable member for Wide Bay being fair enough to make that point. I would like the Parliament to look at the situation. I hope that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  will spare some time to listen to what I am putting up now. I think that at the present time, the Government after electing a  Speaker,  has some 66 members of Parliament. Correct me if I am wrong. I did not check this completely. I think it is right. 
Then there are 27 Ministers, so that leaves 39 backbenchers on the Government side. On this side of the chamber when the new member for Parramatta comes in there will be 58 members. If one works on the basis of 58 Opposition backbenchers as against 39 Government backbenchers one finds that the Opposition asks one question to every  li  questions asked by honourable members opposite. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay points out that the Opposition has 4 leaders whereas the Government has only 2. That might make the position worse. I will leave that to one side. As the honourable member was generous enough to confirm my previous comments perhaps I will let him get away with that interjection without being nasty about it. I believe that, in the light of that circumstance and in the interests of Parliament as it will go on through the years, it would be reasonable if the Opposition were allowed to ask 3 questions for every 2 asked by honourable members on the Government side. I think that that would be fair enough. One finds that for every question there is a Government Minister on his feet. Do not tell me that those Ministers do not take the opportunity to score political points when answering questions. They may answer them in the manner in which they choose. There is no restriction on them. On careful examination one will find that question time is very heavily weighted on the side of the Government. I do not think that is the way it ought to be. The Opposition is here to provide some sort of criticism of the Government. I hope that it is helpful criticism, although sometimes it may not be. I do not think it is unreasonable that at question time at least 3 questions should be allowed to the Opposition against 2 for the Government, and that would apply at any time. Even then I believe that the advantage would still be with the Government. This is something worth having a look at. 
I turn now to the committees. It has been my privilege for a number of years to serve on one of the statutory committees, the Public Works Committee. I see the former  chairman  sitting up there with the dignity for which he is always noted. I refer to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  Now I serve under the very genial and capable  chairman,  the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton).  I am very proud, as I am sure every member of the Public Works Committee can be proud, of the fact that this Committee has looked at all its references from the point of view of what would be in the best interests of Australia. That is borne out by the fact that certainly during the time I have been a member, which is now 4 years, the Committee has never divided on party lines. When I see the shemozzle that sometimes happens in this chamber as a result of completely party outlooks it is refreshing to be a member of a committee which is prepared to look carefully and clearly at and to study in depth, as far as it has the time to do so, the problems which confront that committee, and to bring down to this Parliament and to the Government of the day the decisions which the Committee has arrived at, looking at its references from the point of view of what would be in the best interests of the nation. Only a week or so ago my predecessor in office,  Mr Brimblecombe,  passed away. He was a former member and  chairman  of that Committee. Even before I came into the Parliament he spoke very highly of the work the Committee did and the cooperation it always received in trying to arrive at the best decision. 
I want to pay tribute to the officers of the Parliament. I have found them to be very helpful even at times of great strain. Their advice and impartiality reflects great credit on them. I join with the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  and others who have mentioned this point. It is to their very great credit that they keep up a standard of asssitance and maintain the dignity of this Parliament day in and day out, even at times under great strain. I would also like to pay a tribute to the Parliamentary Library staff. 
The Library service is of tremendous advantage to members of Parliament. I have been treated with unfailing courtesy and consideration at all times when I have looked for some assistance from the Library staff. I am very happy indeed to pay them the tribute which they so justly deserve. 
There is one other point I would like to make and in this I may be chided with being somewhat parochial. I believe it is necessary when we have in the Parliament a party which is not a major party but which represents quite a large section of the Australian community, that its voice should be heard in major issues that come before this Parliament. Today, because of the way the Parliament was conducted, the voice of the Country Party was not heard in the debate on the Constitution Alteration (Incomes) Bill. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  spoke for only a minute before he had to sit down because the guillotine was applied. Surely it cannot be in the best interests of the Parliament that a Party which represents quite a large section - I reject completely the actual percentage of votes that were recorded in our favour because we did not contest all the seats in the Parliament - 
I did not hear the criticism from over there. I do not know who said what but I think that might be a worthwhile interjection. It indicates that he is scared of us. I do not know that that was the point. I believe that insufficient time is allowed for debates of great importance and we cannot be sure that the voice of the Parliament generally will be heard if the number of speakers is limited. I know that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  had his name down to speak, but unfortunately he had to leave. But then the  Deputy  Leader was not able to speak. I believe that this is an important point. I make a plea to the Leader of the House to see that as far as it is possible at least one  speaker  from the Party is heard on matters of importance. I can recall the debate on the States Grants '(Water Resources Measurement) Bill, which vitally affects my own area, which includes the headwaters of the Darling River basin. Not one member of the Country Party was able to say a word about the Bill. I believe that with our practical experience we could have made a worthwhile contribution to the debate on the need for the expansion of water resources measurement. 
The time was limited and I did not have an opportunity to speak. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I would just like to add a few comments to what the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has just said. It is true that there has been a delay in these stations going into operation in these areas. I received a letter from the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  advising me that the program was more or less on schedule. Only a week or so after that,  Senator Milliner  asked a question in the Senate and the Minister's reply to him was that there would be a delay of some 2 months. I have not received any official notification of the change but I understand it was occasioned by a delay in the supply of some equipment. Nevertheless it is annoying to have these constant delays. I hope there will be a speeding up of the provision of these television stations. 
I also want to speak tonight on the education of children and students who come from outlying areas. Many of the people in these areas have to send their children away to school and consequently they are dependent on schools which provide boarding facilities. There is a very real problem facing them in finding schools where boarding facilities can be provided. One of the reasons why the independent schools which provide this sort of accommodation are in trouble is that they are not getting the amount of assistance which I feel they are entitled to be receiving. I believe that the fairest way of distributing Government assistance to independent schools is by way of per capita payments to all independent schools. This Labor Government has made great play on the fact that per capita payments to all independent schools means that some well-endowed schools get assistance which otherwise could be provided for schools in greater need. That is the claim that this Government makes. The facts are that per capita payments to all independent schools are justified by the fact that all independent schools which undertake the education of students save the taxpayers of this country the difference between the amount of the per capita payments and the actual cost to the Government of educating students in government schools. Every parent in this nation is entitled to send his or her children to government schools irrespective of the financial position of the parents. If the Government is prepared to provide education in government schools for the children of wealthy parents without any discrimination as far as wealth is concerned then why should there be discrimination in relation to independent schools to which the Government pays only part of the costs? It is the principle of this that really counts, and it is this principle that is accepted by the independent schools association. Even though some schools may be in difficult financial circumstances, the association insists on its idea that all independent schools should get that per capita payment. I believe, and I am of the opinion that the majority of the independent schools believe that topping off some of the better endowed independent schools, as they are called, is simply the beginning of a continuing operation. 
In regard to the schools that have been classified as worthy of some assistance, it is obvious that another group of these schools could be regarded as much better off financially than some other schools. So, they could take top off these schools further on the grounds that, perhaps, they could give some more money to the schools that are not quite so well off. I should like to cite an example of the anomalies that creep into this situation where per capita grants are not given to some schools. This Government has introduced the factor of the teacher-student ratio as one of the criteria in deciding whether a school should be placed in a certain category and receive a certain rate of assistance. If a school has strained its resources to the limit to provide the best possible teacher-student ratio, as some have done, it could be denied a level of assistance that would be given to a school which was better off financially but which bad not made the same effort to attain a better standard of teacher-student ratio. That is just one of the anomalies that could occur. 
If the policy of the Government is to be followed through, it would be reasonable to assume that other schools could be deprived of the assistance that they have been getting because these schools are getting less assistance than they need to carry on because they are in a higher category, even though they are still in very difficult financial circumstances. I concede the point that there are schools in greater need than others, but they can be provided for by giving additional assistance to them over and above the per capita payments, if the Government wants to provide extra assistance to schools which it feels need extra assistance. Unless per capita grants are made to all schools, anomalies will continue to arise and I suggest that the Government should have a very careful look at the policy that it is adopting. 
I believe - I think that many people hold this view - that the effort the Government is making is not so much with the idea of providing extra assistance for those schools that the Government claims are in greater need but rather with the idea of trying to bring all schools under government supervision and control. I believe that it is a better system to have government schools competing with nongovernment schools. I have the highest regard for the government schools; it is not that I am saying anything against them. I was proud to have been  chairman  of a state school committee, what would now be called a parents and citizens association. However, just to prove that this is not completely a party political matter, the Tasmanian Labor Government has rejected the policy adopted by this Government and it has retained the per capita grants and even the extra finance made available to non-state schools this year is to be distributed on the same basis as the per capita grants are distributed. 
So I believe that it is reasonable for the Government to have a look at this method of providing assistance for the non-state schools. The policy that the Labor Government is adopting at present will exclude from assistance some 58,000 pupils and 105 schools. Let me repeat that all of those schools providing education for those 58,000 pupils are saving the Government the difference between the per capita grant that they would have received and the cost to the Government of providing education for those children. Even the newspaper the 'Australian' which I think most people would agree is at least fair to the Australian Labor Party, if it is not more than fair to it, said: The best way to deal with the problem would be to retain the per capita grants for all schools and give extra assistance to the poorer establishments which genuinely need it'. That is the line of action that I favour. I believe it is quite a reasonable policy to adopt and I simply mention the fact that the 'Australian' newspaper accepts it. I should like to emphasise one or two other items. In doing so, I should like to quote the decisions reached at the Australian Parents' Council at its annual conference, 1973. The Council states: 
All Australian children are entitled to an education which will enable them to attain their full potential, intellectual, social and physical. 
These are the aims and objectives of the Australian Parents' Council. They continue: 
Every child has an equal right to participate in the distribution of education finance derived from public moneys. 
Parents, not the State, have the right and duty to choose the type of education their children shall receive. 
The exercise of this choice must be free of financial penalty. 
So, in promoting this proposal, I hope it will be noted. I regret that I did not give any warning to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  that I would be speaking tonight on this matter. I did not have my name down on the list of speakers on the adjournment debate and I will not be here tomorrow night. I regret that I did not give the Minister any warning. It is my normal practice; I have followed it in the past and I will continue to follow it in the future. I think it is a very good practice and should be continued. It is a very fair way of approaching a matter. I am glad that the Minister has at least come into the chamber at this late hour. 
I believe that the matter to which I have referred is a very important aspect of the educational system. I know that the Minister for Education has done a very good job in many fields. Since he is in the chamber, I should like to say that I appreciate the assistance that has been given to the Isolated Children's Association which I discussed with him before the change of government. I thank him for what he has done in that direction. I hope that in all fairness he will give serious consideration to trying to provide aid to those schools which are willing and able to provide the boarding facilities which many of these children are forced to use. 
While listening to this debate I have been wondering where the Country Party comes in on a consideration of the remaining clauses of the Bill. In the contribution made by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry),  who has just resumed his seat, I heard very little other than what the attitude of the Country Party is to this Bill. The remaining clauses of this Bill deal with the fees and charges to be imposed on commercial broadcasting stations. I emphasise that these stations form a most important part of the life of the community throughout the whole of Australia. I inform the honourable member for Franklin that we are concerned not only with country broadcasting stations. But if a disadvantage is applied to a country broadcasting station, in spite of anything that he or the Government might say, we will defend their position and we will endeavour to see that all country broadcasting stations are permitted to provide the services that they have been providing down the years. If the increased fees have any effect on the services provided, we will raise our objections here. It is on that basis that we oppose the charges proposed by this Bill. The honourable member for Franklin said that these charges are to be raised from $50 to $200. I point out that this is the basic charge but that other charges are involved. The honourable member referred to the fact that there are not many country broadcasting stations with a revenue of more than $500,000. That is perfectly true. At the same time, we look at the whole concept of the increased charges on commercial broadcasting stations. I refer now to the part played by those stations which are facing difficulty in continuing operations in present circumstances. These commercial stations do play an extremely important part in those areas, particularly where television is not available and where telephone services sometimes are non-existent or are often very unreliable. In such areas, commercial broadcasting stations are an invaluable medium for advertising. They provide information as to the sudden postponement of any function. They broadcast local news and descriptions of sporting activities in these areas. Unless these stations can continue to operate profitably, they cannot provide these services indefinitely. 
The financial position of many of these broadcasting stations is precarious. That would not worry the honourable member for Franklin. He would not be concerned about that fact. That is typical. I might tell the honourable member that it is predictable, too. Rising costs have created a great problem for many of these stations. The phasing out of cigarette advertising has reduced their revenue to a considerable degree so that profits have been .adversely affected from the aspects of income and expenditure. The rising costs which must be faced continually by many of these stations are highlighted in an article in the Australian' of yesterday's date. It is headed: Threat to State's radio, TV, phone services'. I must read the full heading although I relate my remarks, for the purposes of this debate, to the radio aspect only. The news report states: 
. radio . . . services in Queensland could be disrupted. . . . 
It states further: 
The technicians will decide whether to accept wage increases of between  8  and  10.8  per cent offered by the Public Service Board. 
The offer represents increases of  S300  to  $1,000  a year for technicians, and follows increases of  12  to  16  per cent to clerks in the Federal Public Service. 
It is against this background that we should view the increased charges that are to be imposed. 
I remind the honourable member for Franklin of one part of the report which he seems to have studied very carefully. He did not mention that, in the 5 years covered by the report, with regard to revenue or profitability for 1971-72, the last financial year quoted, more commercial broadcasting stations showed a loss than for the whole of the 5-year period mentioned. As a consequence, fewer stations showed a profit. If the honourable member for Franklin is the expert in this field that he pretends to be he will know that the indications are that the figure for the next financial year when made available to us will demonstrate that a considerably greater number of commercial broadcasting stations will show a loss. It is this point that concerns us. The disturbing factor is that many of these broadcasting stations were not formed with a view to making a profit. They were put there by dedicated- 
Look, Government members just show their ignorance. The stations were put in these areas to provide a service. 
Government members do not know anything about this matter. These country broadcasting stations were provided by local companies to provide a service to the community. Profitability was a secondary consideration. 
These are the stations which are showing a profit now. We hear hyena laughs from honourable members opposite. These only demonstrate the lack of understanding of the problem that we face. They show also the attitude of this Government. My claim is perfectly true. There are stations which have great difficulty in carrying on because they must meet difficulties resulting from decreases in revenue in addition to the problem of increased costs. They are small stations. They will find these new charges difficult to bear. The point raised by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  was well taken. He pointed to the increased charges for broadcasting stations. The amount equal to one per cent of gross earnings is limited now to stations earning $500,000 or more. Studying the scale set out on page 53 of the report, one sees that a considerable amount of revenue is being raised from these stations. 
Perhaps there are some stations which will be able to meet the increased charges, but there are others which will not be able to do so. I hope that the Government will show interest in the next point that I mention because I do put this argument pretty seriously to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison).  I hope that he will not join in the laughter which has occurred while I have been speaking quite seriously and quite factually. I know what I say to be true. I hope that some consideration will be given to a broadening of the national advertising program to take into consideration the problems that these stations face so that perhaps the national advertising program may be spread much more widely among the stations which now face serious profitability difficulties. 
I return to the subject that caused all the laughter earlier. I was told by the manager of one station that it would not be able to pay the increased landline costs and that it would need to discontinue some of the news services that it was providing. The company forming the broadcasting station was established in a country town; none of its shareholders was from outside that town or that district. So, when I say that nobody has ever been associated with a commercial broadcasting station for reasons connected only with the profit that might be made, I throw back into the teeth of Government supporters their laughter at my remarks earlier. These stations undoubtedly are the ones that will feel the extra charges to the greatest degree. I ask the Government: Is it prepared to see these stations go to the wall? Will it base every law that it introduces in this Parliament on economics entirely? Or is it prepared to provide some sort of service for those in that vast area of the Commonwealth which is already handicapped very greatly as a result of- 
You would not even know what socialism is, and socialism is a subject that you ought to know something about. These stations which are scattered around the Commonwealth provide a service and some sort of entertainment for the section of the community that is responsible for a large portion of the export income that is being earned. Yet in every instance the Government looks at whether or not these stations are making a profit in their own right. Surely there are other considerations apart from simply deciding that a service that is provided to the community must stand fairly and squarely on its own feet, irrespective of the part it plays in the national development of this country and in providing a service to people who deserve well of the rest of the community and of the honourable members on the other side of this chamber. Honourable members opposite would be paying a good deal more for the steaks they are grumbling about paying for now if it were not for the people living in that part of the country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I have heard it said on many occasions that attack is the best defence. I have never seen it demonstrated so emphatically as it was demonstrated by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  tonight. I understand that he was the  chairman  of the Australian Labor Party's rural committee. He was a member of the Joint Committee on Prices, and a prominent  speaker  in that Committee, which decided to recommend to the Government that a meat export tax should be imposed. He was the architect of the scheme. Tonight he has tried to deny it. He could not even convince his own Caucus and his own Minister of his arguments after having had the advantage of hearing so much evidence on this matter. If it were not for the Opposition members on that Committee there would not have been the sound approach that was made to the industry and to the Parliament. It was the approach of the Opposition members on that Committee which, 
I believe, persuaded the Government to accept the reservations they had and the arguments they put forward for oppositing the meat tax. 
As to what the industry thinks about the tax, is the honourable member for EdenMonaro so absolutely conceited that he thinks that honourable members on this side of the House who represent rural areas do not travel around their electorates to find out the reactions of the industry to this tax? Never in the time that I have been associated with politics have I heard a greater condemnation of any decision than that which accompanied the report, to which the honourable member himself was a party, concerning the tax. At meeting after meeting of meat producers, not only in my own area but in other areas as well I found meat producers threatening to keep their meat from the market in protest against the meat tax which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro so blithely tried to defend tonight. The Labor Party has made a hopeless mess of representing the industry. Even the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  demonstrated that. There are one or two other things I want to mention tonight. This was not the subject I intended to speak about at length. I could speak about it for a long time and I think that members of my Party would want me to do so. I merely say that the honourable member did a lousy job on the meat tax. I told the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I wanted to talk tonight about questions from this side of the House. I think that this demonstrates very clearly the generosity of the Australian Country Party, because it will not be long before we will be in government. While we have been in Opposition we have found out the problem and I think I should draw attention to it. The Government, or any government for that matter, has a very decided advantage at question time. Its members have the advantage of asking every second question. As you know only too well,  Mr Speaker,  the Ministers have the advantage of using this time to make political speeches which would be better made by way of a statement. Everyone in the House has spoken about that. The Minister for Services and Property - I thank him for it - drew my attention to the fact that, when speaking about this mater in an earlier debate, I understated the number of backbenchers and overstated the number of Ministers. I did not take into consideration the Ministers who are in the Senate. That was a slip on my part. I thank the Minister for drawing my attention to it. I am prepared to rectify that, but the point is that it made no material difference to the fact that Government members have a much better opportunity to ask questions than have members on this side of the House leaving aside the fact that Ministers take such an advantage of question time. 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property to consider allowing 3 questions from the Opposition for every 2 questions from Government members. I think that he ought to grab the opportunity. Let me tell honourable members what the position is in regard to backbenchers. The Minister will find that my arithmetic is much better than it was before and a lot beter than his when he said that no Country Party member had ever been elected to this Parliament on first preferences. If he follows the example I have set, he will withdraw that statement and apologise to those members of the Country Party whom he maligned in that way. The number of Labor backbenchers, excluding the Ministers, is 45. The number of questions they have asked during this session is 1 39. The number of backbenchers on this side of the House, excluding the 4 leaders of the parties, is 54, and we have asked 90 questions. That shows a very great disadvantage. When I spoke before, some Labor members were fair enough to admit that this was true. 
If honourable members look at the list of questions for the week ending 11 October - I have a copy of it - they will find that some Labor members asked 6 questions whereas the most an Opposition member has asked, leaving aside the leaders, is 3. So there is a very great difference in the total number of questions. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that I had made a mistake when referring to the number of Ministers. I hope that the Minister for Services and Property will recognise and acknowledge the bigger mistake he made in regard to the votes recorded in favour of Country Party members. When I was speaking the other night the Minister for Services and Property - the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  may give him some advice if he thinks that the Minister is not capable of handling the job - made some erratic statements. To use the words that he used so often when he was in Opposition, I say this more in sorrow than in anger. I say that a little more sincerely than he probably did. 
On 26 September when he replied to what I was saying in a debate he said: 
The honourable member has become a real democrat. 
He was right there - 
He said that the Opposition members should be allowed to ask 3 questions for every 2 from the Government side. We were lucky to be able to ask one question for every hundred from the Government side. 
That is what he said. I do not know whether he maintains that, but that is what is in Hansard. So if the Minister is going to criticise me, as he has done, for inaccuracy about the number of Ministers in this place, which made no difference to the total number of questions asked by backbenchers or to the number of questions asked by members on this side of the House, he should look at his own record in Hansard. I repeat what he said: 
We were lucky to be able to ask one question for every hundred from the Government side when we were in Opposition. Honourable members know that we would wait 3 weeks to ask a question. 

 Mr Speaker, you may know that during this last week I have been jumping to my feet to try to ask a question and I have asked only one question. I am not suggesting that you did not treat me fairly. I believe that you did, because there are other members of my Party who also have asked only one question. I am not suggesting that you,  Mr Speaker,  are not doing your very best to see that question time is used to the advantage of the Parliament. You have had great difficulty in doing that largely because of the blatant abuse of question time by Ministers whom you admit that you have to allow to answer questions in their own way. 
I say to the Minister for Services and Property that what I said on the other occasion still stands. The figures show that there is no argument about the position. They are clear cut. Anyone can have a look at them. I will repeat them. Up to the week ended 11 October - I have not the latest document - the 45 Labor backbenchers asked 139 questions and the 54 members on this side of the House asked 90 questions. The Minister ought to have a look at this situation. If he does not do this, I believe that he will make history in this way: That will be the only Labor Party policy that will be retained when there is a change of government, and it will be the Minister's own fault. 

 Mr WHAN (Eden-Monaro)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I raise a point of order. I think the honourable member is going well past explaining the point of misrepresentation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I have certainly been misrepresented on several counts and I will deal with at least 2 of them. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  acted tonight as he has acted before. He said that I said 3 to 1. You would know,  Mr Speaker,  and everyone in the House would know that I said 3 to 2. That is a complete misrepresentation. I cannot understand why the Minister does not try to raise his credibility level a little higher. I am making a suggestion to the Minister and those on the Government side so that they can help themselves when they come back over to the Opposition. I am not doing it for any other reason than for the good of the Parliament. 
The Leader of the House again completely misrepresented me when, straight after listening to me make a particular point of telling you,  Sir, that  I had no criticism at all of you - and you nodded in agreement at the time - he tried to make a point that I was criticising you. But I was not criticising you. What notice can we take of this Minister?  His  credibility is gone. He will not withdraw when he makes an error. That error still stands in Hansard and his credibility is completely gone. 
 Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a front page article in a recent issue of the 'Financial Review' stating that signs of underlying and potentially serious tension are starting to surface between Australia and Indonesia? The article also states that doubts are expressed that the close iden tity of outlook that prevailed with non-Labor administrations no longer exists with the present Labor Government. Does the Prime Minister agree that if this report is correct the position is extremely serious for Australia? Does he agree also that close co-operation between Australia and Indonesia is essential for the security and prosperity of the South East Asian region? If so, will he take all possible steps to rectify this position, if it has deteriorated to the extent suggested by the article, particularly as our defences have been allowed to deteriorate to an alarming degree under the present Government? 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Education I must say that it is surprising to me that the Government has departed from the practice of making per capita grants to assist independent schools in providing education for the children in that system. The rather striking thing about this is that, firstly, per capita grants are the fairest method of assisting schools. There can be little doubt that wherever independent schools are providing a standard of education comparable to that of state schools there is a saving for the Australian taxpayer to the extent that those schools receive less financial assistance than the cost of educating children in state schools. The saving may be even greater now than it was in the past when the cost of educating children in primary schools was $308 per annum per child and secondary schools received $520 per annum per child. The taxpayer gets the benefit of such savings. 
The Government is not responsible in any way for the provision of these schools. They are provided by the independent body. They also add a good deal to the interest in education. It is an advantage to have a friendly competition, as we see, between schools. I cannot understand why the Government has abandoned the system of giving per capita grants. The Government uses the excuse that some independent schools are not in need of assistance. But the reason that they are not in need has nothing to do with the Government or the taxpayer; it is because funds have been provided by individuals. By moving away from this system the Government is not giving reasonable assistance or encouragement to those schools to provide education. There is a necessity to keep the independent school system in operation if we are not to run into the anomalies which are arising at present. 
In the Karmel report it is stated that the State governments are expected to continue the payments that were being made previously. Those payments were made on a per capita basis. In Canberra, where the Federal Government acts as a State government in education it will provide all the assistance, equivalent to the assistance provided by the States, on a per capita basis. The Government is providing per capita payments in Canberra on the one hand, and denying them on the other. This is a remarkable state of affairs. It has asked the States to continue to make per capita payments. The Karmel report at paragraph 1.23 refers to per capita payments in this way: 
There is also the question of State government grants to non-government schools. The Committee has assumed that these will continue on the same bases as presently operate. The extent of Commonwealth assistance to meet the needs of non-government schools depends on the assistance that they are receiving from State governments. Clearly, coordination of Commonwealth and State action in areas of common concern (if not of identical policy) is desirable. The Committee believes that this is a matter which should be discussed between the Commonwealth and State governments. 
The Committee admits that these are areas of common concern. A per capita payment system is used in relation to schools in the Australian Capital Territory, yet when it comes to the provision of Commonwealth funds for our independent schools the payments are not made on a per capita basis. In the copy of the Karmel report I have it is interesting to note that there are 2 paragraphs 6.41. I believe that the first one should be paragraph 6.31 it follows 6.30. Nevertheless paragraph 6.31 states: 
Secondly, as pointed out in paragraph 1.20 the recommendations are based on the assumption that State governments will continue to contribute from their own resources to raising the quality of education. There seems no reason why this should not be achieved, although after 1975 the rate of increase of the States' contributions towards improved quality may slow down when primary enrolments begin to rise rapidly once again. Thus, the Committee expects that by 1975, real, (not money) resources used per pupil will have moved by more than one-third of the way towards the 1979 targets. 
The Committee suggests here that primary school enrolments may rise rapidly once again. When one considers the tremendous effort that has been made by the independent schools in the fields of primary and secondary education, one would think that the Government would give every school every encouragement to carry on mis work. After all, why not? This system has been approved by this Federal Government over many years. There was a time when there was very strong opposition to assistance to other than government schools. This opposition has gone by the board. I hope that it will never again be a matter of concern to the Australian public that assistance should be granted solely to government schools. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. The very good results that have been achieved in both government and independent schools are such that I think one system has been a contributing factor to the success of the other. 
I should like to know just what the saving in revenue would be by the reduction or the elimination of aid to some independent schools. I asked this question on 11 September but have not yet received an answer. If parents decide to send their children to other independent schools or to government schools, will there be sufficient classrooms and teachers to accommodate those children if some of the independent schools cannot carry on? What extra capital and recurrent expenditure would be required if all students had to be accommodated in government schools? How many extra teachers would be required to teach those children who had been provided with teachers by the dedicated independent schools throughout the Commonwealth? What is the saving per capita and in total of expenditure to the Government through children being educated at independent schools? That total amount would be very interesting to me and I am sure to many other people. Does the Government desire to have all students attend government schools? That is, I believe, one of the reasons behind the idea of trying to cut off a group of schools. That is not only my opinion, it is also the opinion of parents associations. The whole body of independent schools, whether they are classed as needy schools or schools which by the generosity of the parents of the children attending those schools are in a better position, right across the board all should receive a per capita payment. They know - if anyone would know, they would - the danger of chopping off a certain section of schools from these payments. The withdrawal of these payments could be a continuing operation. Once one lot of schools is lopped from the top of the list, another lot of schools comes to the top and they could be lopped too. It would be a continuing operation. 
I am talking about the principle. I am talking about the saving. It is all very well for the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  to talk about some other angle. What I am saying is that all schools being provided with per capita payments, are deserving of assistance. There is a lot of noise coming from my left, the Government side of the chamber. Empty vessels make the most sound, and this is a good example of it. I believe that the Government should give more assistance to boarding schools because that is where people have to send their children because there are no school facilities available in outlying areas. The honourable member for Bowman would not be worried about that because he is not in an isolated district. The Paroo Shire Council at Cunnamulla is losing money. Honourable members opposite do not know how hard pressed local governments are. They are providing hostels for children to enable them to get some education. I hope that the Government will give more consideration to assisting those schools which provide boarding facilities. Additional assistance could be given through State governments to those local authorities or other reputable bodies such as the Country Women's Association and chuch organisations which sometimes provide hostel facilities. I urge the Government to give consideration to assisting those people who are prepared to provide hostels and boarding facilities which the children in the outlying areas - the underprivileged children of this country - so sorely need. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Today T want to touch on one or two subjects. You know,  Mr Speaker,  how difficult it is for honourable members from this side of the House to ask questions. We have to use opportunities such as the grievance debate to obtain some information. I am glad to see the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  at the table because he is one of the Ministers to whom I would like to direct questions. First of all I want to refer to civil aviation. I am concerned about the reports I hear of the possible reduction in subsidies to some air services. I am wondering to what extent this will affect air services, particularly in my own area in inland Queensland, and in the western areas of Queensland such as the Channel country and the Gulf country, which are represented by other honourable members. It is vital that these airlines be maintained. 
I hope that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  will be able to give me some assurance that there will be no reduction in essential air services or developmental air services as a result of the consideration of these subsidies. That is one of the angles I wanted to stress today. I hope that the Minister will give consideration to the problems that confront people in these areas before any reduction in services is contemplated or implemented in those areas. Air services are undoubtedly an essential part of life there. I notice in the report of the Department of Civil Aviation for 1972-73 at page 143 that subsidies to airlines cost about $2m. The total administrative and operational expenditure amounts to almost $101m. So the burden of subsidies is not very great. I trust that the Minister will give very serious consideration to the detrimental effect that such action might have on those air services. 
Another point which relates to inland areas concerns telephone services. I have brought this up on a number of occasions. The PostmasterGeneral has never given me any encouragement to believe that there will be any improvement. In fact, I believe that the policy of the Government means that there will be a deterioration of services being provided in the areas where I suggest they are most seriously needed. I take some pride in the progress and development of Australia. I take pride in the progress and development of my own State of Queensland. I am pleased to note that that progress - which is based on the very sound economy that was provided for Australia by the previous Government - is still flowing on in spite of some disadvantages that this Government is bringing to this country. I will refer to my own State now but no doubt this applies to other States. The number of applications for telephone services in Queensland, according to Press reports I have seen lately, is increasing at a faster rate than telephone services are being provided. I hope that the Postmaster-General will do everything in his power to overcome this problem. 
I would like to see all of those people who have made application for telephone services in the metropolitan area receive those services but at the same time, if there is to be priority on the score of greatest need - do not forget that this Government has been very vocal in its discussions and in its general claim that it is helping those in greatest need - here is one opportunity for the Government to show whether it really means that. The PostmasterGeneral has said that it costs $X to install telephone services in the metropolitan area and that it costs a lot more - possibly twice as much or even a little more than that - to provide telephone services in rural areas. I have forgotten the exact figures. I suggest that the need for these services in rural areas is at least twice as great. It is probably 10 times as great, because not only do those people out there depend on telephones from a business and social point of view, but also life depends on them. I am not drawing a long bow or exaggerating the need because I could quote instances. The Postmaster-General himself would concede that point. 
It is difficult to provide all the services that are required. I ask the Postmaster-General to look at this position and to examine it. I know that a royal commission is investigating the matter at the present time. Nevertheless I dp not want to miss this opportunity to ask the Postmaster-General, when considering the report of the royal commission, to take into consideration the problems that confront the people in those areas in obtaining a telephone. For example, one gentleman in my area told me that he had an application in for a telephone for some 5 years. Under the policy of the previous Government he would have received that telephone without a charge for construction. He lives about 15 miles out of town. Despite the fact that he has waited all this time, he has been advised now, I understand, that the telephone will be provided for him providing that he pays the cost - some $5,000. Unfortunately, because of previous unfavourable conditions and the serious financial position which he was in but which he is gradually overcoming now because of better seasonal conditions and prices, he is not in a position to pay $5,000-odd to have a telephone provided. 
As late as 18 October in reply to a question the Postmaster-General said that the number of country automatic exchanges which were provided under the previous policy was 93 in Queensland and a total of almost 2,000 services - including new services and existing part privately erected services - has been provided under that scheme. Very many of those people would not have been able to have a telephone at all if it had not been for the generous and understanding policy of the previous Government in providing those services. It is interesting to note that, of those 1,939 services provided in Queensland, only one was over the 15-mile line, so that would bring the cost back to an average. The need for those services is very real. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has undertaken to give me a written reply rather than taking up the time of the grievance debate. I am quite happy with that and I thank him for it. The other point I wanted to raise concerns television services in western areas of Queensland. There has been some delay in this matter. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has been vocal on this matter, as I have been. There is a tie up between air services, telephones, television, communications and these other things that are so sorely needed. I am sure that the Minister for Civil Aviation will be aware of this need in regard to the subsidies for airlines, which cost some $2m. I emphasise that we are not asking for the impossible. That raises the point, which I may have mentioned before in regard to airlines, that the amount of money that has been spent on television - $4m or $5m - is not very much when one considers the amount of money that is brought into the community by those areas. 
Not so long ago I was in Quilpie. I was advised that the estimate of the cost of a rail strike on the condition of cattle held up as a result of the stike was something like $750,000 just for the hold up alone. I am not canvassing the merits pf the strike. One can imagine the tremendous advantage to this country of the produce from those areas, yet we are having difficulty in obtaining television in places like Quilpie. I have been informed by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  only today that it is expected that the television stations at both Miles and Roma will begin to radiate in November 1973. But there may be some further delay in the other stage 7 stations. I just hope that the Government will give more consideration to the needs of people in those areas. I emphasise their needs because there is only a few members in this Parliament who are able to do that job. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not not intend to take up too much time in this debate as a lot of what I had to say has already been said. I believe the important factor is the utilisation of the time of the Public Works Committee to the advantage of this Parliament atd to the advantage of Australia. The problem that has arisen is that Committee members have to devote so much time to matters coming before the Committee that this work is. encroaching upon the time they have for their other responsibilities as a member of Parliament. The proposal to increase the value of works referred to . the Committee from $750,000 to $2m is, I think, realistic. It has been mentioned before. While the Committee would have been satisfied for the amount to have been raised to $1.5m, the extension to $2m does not make a great deal of difference to the number of references that will come before the Committee. Indeed it is possible for work valued at less than the amount mentioned to be referred to the Committee if it is felt desirable by the Government that the Committee should look into it. This point has been raised and I think it should not be lost sight of even in spite of the fact that the Public Works Committee is fairly hard pressed to find the time to cope with the references that are still coming before it. 
When this Bill was before the Senate discussion took place with regard to other provisions contained in it. It was said that works carried out on behalf of Commonwealth statutory authorities within the Commonwealth or a Territory should be referred to the Public Works Committee. It is interesting to note that  Senator Byrne  when referring to this matter in another place said that the bodies falling within the definition of a statutory authority would number about 60. This figure has been mentioned before by other people and it gives an indication of the weight of work which would fall on the Committee if it is given the responsibility of looking at works which are to be carried out by statutory authorities. On the other hand when this matter was being discussed in the Senate,  Senator Wright  referred to the view expressed by the then Minister for Works,  Senator Cavanagh,  as recorded in Hansard.  Senator Cavanagh  is reported as having said: 
I  do  not think that statutory authorities should be able to construct a building without scrutiny by the Committee when the Commonwealth cannot. 
There is a very good reason why there should be some scrutiny of works being done by statutory authorities. The only concern in my mind on this matter relates to the degree of scrutiny that time will allow the Public Works Committee to give to these works. However, the Committee has expressed some views on it. I feel the Committee is inclined to accept the responsibility, although I do not know whether I should commit other Committee members completely to this view. I believe that the Committee feels confident that it can undertake this task successfully. If this can be done I believe that the investigation of these works will be to the advantage of the community at large. The value of any investigation which is done by the Public Works Committee is twofold. First of all there is the investigation which in itself is very valuable. Secondly there is the pressure that is applied to any body which is bringing a proposal before the Committee in the knowledge that the matter oil be investigated. That in itself is an incentive to those bodies, to the Department of Works or to other departments to make sure that the proposals are sound. They will know that the proposals will come under the scrutiny and the test of the Public Works Committee. 
It was my intention to limit my remarks on bis matter to 5 minutes. The Committee has had to devote a lot of time to the matter. It is anxious to try to undertake the work &gt;r&gt; relation to statutory authorities, if the Committee is given that responsibility. I trust that we will be able to handle it successfully. The only way in which we can really get a clear indication will be by the acid test of having to undertake this work if in fact it is given to us to do. 
I have agreed to co-operate with the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  in limiting my remarks as he did. I thank him for doing so. This will enable my colleague the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  to enter the debate. I regret that the debate on an industry as important as the fruit industry has to be restricted. I support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  It goes to the core of the situation. The amendment does not condemn what has been done. It says that the House is of the opinion that action to implement the provisions of the Bill should be deferred until the Government reports to the House on the action it proposes to take, and the amendment goes on to mention 3 items. Surely this is a reasonable proposal. 
Why should there be such tremendous urgency to have this Bill introduced and brought into force? Surely it is reasonable for it to be examined to enable those people who have a supply of fruit juice on hand to dispose of it pending the introduction of the Bill. The industry should be given a reasonable opportunity to put its case. I agree with my colleague the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  that the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  must have misunderstood or misinterpreted what the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said. Let me quote from Hansard, if that is the statement to which the honourable referred. The Treasurer said: 
If the Coca Cola company would less adulterate its product and make it 10 per cent fruit content it would sell twice as much and I might be prepared- 
I emphasise that -  to look at this situation on that basis. 
My colleague says that the Treasurer has never repeated the statement. The point is that this matter should have been considered before the Bill was introduced. There is no reason why that should not have been done. The amendment has been introduced so that such things may be considered. I believe that the Government should accept this amendment because it is a reasonable proposal. The fruit industry has been going through a very difficult period. I do not think anybody associated with the industry would deny that. The industry needs help. Surely this is not a time when the assistance that is being given to the industry should be withdrawn. 
I have no objection to a review of actions taken over the years but I do object to the suddenness of the introduction of this measure and to the lack of consideration given to it. The fruit industry will be seriously jeopardised as a result of this measure, even though the Government might not regard sales tax exemption as being the most economic way of providing assistance to the fruit industry. No one could deny that the fruit industry is a very valuable industry. The economy of towns, districts and whole areas is based on it. If the Government takes away that assistance at a time when the industry is suffering as it is and gives nothing to replace it, a death blow will be dealt to an industry which has served Australia well. 
Once again the Government has proved that one cannot look at the financial statistics of any measure without looking at the whole concept. From time to time we have heard the Treasurer complain about the Opposition looking at something in isolation What has happened here? The Government has looked at the economics of this measure in isolation and has completely forgotten the great difficulties in which it will place the fruit industry and particularly the apple industry. One recalls the reluctance of the Australian Labor Party when in Opposition to give assistance to the wool industry. I recall that honourable members opposite moved amendments to limit the application of the assistance that the previous Government wanted to give to the wool industry. I wonder where the prophets of doom both inside and outside this House with regard to the wool industry are now. Let us have some national outlook towards primary industry generally and towards the fruit industry in particular. 
The Government has savagely attacked primary industry from every angle available to it. This is just another instance. There is no question that the Government has done that. Primary producers, unless they are unaware of what the Government has done, will say that that is right. It is true that for the first time in a lengthy period some industries are enjoying reasonable prices for their products coupled with reasonably good seasons. That is a combination they have not enjoyed for a long time. This is one of the reasons they have been able to bear the burden that the Government has been placing upon them. The fruit industry is not in that position, yet the Government does not take any notice of it. The Government just applies this saving to enable it to carry on with its reckless expenditure, regardless of the fact that the fruit industry is suffering and that districts and towns are dependent on the fruit industry. It is especially deplorable that the fruit industry should have been given what could easily prove to be a very serious knock when it is in such difficult financial circumstances through no fault of its own. 
I have said that I have no objection to a review of the legislation but I believe that the industry should be given some time to consider all the serious aspects of a bill of this kind. There is no excuse for the Government to bring it down in such a hurry. The honourable member for Franklin has been in this House for almost 7 years. I do not know how long the honourable member for Wilmot has been here. Perhaps the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  can be excused somewhat. As one of my colleagues said, he put a pretty good case when he had no real case to present. Honourable members opposite who represent the fruit industry should have been considering this matter over the years. Surely they have not forgotten the fruit industry. When it was suggested that a Bill of this kind be introduced why did they not bring down some alternative and give the fruit industry a chance to consider it? They should have considered whether some alternative to the sales tax exemption assistance could have been provided on those drinks that contain 5 per cent or more volume of Australian fruit juice or its equivalent in concentrated form. 
The removal of the exemption will have 2 very serious effects. While soft drink manufacturers claim that apple juice lowers the quality of their products - I challenge that claim - and is used only as a means of earning the exemption, it can be expected that the demand for apple juice and citrus juice will be lowered In view of the current adverse marketing conditions for apples, the decrease in demand can be expected to have a very serious effect on the incomes of apple growers. No one can deny that a more efficient means of assisting these growers through minimum income support and an industry reconstruction scheme has been proposed. But where is it? What will tide the growers over a period when nothing will be done? The increased amounts allocated to these schemes does not even approach adequate compensation for the removal of the exemption from sales tax. If the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  likes to deny that, I will be pleased to hear him say that this is adequate compensation for the fruit growers. 
The Government argues that the contribution to apple and pear stabilisation is to be reduced by $500,000 and that fruit growing industry reconstruction funds are to be increased by $1.6m, making a net increase of Sl.lm. But what the Government has not said is that if the exemption had been continued it would have been worth $2. 5m to the incomes of apple growers. Is this not a time when the incomes of apple growers should have been considered seriously by the Government if it had any interest in the apple growers of this country? These statistics are based on the exemption being worth $19m in 1973-74, this value representing 15 per cent of the wholesale selling price of soft drinks, and the growers receiving 2 per cent of that price. I am not denying the figures, but I am arguing that the Government has let the apple growers of this country down badly in removing the sales tax exemption at this time. The second effect of the removal of the exemption is that it will drive up the price of soft drinks by approximately 2c a bottle. In times of rapidly escalating prices surely it cannot be denied that this is another coal on the rapidly growing fire of inflation. Perhaps it is the last straw on the extremely heavy burden already being carried by the fruit growers generally and apple growers in particular. 
I will give some examples of increases in the price of soft drinks. My colleague the honourable member for Murray has mentioned already that free milk is to be denied to the school children of this country. Now the Government is making it harder for them to buy soft drinks. The price of soft drinks in a 32 oz bottle will go up by about 10.4 per cent, for 8 oz bottles the price will go up 9.3 per cent, for 13 oz cans by 18.5 per cent and for 300 ml or 10J oz cans by 26.7 per cent. So there will be a degree of inflation. This has not affected the producers of these drinks because they have put up the price to cater for the increased sales tax. The people who are being hurt by this measure are the fruit growers of this country, and the Government stands condemned for treating them in such a harsh way and for adopting a completely unsympathetic attitude in the introduction of this Bill. I hope that every apple grower in this country will show his concern and what he feels about a government which would treat apple growers in this way. 
In discussing these estimates, I wish to deal first with the Department of Housing. A great need exists for progress to be made in the housing field. I feel that perhaps greater attention could be given to housing needs in country towns. I hope that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  can hear me in spite of all the competition in his area. 
 I am very pleased to know that. Recently I was in Roma, a town in my electorate, which I think is a typical country town. The need in Roma for housing is very real. I attended a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce there. That body was most anxious for houses to be provided. Many people in that area need homes, and I hope that consideration will be given to these needs. I point out that housing development in country towns serves a greater purpose than making homes available for people. The provision of housing in country towns serves the great need for decentralisation and tends to lessen pollution because it is a redistribution of population to some extent. Finally in this respect, I emphasise that the cost of servicing homes in country areas is much less when compared with the cost of servicing houses in metropolitan areas. 
There is a lot to be said for a careful examination of housing activities. I know that overlapping occurs between Commonwealth and State responsibilities with respect to housing. Because of the need for additional homes, I hope that full co-operation in the housing area will occur. In one of his speeches, the Minister for Housing has mentioned the need for co-operation between all sections of the industry. I hope that that objective will apply also to- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! I ask honourable members to observe a little more silence while the honourable member is speaking. 
Thank you,  Sir. I  appreciate your assistance. I did draw attention earlier to the noise that was going on, and I appreciate your help because it is pretty hard for a member to talk over the noise in the chamber although, I admit, it is not so hard for me. 
The next point that I wish to mention is topical. I refer to the need for building standards. In a Press release on 30 October, the Minister for Housing said: 
The need for a national approach to reduce costs and at the same time set standards of safety, health and amenity in housing is urgent. 
I commend the Minister on that statement. I draw attention to the great damage that resulted to homes in the city of Brisbane recently after storms that raged there. Before repairs had been carried out, another storm hit the city. This has created a great deal of difficulty. An examination of building standards is to be undertaken. I hope that the Minister will use this inquiry as a basis for considering the needs for future housing. 
What has occurred with respect to houses constructed in the last few years emphasises the necessity for an improvement in the type of building erected in this area so that future houses which are subject to the stress of cyclonic winds will be able to withstand those forces. I understand that there are measures which can be used, perhaps not to cover completely this need but which will assist to pre.vent or at least minimise damage of the type done recently in Brisbane. One realises that this action will not only protect the asset that homes are to people but also reduce the grave danger to life and the extent of injuries that result from such damage. The problem cannot be eliminated. A limitation must be imposed on costs, I know. But I believe that a good deal more could be done. I am aware that the Minister has invited experts from all over Australia to attend the first meeting of the Australian Housing Standards Conference which is to be held in Canberra on 17 November. I hope that that meeting will take this aspect of housing into consideration; I am sure it will. 
I refer also to the progress that is being made in my own great State of Queensland. I thank the Minister for some comments he made when he was there recently. He referred to the fact that permanent building societies had existed in Queensland for many years. Several in fact were formed in the nineteenth century but it is only in the last few years that strong growth has occurred and I know that this growth is due partly to the excellent government that Queensland enjoys. The Minister also said: 
Although the increase in the number of societies in Queensland has generally followed the rest of Australia, the growth in net deposits here- 
He was speaking in Queensland: 
. has been more significant than in Australia as a whole. 
I am pleased to note that this development is taking place. Despite what the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said today about his hopes, in the past he was almost diffident about the subject of building societies. It is pleasing to note the progress that has been made in this area. 
The Minister referred also to another aspect with which I wish to deal. That is the inflationary situation. No doubt exists that the shadow of the current high level of inflation hangs over every aspect of development in Australia. Housing certainly comes within that field. The Minister said that permanent building societies cannot divorce themselves from responsibility in this field. Nor can the Government. I hope that the Government will keep a careful watch on inflation and its causes to help protect the assets of the community at large, and to assist people who so badly need homes. I believe that the Minister has taken this matter most seriously to heart and I am happy to see that he is endeavouring to cope with the lag in home building. Action in this area is necessary. At the same time, unless the Government as a whole is prepared to do a better job with respect to the inflationary trends in this country, the efforts of the Minister with respect to housing and of development generally will be so undermined as to cut away the benefits that would otherwise be available to the people. 
I would like to continue to deal with housing but I wish to touch for a moment on the Department of Works. I will not have very much time to devote to this subject. As a member of the Public Works Committee, I am well aware of the value of the works that are being carried out throughout the Commonwealth by the Commonwealth Department of Works. I am interested to note too that the Department of Works and the Department of 
Housing are to be amalgamated. The new department will be a very large department. I am hoping that the amalgamation will bring about the benefits that the Minister apparently sees. But the Department of Housing and the Department of Works are 2 very large departments. Speaking from memory, I think there are only 2 departments - perhaps there are three or four - for which more funds are provided than are provided for the Department of Housing. So the Minister will have a very big responsibility. I sometimes wonder whether amalgamations provide the benefit they should from the standpoint of economies of scale. 
In relation to works generally, I believe that the Public Works Committee has been very successful. I pay tribute to my colleagues on the Public Works Committee for the dedication they have brought to their work. I exclude myself from those remarks. As I have had experience of what they have done, I believe it is fair enough for me to pay a tribute to them. The Minister for Housing, of course, was formerly a member of that Committee. One example has been set by that Committee. For how long I do not know, but at least during the whole of my term as a member of that Committee - that is 4 years now - the Committee has not divided on Party lines. I see the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  sitting in the chamber. He stood alone on one particular occasion, and the decision he made on that occasion was justified by later events. This is something that is sometimes forgotten. While I criticise the Government in many ways, I want to say that the Public Works Committee has maintained the tradition that has been set down over the years. I hope it is a tradition that will be maintained. 
I conclude by quoting from a report of the secretary of that Committee. It states: 
The very existence of the Committee and the fact that major Commonwealth works proposals are subject to detailed parliamentary scrutiny has a salutory effect on client departments in formulating proposals which involve public works and public money. This and the examination of client departments on the need for and effect of the proposed work are the most obvious and important aspects of the Committee's investigation. 
There is a move to increase the minimum cost which must attach to a project before it is necessary to have it submitted to the Public Works Committee, but that is only because of the pressure of work on the Committee. There is also a suggestion that statutory authorities might be brought under the Committee's consideration too. I think that the Committee is a very good body. I think it should be mentioned here that it serves the very useful purpose that I have outlined. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the great difficulties, including transport difficulties, of people living in western Queensland, including the Channel country and the Gulf country? Is he aware of the value of production of meat, wool and minerals in these areas and their contribution to export income and consequently the standard of living of every Australian? If so, will he reconsider the proposal to deprive 14 airports in this area completely of the services they now enjoy, or will he hide behind the excuse that this proposal was being examined by the previous Government? Will the commuter services envisaged as a replacement for the Twin Otter services have any chance of being economically operated without the subsidies the Government intends to discontinue? 
Speaking to the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department, first of all I should like to draw attention to something that I have mentioned previously, and that is the problem of providing telephones in rural areas. I know that the Postmaster-General's Department has trouble in meeting the demand for telephones throughout the whole of the Commonwealth, and I accept that, but I repeat that I believe the need for telephones in rural areas is much greater than it is in the metropolitan areas and, therefore, the installation of telephones in rural areas should be given a higher priority than this Government is prepared to give it. In addition, the cost of providing telephones in rural areas is beyond the capacity of many people who urgently need telephones for their own businesses and for the protection of their wives and families. 
Under the previous Government the first 15 miles of a telephone line was provided free of charge to the subscriber, but today that installation would cost the subscriber more than $5,000. This indicates how difficult it is for many people to get a telephone installed. It might be considered that people ought to meet this cost if it were not for the fact that the cost of installing a telephone has increased because of the upgrading of the standard of telephone services. I believe that it is wise and necessary to upgrade the standard in those areas where subscriber trunk dialling will be provided within a measurable time, but in many areas it seems to me that subscriber trunk dialling will not be provided for many years. In the meantime these people who are a long way removed from the metropolitan areas will have to conform to this very high standard although they will have to wait indefinitely to have their telephones converted to subscriber trunk dialling. So I urge the Government to look at the problem facing these people and to try to provide telephones for them at a much lower cost than that which they are presently being asked to meet. 
The Government constantly is limiting and eliminating the services that are provided for people who live outside the closer settled areas of the Commonwealth. Surely we should look at the development of this nation from a national point of view and not merely be concerned with those people who live in and get the benefits of living in the closer settled areas. Sometimes members of the Australian Country Party are accused of thinking only about this matter, and the inference is that no one else thinks about it. I should like to quote from a letter which I received from the Queensland Branch of the Australian Postmasters Association. I noticed that the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  looked up when I mentioned that. I hope that he will take notice of what the Association says. If he will not take notice of what the Country Party says, he might take notice of an unbiased view expressed by the Australian Postmasters Association. The Association's letter of 11 October 1973, which was addressed to me, states: 
The vacant position of official Postmaster at Windorah was gazetted after representations had been made to the Assistant Director (Postal) in Queensland by this Association. However, the position was not filled although, I understand, many applications were received. It is now proposed to reduce the status of the office and fill the vacancy by appointing a non-official Postmaster. 
Reduction to non-official status will mean: 
Official Post Office facilities will be withdrawn. 
There will be no official Federal Government representative in the town. 
Local people will be denied the standard of service provided by a fully trained and experienced permanent career officer of the PMG Department. 
Official Postmasters in an office of this status are mostly young married people with young families attending the local school. They take a keen interest in local affairs and are generally active on local sporting and charitable organisations. 
Under official conditions there is generally an avenue of employment for local school leavers. Many of today's Postmasters commenced their careers in small country towns. 
The Post Office building and residence will probably be sold. It would be unlikely to receive the attention it does as an official office and local expenditure on upkeep by the PostmasterGeneral's Department will cease. 
Those fairly good reasons for maintaining the present position come not from a member of the Country Party but from the Australian Postmasters Association. In order to give an idea of the difference in attitude between the previous Government and this Government, I shall quote another paragraph from the letter. It states: 
About15 years ago - 
During the time of the previous Government - the Department saw fit to spend approximately $35,000 to build a new Post Office and residence at Windorah thus indicating it had faith in the ability of the area to maintain an office under official conditions then and in the foreseeable future. 
But because of the increasingly severe conditions required to be met if official post office status is to be maintained under this Government, this looks like going by the board. I shall quote another paragraph from the letter; it falls into line with the comments that I made earlier today. It states: 
The value of the primary products of this area, wool and beef, to the State of Queensland and the Commonwealth of Australia are tremendous and the need to maintain Windorah as an official Post Office to provide a complete postal service under official conditions is essential. 
In this letter one can almost hear the Country Party speaking, but in fact the letter contains the views of the Australian Postmasters Association. So it indicates that we have people who are prepared to look at the position because they have members in these areas and they want to see that justice is done to the people in the areas. I commend very warmly the Queensland Branch of the Australian Postmasters Association on its broad-minded attitude to this matter. 
I also refer to the fact that approximately 1,000 non-official post offices are listed for examination with a view to closing them. It is true that from time to time post offices in certain areas need to be closed, but when the position of 1,000 non-official post offices throughout the Commonwealth is to be examined, I am sure that one will find that among them are post offices which are sorely needed. But, as I have said, they are to be examined with a view to closing them. I refer to the 300 official post offices which are listed for examination with a view to declassifying them to non-official post offices. Here again the Australian Postmasters Association was active in an endeavour to help people in these areas to maintain these post offices, in spite of the completely selfish and unsympathetic attitude of this Government which looks at the matter purely from an economic point of view. What about the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  taking a little bit of his own medicine? He is constantly hammering away at the Country Party in particular and at the Opposition in general and saying not to look at things in isolation. I appeal to the Government not to look at things in, isolation, but to look at the development of Australia as a nation. 
I will explain in a few minutes just how far this matter has gone. I. will take as an example the town of Injune, which is a town of no fewer than 404 householders. By virtue of the efforts of the people who live in the area, Injune has a doctor and a hospital. It is a thriving community centre. What does the Postmaster-General's Department think about providing a post office for Injune? The post office in this town is one of those listed for examination with a view to reducing it from official to non-official status. There is no official post office within 0 miles of Injune. How does the Government know - how does anybody know - that when these post offices are reduced to non-official status we will be able to get the people to keep them operating? 
I pay a tribute to the excellent work of the non-official post offices and to the postmasters and postmistresses throughout my area. They have done an excellent job, but they are getting a bit tired of trying to live out in this area under the conditions which are being forced upon them by this Government. So we will find that we might have greater difficulty in maintaining these post offices after they have been reduced to non-official status. When the post office in a town like Injune has to face the possibility of being reduced to nonofficial status, I think that it is going too far. How much further will this go? Decisions have been taken on the score of economy. How is the economy being achieved? In the main it is being achieved by sweating the people who are serving as non-official postmasters or postmistresses. That is how the sav ings are being made, and this Labor Government is prepared to do that. It is prepared to save money because it cannot run those post offices, and it is essential to maintain them, as cheaply as they can be run by somebody else. This is the argument that the Government uses to try to force non-official post offices on the people who do not want them. If the people want them, then let them have them by all means. If they do not want them, if they want to maintain the status of their towns, and if the town happens to be a town the size of Injune with 400 households, a hospital and a doctor, then I say it is up to the PostmasterGeneral and this Government to look at these things a bit more broadly and from a national point of view. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The Bill before the House has been debated at some length and I do not intend to go over ground that has been covered already. However, I shall take a few minutes to refer to some particular factors which have a bearing upon air services in inland Queensland, and western Queensland in particular. I received a letter from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  in which he stated: 
In the case of developmental air services, while the previous Government had not taken any firm decision to phase out of this form of subsidy, it has nevertheless expressed the wish that the level of expenditures on developmental subsidies should be reduced as much as possible. On this aspect, in October 1970 my predecessor authorised the Department of Civil Aviation to undertake a review of the services operated in the Gulf and Channel Country networks in Queensland with a view to substituting light aircraft operations for TAA's Twin Otter services. This review was begun, but, because of the possibility of the elections, it was not completed before the change of Government. 
I venture to suggest that it would have received a pretty rough passage had there been no change of government. I am very strongly in favour of the continuation of the Twin Otter service. 
It is true, as pointed out in a later part of the Minister's letter, that the subsidies are fairly high. But whilst they are high on a per capita basis, they must be looked at against the general background of the value of these areas to the nation as a whole. One cannot just look at the pure figures of economics and say: "This is justified on those grounds.' One has also to look at the value of utilising that country. Whilst I know that the intention of these Bills is to reduce the deficiency between revenue and expenditure as at the present time - the Minister stated in his second reading speech on 8 November that the expenditure for 1972-73 was $127.6m, revenue was $58.65m and the deficiency was $68.95m - the situation is that even if these subsidies had been continued the difference in total would have been only a matter of $600,000. Confining the argument to that particular aspect, instead of being $68.95m the deficiency would have been $68.35m. So it is not a major expenditure in relation to the value to the Australian community of the areas served. 
That angle is rarely accepted by this Government. It was not accepted as fully as I would have liked it to be even under the previous Government. To get an idea of the value of these areas I asked the Shire  Clerk  of the Quilpie Shire for some figures which illuminate the value to the nation of these areas. I asked him to give me some figures for an -average year because the seasons vary there. The Shire  Clerk  is not a primary producer. He was not trying to do something for himself. He said that in the calendar year 1969, which he regarded as an average year, the railway loadings were 38,175 cattle, 124,636 sheep and 31,724 bales of wool. They were from the Quilpie railhead which serves the Channel Country to which I have referred. He estimated the value of this production at present prices as being somewhere between $18m and $20m. The people living in those areas deserve some consideration from any government because they do not have the facilities that are provided in many other areas. They do not share in the expenditure of the Government that the general public shares in many other ways. 
It is interesting to note that, despite the fact that those figures were for an average year, in the period July to October this year the figures for cattle trucking reached 34,270 as against the figure of 38,175 for the full year 1969. So the Shire Clerk was not trying to exaggerate the situation. I do not have the figures for sheep and wool for that particular 4-month period, which are the latest figures. In addition to the revenue that comes out of those areas through the railhead at Quilpie, stock from the Channel Country and south west Queensland are also trucked from Cunnamulla and taken by road to the southern States. So there is an added amount of revenue coming from those areas. The people who live there should be given a satisfactory air service so that that country can be utilised. I should point out that a very high percentage of this revenue goes into export income for Australia and thus contributes very substantially to the economic stability of this country. 
That is only one of the things we have to take into consideration. It is one of the things that have been forgotten so often. The human element should be considered. People should be enabled to live decently in those areas and to have the facilities to get out of the areas when they need to. I believe that the expenditure that has gone into providing air services for those areas has helped in the decentralisation of Australia. There was some mention of that in the Coombs report and some suggestion as to how it should be utilised. There was recognition of the need to promote decentralisation, for example, in conjunction with the Postmaster-General's Department and the Department of Civil Aviation. Perhaps some means of offsetting the costs of those departments could be arrived at. 
As a result of the difference in the amenities provided in those areas there is tremendous difficulty in getting people to work there. I am not blaming this Government for it, but the town of Quilpie - despite the fact that it has a population of some 750 or 800 people - was not included in the Stage 7 provision of television stations. When television comes into the other towns, the Channel Country will be disadvantaged again in finding labour. In a discussion with the Shire  Clerk  only yesterday I was advised that to attract skilled labour to that area the Shire Council is at present paying a foreman not less than $35 a week above the award rate. So the ratepayers of that area have to meet this extra charge. These are some of the difficulties that are experienced. I do not have time to run through them all. I point out that the Government should not wipe off the problems of people living in those areas by looking at the figures in a book. I would also like the Government generally - not only the Minister for Civil Aviation- to look at the comparatively small amount of money expended in these areas. I know that quite a bit is expended. As I mentioned, there is no television; there is no public transport west of Quilpie; there are no bus services or anything of that kind. There are the beef roads. The amenities which make living there a little more attractive are very few. These air services do a great deal in that direction. Very little money is expended on tourist or sporting facilities in those areas. I could go on and on. 
In the light of these facts, is it too much to ask the Government to reconsider the decision to take away the Twin Otter services and to continue to provide the existing air services for the people who provide so much of Australia's export income? I also have a concern about the future of air services there. The Minister can correct me if I am wrong but my understanding is that he told me that a subsidy would be provided for the commuter services which are taking the place of the Twin Otter services which are being discontinued in the Channel Country and the Gulf Country. There will be a need for these services. That was the impression I gained from him but it is not stated in his letter. Unless this is done, the commuter services will not continue. If they do not continue, this will jeopardise the introduction of the Friendship service which will run from Brisbane through western Queensland to Birdsville and Alice Springs. So I do say it is necessary that these commuter services be maintained. They have to obtain sufficient subsidy to permit them to operate economically. I am concerned about that particular aspect and I put that point pretty strongly to the Minister, who I hope will give consideration to it. 
Taking into consideration the Government's general attitude towards people living outside metropolitan areas, the subsidies, even if sufficient at the inauguration of the service, may be reduced as a result of the pressure of the capital city dominated Caucus. I say that because Caucus has changed the opinion of Ministers and the opinion of Cabinet. Although the Minister may hold the opinion that the subsidies should be maintained I hope also that the members of Caucus will give consideration to the arguments that I have put forward. I should like an assurance from the Minister that the commuter services that are to be provided in lieu of the Twin Otter service will be given sufficient subsidies to enable them to continue to operate. 
Notwithstanding my urging that the present Twin Otter services should be maintained, if on the ground of economy they are to be discontinued it is absolutely necessary that commuter services as envisaged, and indeed other services, should be maintained. Of the 14 airports that are to lose their services in western Queensland, no less than thirteen fall within my own electorate of Maranoa. We did have quite a good Twin Otter service in that area but now 14 airports will lose their services, including Jundah in the electorate of Kennedy which adjoins my electorate and is so ably represented by my friend and colleague,  Mr Bob  Katter. We have endevoured to maintain these services as they existed but if they are not acceptable and if the Government is determined not to continue with them I hope that the Minister will give full consideration at least to the provision, maintenance and continuation of commuter services. 
My concern over this whole operation is for the fact that we have to try to keep in full production what is undoubtedly the finest and largest natural irrigation system in the world. We cannot give the people in these remote areas the standing of living that is enjoyed in many other areas in the way of amenities; there is no Opera House in Birdsville. If we are asking people to continue to live there - and I believe that it is in the best interests of Australia that they should - surely we must try to provide them with those benefits that are able to be provided and indeed which have been provided, even at some cost to the. community. However, the community in turn receives the benefit from the production that comes from these areas. I have said the same thing before and I shall repeat it and repeat it until some time someone may be prepared to accept the logic of that argument. 
I did say that I would limit the time that I would speak on this subject, and I have concentrated on that particular aspect only in the interests of these people. There are not many of them. If anyone thinks great political advantage arises out of it he is making a mistake because there are not a lot of people in the areas to which I have been referring. However, justice is needed for those who live there and I ask the Minister to ensure that if he cannot maintain the Twin Otter service at least to make sure the commuter service is provided and that in turn will assist in the running costs of the Friendship service to the areas. I make this appeal very sincerely and I hope that it will be given full consideration by the Government. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is he aware of the serious erosion of communication facilities to areas of inland Queensland? Is he aware that in addition to the 13 airports which will, according to a recent announcement, lose their Trans-Australia Airlines air services in south western Queensland from 31 December another 4 airports, namely, Oakey, Chinchilla, 
Miles and Taroom, will not now be serviced by TAA air services from the same date? Is he aware of the great concern held by residents of inland towns and districts generally that the reduction and elimination of services by the Postmaster-General's Department and the airlines is making life in those towns and districts intolerable by comparison with areas more favoured by the Government? If the Prime Minister is aware of these things, will he take steps to prevent this continuing erosion of essential communication services to inland areas and thereby assist in preventing the increasing population drift to the already overcrowded city areas? 
It is not often that one hears of a person coming from Queensland complaining about the finest State in Australia, the best governed State in Australia, a State which has a Government which has been returned constantly and a State in which the percentage of the Labor vote fell at the last election. Those facts alone would refute many of the arguments that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  put forward. Tonight I wish to support my colleague, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  in his defence of a very successful company which has been operating for many years in the capital of the Darling Downs, the garden city of Queensland, Toowoomba. Toowoomba Foundry Pty Ltd has been a very successful company. Let me assure you,  Mr Speaker,  and let me advise those ignorant people who do not know that the volume of production of farming implements depends a good deal on the world markets and the prosperity of primary industry. 
In my electorate of Maranoa, which honourable members opposite may have heard about, the biggest town is Dalby. The largest employer of labour there is a firm called Napier Brothers Ltd. It was on the verge of folding when  Mr L.  F. Diplock, the then State member for the area, took charge at a meeting which was held there when the company was thinking of winding up. That company would have folded. It was producing farming implements. It has just managed to keep going, by struggling along and by not paying dividends for a year of two. It earned an export award for Queensland. It has done a grand job. When  Mr Diplock  was  Chairman  of Directors of that company, he told me that if he were to consider the expansion of Napier Brothers and if he were to consider only the interests of the shareholders in that company, it would have to move to Brisbane. Because of his loyalty to the company and to the area in which it was founded, he said that he had no intention of doing that. 
This attitude indicates the shallowness of the charge made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  against a company which is contributing as much as any company in the rural areas of Queensland or in the provincial cities of Queensland towards decentralisation. I refer to Toowoomba Foundry. We know the problems created by over crowded cities.  Mr Speaker,  as the member for Sydney, which you so ably represent, would be well aware of the great problem of pollution. The Government has tried very hard to distribute the population by setting up growth centres. The Government has adopted a pretty hopeless sort of approach to what is a good idea. Nevertheless, there- is a recognition by the Government - at least let me give it credit for that - of the need to have the population of Australia distributed more evenly. If one company in Queensland has contributed more than any other to decentralisation, surely it must be the Toowoomba Foundry. I support what my colleague, the honourable member for Darling Downs, has said about that company. 
Let me turn for a moment to the work of the Premier of Queensland. He has been denigrated by Labor members throughout the Commonwealth, not the least of whom is the Prime Minister. We have heard threats that Queensland would not get its just desserts because of the courage and determination of the Premier of Queensland to put up a fight for the preservation of State rights in that State. Those of us who live there - surely the honourable member for Lilley should be one of them and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  whom I heard attempting to make some interjection, should be another - ought to realise the need to preserve State rights.  Mr Speaker,  I know that you are the member for Sydney, and that is where you live. I appreciate that your electorate has the problems which apply to electorates in city areas. You do your best to serve the electorate in your capacity as member. But at the same time one of the great problems in Australia is the Sydney-Canberra-Melbourne axis. We should encourage the development of the States other than New South Wales and Victoria. I have no objection - as an Australian I welcome it - to the progress and development which is being made in those States, but we certainly need to have the States other than the 2 major States developed to their maximum capacity. There are companies which I believe are doing something towards achieving that end. I believe that the Prime Minister today reached a low level in his condemnation of companies which have had to battle against great difficulties to maintain viability to serve the community that they serve, and I condemn completely his attack on the Toowoomba Foundry. 
I want to make one other point this evening about a very topical subject - the increased rate of crimes of violence. This matter is disturbing many people throughout the Commonwealth. I am pleased to see the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  in the chamber, as he represents the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy).  I believe that there is a need for an Australia wide examination of this problem. There has been an increase in crimes of violence, as I know only too well. It is an unfortunate fact that it is only when these crimes get close, when you see them happening in your own area, that you begin to realise the great scourge coming over this country. - 1 am concerned about this matter because of the finding of a victim in my own area of Maranoa. A few days ago I received the following telegram from the VicePresident of the Queensland Country Party in that area: 
In view of the increase in the incidents of murder and rape in this country and in particular the terrible crime committed at Collarenebri last Wednesday - this area  beseaches  you and the Federal Government to introduce penalties suitable for this type of crime and we remind you of the very unprotected position of women in isolated country areas. 
The Minister says that it has nothing to do with the Federal Government. If he does not know that the Federal Government controls the Australian Capital Territory it is nearly time that he did. Again if he does not know that the Federal Govern ment can give a lead to the Ministers of Justice throughout Australia in an effort at coordination - the Government is always talking about that - and if he does not know that some responsibility rests on the shoulders of the Ministry in this Federal Parliament to try to do something about that which is concerning so many people throughout the Commonwealth, it is nearly time that he did. The Minister has made an admission, when I think it would have been very wise for him to have kept silent and not interjected. I believe there is no harm at all in this Federal Government's giving a lead in something that will protect the citizens of this country. I expected better from a Minister of this Government. 
I believe there is a need for some action and I appeal to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, if the Minister for Science has no sympathy for this matter, to consider the possibility of having some discussion with the Attorney-General with the object of seeing whether it is possible to have some consultation between the Ministers of Justice in the States. They could examine, as the Queensland Government is going to examine, the penalties for crimes of violence and have a look at the possibility of deterrents, because it is in that area that the greatest service can be rendered to the Australian people. It is not just because a vicious crime was committed in the northern part of New South Wales, the State represented in part by the Minister for Science, and the body of the victim was found in southern Queensland. I believe that it is necessary that we look at this matter from the national point of view. 
I believe that every government in Australia should have concern about trying to provide some sort of deterrent, if possible. I know it is not an easy matter, but it does not excuse us for not taking some action. I hope that the Federal Government itself takes part in discussions on this matter. I refer briefly to the State of Queensland, the State which has been castigated this evening. The Queensland Government is appointing 5 Government members to report and recommend on the growing incidence of violent crime and pack rape. Contrary to the attitude taken by the Minister for Science, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  yesterday criticised the Government for not utilising the abilities of Opposition members through the use of all party committees of inquiry. This is a very different attitude from that taken by the Minister for Science tonight. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the saving to revenue by the reduction or elimination of aid to some independent schools. 
If parents decided to send their children to other independent schools or to government schools, will there be sufficient classrooms and teachers to accommodate students from these schools. 
What amount of extra capital and recurrent expenditure would be required if all students had to be accommodated at government schools, and how many extra teachers would be required. 
What is the saving per capita and in total of expenditure to the Government through children being educated at independent schools. 
Does the Government desire to have all students attend government schools. 
Is the Minister for the Environment and Conservation aware that more than $2m had been spent on the Pike Creek Dam water conservation project before the Federal Government decided to repudiate the undertaking given by the previous Government to share the cost of constructing the dam with the State governments of Queensland and New South Wales? Is he aware that the Federal Government has agreed to pay its share of this amount, thereby acknowledging its responsibility in regard to sharing the cost of the project? Will the Government now reexamine the project in the light of improved prices for primary products which are capable of being produced by irrigation in that area in place of or in addition to tobacco production, which formed part of the original scheme, and which must make this project more economically sound than when it was investigated previously? Further is the Minister aware of the importance of adequate water supplies for towns along this river system which the Pike Creek Dam would supply? 
I appreciate the fact that we are limiting our comments this morning in order to try to meet a time-table which has been set for the rising of the House. Therefore I will not reiterate those arguments which have been so ably presented on this legislation by my colleague the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  But I do want at least to stress one or two points. I am particularly concerned about the Pikes Creek Dam because it does happen to be, as the honourable member said, located in the area which I have the privilege to represent. Such a dam would provide water for the border river areas of Queensland and New South Wales and assist irrigation projects in those areas. It would supply water for the towns situated along the rivers in that area. So it is a very important project. The previous Government did not embark upon it lightly. It gave very careful consideration to it. I believe that had it not been for that and also for the very careful consideration given to this project by the respective State governments legislation would have been brought down. Had that been done, then, of course, the project would have gone ahead. 
We felt confident that any Government coming into office would honour an undertaking given by the previous Government on a matter of this kind particularly as an amount of about $2m had already been spent. But what happened? This project was discontinued and as the honourable member for Farrer said, another project located in the electorate of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was proceeded with even though it had a lower priority than the Pikes Creek Dam project. There is no reason why both projects should not have gone ahead in the course of time. I believe it is a striking example of the financial irresponsibility of .this Government to allow a project to go ahead, knowing that approval had been given by the previous Government, to the stage where more than $2m out of a total estimate of $14m had been expended and be prepared to let that go down the drain or down Pikes Creek, if one likes to put it that way. If it had not been for the financial responsibility of the governments of Queensland and New South Wales this money would have been wasted. It is to their very great credit that they did continue with the project, and it will be continued, but the construction will be done at a slower rate and with the staggering rate of inflation which has been brought about as a result of the economic irresponsibility of this Government the cost of the project must increase. 
Only this morning I asked whether in the light of the improvement in the prices of primary products the Government would be prepared to reconsider this proposal in the same way as it reconsidered the Kinchant Dam proposal. I got a flat no from the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass).  It was not even an answer which would give some hope that the Government might be prepared in the new and different circumstances again to have a look at this proposal which, as the honourable member for Farrer said, had been given a No. 1 priority by the Queensland Government. Will anyone suggest that with all the need for water conservation throughout Queensland and New South Wales that those 2 State Governments would have been prepared to embark on a project of that kind without giving it careful consideration? This is the tragedy of this Government. It has a policy not only of jobs for the boys but also dams for the boys. This is adding even more to its financial irresponsibility. I believe, with the honourable member for Farrer, that that is what has happened in this matter. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I point out with respect that the Pikes Creek Dam was mentioned earlier in the debate and I am referring to previous remarks that were made in the debate. I welcome - I shall return to the Bills in this way - the introduction of these grants for the purposes of providing water for the areas concerned. As the honourable member for Farrer said, the Opposition agrees with the proposal. But I also want to say that I have seconded and supported the amendment moved by the honourable member for Farrer. It states that the motion should be amended by inserting the following words:  whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House  is of  the opinion that the  assistance  provided for the construction of these works has not been allocated  in  accordance with  the  highest  priorities  and greatest needs of the State. 
I submit that one of the highest priorities and one of the greatest needs for the State is the Pikes Creek Dam. Therefore in referring to that matter I have been speaking to the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Farrer. 
I just want to touch for a moment on the Queensland Grant (Dawson River Weirs) Bill, which also is being discussed in this cognate debate. It is an interesting fact that while the Government was prepared to grant $550,000 for this project subsequently, due to unusual geological features - I am referring to the Minister's second reading speech on this subject - which had been discovered at the weir site on the main stream of the River, the estimated cost of the weirs had risen to $1,220,000. What did the Government do in regard to that? It was prepared to continue with the grant of $550,000 provided that the State government was prepared to carry on with the project and provide the rest of the expenditure, which in the light of Queensland's great concern for water conservation it has done. So those people in those areas that are concerned with dams on the Dawson River, who were previously represented by the Minister for Northern Development, should know that the project went ahead due to the unswerving determination of the Queensland Government to see that water is provided in as many areas of that State as possible. 
The real question in relation to water conservation projects of all kinds is whether there is to be a balanced development of Australia and Australia's economy. Water is the foundation on which this balanced development must be built. St George in Queensland, in my electorate has been one of the few inland towns in Queensland's rural production areas which have increased in population. This was the result of water conservation in that area. This shows in bold relief the tragedy of this Government's repudiation of the Pikes Creek Dam project. If southern inland Queensland is to be deprived of any funds from this Federal Government for water conservation and in addition is to have continuing savage cuts in air services and Postal Department services, an even more rapid drift of rural population to the city must be expected. Water conservation can, as I have stated, increase population in our country towns and so make more economic the provision of essential services. While supporting the grant outlined in this Bill, I again urge the Government to look at the provision of more water for inland areas of Australia and, as the honourable member for Farrer pointed out, to utilise the funds already promised for this purpose. In view of the time factor I shall conclude with those remarks. I have very great pleasure in seconding the amendment moved by the honourable member for Farrer. 
Tonight I refer to a matter which has been very much in the news in recent times - namely, floods, and particularly the floods in Queensland. Firstly, I express sympathy to the families and relatives of those who lost their lives in the recent floods. I record my appreciation of the great services rendered by the helicopters and their crews. I make special reference to those helicopter crew members who lost their lives in an accident in my electorate when proceeding to a flood area to render the essential help that helicopters provided so well throughout the flood period. I also express my appreciation to all those who contributed in any way to flood relief. There were very many of them. I draw attention to the fact that the Premier of Queensland expressed appreciation yesterday. This was reported in the 'Courier-Mail'. I believe it is appropriate that similar sentiments be expressed in the Federal Parliament. 
During the period of the emergency floods extended over much of Queensland. In my own electorate I was constantly in communication with police inspectors in 3 areas comprising part of my electorate. Those officers were on duty whenever I sought to communicate with them, which included weekends. I pay tribute to the work performed by members of the police force generally. It should be noted that in Queensland the police force had the responsibility of deciding when emergency services, including helicopters, and other relief should be provided. I received, as no doubt did other members in other areas, close cooperation from members of shire councils, shire clerks and their staffs. These people also were available at weekends and whenever there was a necessity for them to be available. Postal officials, too, could have done no more than they did in providing information for those who were seeking it with the object of promoting the assistance that was required. I believe that this highlights again the very valuable role played by non-official post offices, many of which are listed for investigation with a view to their possible closure. 
I also was in contact with the section of police headquarters which was concerned with the control of operations in country areas. That section, too, could not have done more and could not have been more co-operative. The same comment applies to the Royal Australian Airforce Base at Amberley. On the occasions when I contacted that base everything possible was done. I was told that what was done on these occasions had to be authorised by the police inspector in the area concerned, and that is understandable because there has to be some centralised control. In that regard I think that we should look at the question of whether there should be an organisation which would perhaps allow more decentralised operation and exercise of authority. Nevertheless I think that in view of the results that were achieved what was done was of great credit to everybody, and the police were particularly concerned in this matter. 
I mention also the exceptionally widespread and very generous response which was made by people throughout Australia. This is very warmly appreciated by all Queenslanders particularly those who will benefit from the distribution. I trust that the distribution will be made throughout all the flooded areas of the State. I accept and appreciate the fact that grants have been made available for immediate relief for emergency house repairs, for major repairs and for re-building homes damaged beyond repair. While acknowledging what is being done I am particularly concerned about primary producers who have suffered losses, in many cases crippling losses as a result of these floods, I ask this Government and the Queensland Government to consider the terms and conditions of the loans and to make them as favourable as possible. 
I have information regarding some of the loans that have been made. I concede that they are being granted at concessional rates but one thing that concerns me a little is the length of the term for repayment of the loan. I believe that this is an important question because it is fairly obvious to anyone who has a knowledge of this problem that there will be a great shortage of stock for restocking purposes, a shortage of materials for rebuilding houses and sheds and a shortage of fencing material. If these materials were to be used in a comparatively short time it could apply a pressure which would make an even greater demand and perhaps force up the prices of those essential commodities. 
I urge both this Government and the Queensland Government, working together, to give full consideration to the possible extension of the term for repayment of these loans which I understand is 7 years, although I have been informed that under certain circumstances repayments may be waived for the time being and made during the remaining term of the loan. But in my opinion 7 years is not sufficient time in which to recover from a disaster of this kind. I make that point because I believe it is important. I stress that there will be great difficulty in getting stock for replacement purposes, and in that regard I have made the suggestion that when loans are approved the interest on those loans should apply only when the loan money is taken up. If this is done there will not be pressure on demand for the stock that are available for restocking purposes. 
As an example of the need and consequently the demand that will be engendered if short term loans result in more competition for available stock and materials I shall refer to some of the estimated losses. As yet these are only estimates and in all probability the losses will be greater. It was estimated in one shire alone in south-west Queensland that 88,000 sheep had been lost, but the sheep and wool adviser in that shire now estimates that the losses could reach 250,000 sheep. Also 1,000 cattle have been lost and no doubt the final figures will be higher. I have been told that some 400 miles of fencing and 200 dams have been washed away. Here again there will be a demand on the available capacity of the dam builders or tank constructors in those areas to make these repairs. 
I have endeavoured to be not critical of governments because I believe that there is a need for co-operation. I commend the Queensland Premier for his appreciation of the co-operation by the Federal Government but I hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will take note of what I am saying. I sent him a telegram because early in the piece it was obvious that very extensive fencing material would be required. I asked him to make a survey of the available fencing materials and if the requirements were not going to be met - and I did not think they would be met - to make some provision for the import of fencing materials so that the leeway could be made up. I hope that that leeway will be made up at the cost of locally produced materials. As of now the Prime Minister has not been able to give me that information but I hope that he will look into the matter because fencing materials will be very necessary particularly in the reconstruction and repair of pest fences. 
My time has just about expired but I want to repeat that there has been a great deal of team work. It will be necessary to take notice of the lessons that have been learned from the floods. I hope that more rainfall recording stations will be established along the rivers because these can give warnings of floods. I trust that a survey will be made that will enable the earliest possible advice to be given because the lack of early warning was one of the weaknesses in the flood situation in the capital city of Brisbane. I forgot to mention that loans will be required not only for primary producers but also for housing and for businesses. These loans will all come under this total scheme. The point I want to make is that while we still remember these tragic losses efforts should be made to do everything possible to carry out a survey in order to combat future disasters of this kind because as surely as night follows day such disasters will come again. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Mouse adjourned at 10.57 p.m. 
Did the Minister for Social Security publicly express an opinion that reserve funds of health insurance organisations should not be used for political purposes because they were collected for health purposes and may be subscribed by people who do not support the party being assisted? If he did make that statement, does he also subscribe to the view that moneys collected by unions should not be used for political purposes because they are, in effect, compulsory contributions and may be subscribed by people who do not support the political party being assisted? 
seemed to think that his time would be best served by making an attack on the Australian Country Party - a Party which is at its greatest strength ever. I predict that it will grow and increase in strength. It is rather interesting to note the attacks on the Country Party that come so consistently from the other side of the House. Apparently honourable members opposite realise the importance and the value of this Party to Australia and its danger to the Labor Party. That is what they are afraid of, otherwise they would not waste their time. They are political creatures and they want to save their seats. We have seen plenty of examples of self preservation being the strongest instinct coming from that side of the House and indeed from other sides of the House too, but at the same time we have never seen a greater example of the fear for the Country Party than that exhibited by the honourable member for Shortland. He showed good judgment in recognising the impact of the Australian Country Party. If it changes its name to the National Country Party of Australia it will have an even greater impact on the national scene. 
I do not want to waste any more time trying to refute some of the nonsense that has been talked tonight, but before leaving the speech made by the honourable member for Shortland I want to mention one thing - the deception that was practised when he said that the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  claimed that the rural industries had never had it better. As everybody knows, the honourable member for Gippsland was simply repeating a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Honourable members opposite are so short of arguments and so short of sound reasons for attacking the Country Party that they must try by deception - while the proceedings are being broadcast - to convince the Australian people that this thinking was instigated by the Country Party. It was a well deserved satire on the Prime Minister of this country, who knows little about the problems of the rural industry. The people who sit behind him know even less. 
Perhaps the greatest concern of the Australian people in all occupations and at all levels of income is the completely unacceptable rate of inflation. Because members of the Country Party have a broad national outlook it is on this subject that I wish to speak first. The Government condones the extremely high rate of inflation by stating simply that inflation is a world wide problem. That is the Government's only answer: It is a world wide problem so we cannot do anything about it and we are not going to try. The fact that it is a world wide problem - I do not deny that - only emphasises the necessity for all countries to face up to the problem, and this is just what the Australian Government has not done. A country with the great natural resources that Australia has should be able to give a lead to the world in how to control inflation, at least insofar as domestic policy is concerned. But what do we find coming from this Government which had the advantage of taking over an economy as sound as any economy in the world, which it ruined in its short term of a little over 12 months? 
I hear noises like that on the farm when they are killing pigs. It is a very similar noise. The Government continues to encourage the expansion of the Public Service. I am prepared to concede that there are very many dedicated people in the Public Service. The noise is still coming from over there, lt does not take that long to die out on the farm. In many fields the activities of the Public Service are essential for the opera tion of the government. We realise that. The majority of public servants are dedicated people. But that is no excuse for the rapid expansion of the Public Service which has taken place under this Government. What the Government does not seem to be able to accept is that unless inflation is controlled much more efficiently than this Government shows any indication of being able to do, all the increases in wages that have been brought about in the last 12 months and the increases in pensions will be engulfed by this inflation almost before they are in operation. Try to deny that if you can. Tell that to the people who are on wages. Tell the pensioners that you are going to increase pensions by about half of what is needed when you said you planned to bring pensions up to about a quarter of the average weekly earnings. Where have you got to? You have had to double your pension increases and even that will not be enough. Unless there is some evidence that this Government has the capacity to control inflation you will never catch up with that 25 per cent. 
We did a lot better than you did. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your confidence in my ability to make that speech. The Government has made some small effort to cut expenditure, but only in the rural sector. It has made cuts in expenditure in the rural areas alone, thereby compounding the problems of people living in rural areas of coping with the ever increasing burden of inflation. Measures to control inflation must be taken across the board if they are to be effective. They must include all sections of the community. Any measures that are taken to control inflation must not be sectionalised. They must be across the board, but the Government has not endeavoured to do that. What is has done is to sectionalise the reduction in expenditure entirely in the rural community. The measures must be taken across the board because all sections of the community will benefit from a lower rate of inflation. 
It is no good hiding behind the fact that this is' a world wide problem. That does not make it any easier. The opportunity is there for this Government, if it so desires, to follow the activities of the previous Government over those famous 23 years that honourable members opposite are always talking about. They are always telling us what happened over the last 23 years. In the last 23 years we did not see inflation galloping at the rate at which it has been galloping since this Government came into office. 
The honourable member talked some nonsense about that. The Government has not been able to cope with inflation since it came into office and, if it is in office much longer, what the honourable member is talking about now will fade into insignificance compared with the rate that we will see operating in this country. Employers and employees alike will suffer when the economy breaks down, as it surely will do unless the present rate of inflation is controlled. Surely the Government must recognise that fundamental factor. It cannot go on. We see examples throughout the world of what has happened when there has been no attempt to control inflation. The longer it goes on, the more drastic the measures will have to be and the more suffering there will be to bring this economy back to an even keel. 
I know that we will hear the cry: 'What are you going to do about it? Where are you going to cut expenditure? That is the parrot cry we hear. Honourable members over there are nodding their heads in agreement with that. They are asking the Opposition - which has been wrongly criticised by the Government all the time - for a remedy because they have none of their own. That is what they are asking for. They are not capable of finding one, so they are asking us to provide them with a blueprint to do it. It would not be of any use if we gave the Government all the details of it, because the union dominated Government would not accept the necessity for the measures that have to be taken to control inflation, even if that operated to its advantage. It is the working people, the people on the lower level of income, who will suffer most as a result of inflation. 
I have already said that I have no brief for any particular section of the community. I do not believe that there should be excessive profit making, but I do believe that it is essential that there must be profits for any industry to survive. We want reasonable profits, but at the same time we do not want and we cannot afford to have undue demands made on the economy by any section of the community, and this is what is taking place. The Government backs down every time it makes a stand. Every time it tries to do something to control inflation, and it does not do that often, it backs down because it is not game to face up to the union leaders, who often do not represent the opinion of the people in the unions they are supposed to represent. 
The continued expansion of Government expenditure adds correspondingly to demand inflation, and where goods are already in short supply this only accentuates the problem. I will cite something in the way of an example, because this is what honourable members opposite have been screaming for during the last 5 minutes. I believe that one thing that could be undertaken is an examination by the Government of its proposals in the building industry. Some projects need to be completed. There is need for Government expenditure in some areas where there is overcrowding. I accept that, but surely its program could be examined and where buildings are not urgently necessary the program should be delayed until some time in the future to lessen to some extent the extremely high demand for building materials which are needed in so many areas. They are needed for the reconstruction of flood damaged homes in many areas of Queensland and northern New South Wales and in other places. 
I am talking about homes. There are buildings in the Government's program. Does the honourable member not know anything about them? Apparently he does not know that the Government has a building program. If he looks at the references that come before the Public Works Committee he will see a list of the Government's building projects. If he looks at the Government's program for building he will find some of the things about which he is asking me. It is amazing to me that people on the other side who are criticising the Opposition and particularly the Country Party as constantly as they are, should look to us so consistently for advice. I appreciate the compliment that is being paid to me tonight by the members of the Australian Labor Party in asking me so many questions. Perhaps if they come to me when I have a little more time than I have now I will be prepared to give them the advice they so sorely need. 
Let me deal now with food prices. They have been blamed by the Government as a major factor in the increased cost of living, which of course is also having its effect in increasing inflation. From almost time immemorial the pressure of demand has forced up prices, so surely the Government should have taken measures to increase supply and so lessen demand. Surely that is an elementary factor. But what has the Government done? It has done just the opposite. It has removed the incentives for the production of food as if food was not wanted, never would be wanted and is out of date. Any amount of land has been brought into production as a result of the taxation concession whereas it would not have been an economic proposition to have dealt with that densely timbered country in any other way. Fencing, subdivision, and the provision of water could have been done without. In many areas the farmers could have carried on without it - I know this from experience - but they have done this because they have had some incentive to do it. But those incentives have been taken away. This Government has no idea of how to cope with this inflation. It does the opposite to what is required. Seldom has it been more necessary to encourage the production of food not only to ease demand but to fulfil the need of hungry and underfed people in many parts of the world. The Government, on top of removing the incentives to production by the reduction of the assistance given under the petroleum products price stabilisation scheme - do not forget that one - the removal of the bounty  on  superphosphate and the removal of taxation concessions for work done to improve production, has revalued the Australian currency until it is now a so over valued currency that it has acted to the great disadvantage of the exporting industries of this country, particularly primary industry. 
It is time that some honourable members knew what has happened to farm income. Honourable members opposite are basing the increase that has taken place in farm income on a time when it was at poverty level, when it was uneconomic, but people stayed on the land producing food because they hoped that times would change and they would be able to make some sort of profit from their properties. Using as a base this time when farm incomes were so low, uninformed people say that there has been a worth while increase in farm incomes, forgetting all the time that people on the land are still struggling with reconstruction debts. What is the debt owed to the Government by farmers under the rural reconstruction scheme? Until that is paid off and farmers get themselves on a sound basis, let honourable members opposite not cite a percentage of increase based on a completely uneconomic low level after years of difficulty and struggling along. Just to make it even harder for the rural producer to recover from droughts and low, world prices about which I have just spoken, the Federal and State governments, of necessity, introduced the rural reconstruction scheme, which the present Government carried on against its general ideas. 
The Government, by a change in country telephone lines policy, has made it financially impossible for many people to provide themselves with a telephone service. The Postmaster-General's Department now charges approximately $510 a mile to instal a telephone more than 5 miles radially from an exchange, so that a person living 15 miles from the exchange is faced with a cost of over $5,000 to instal a telephone, which is beyond the financial capacity of people living in rural areas in the circumstances in which they have had to live over recent years. No wonder we see a serious drift of population from our rural areas, particularly our developing rural areas where these telephone charges are most severely felt. Indeed, the bible of the Labor Party, the Coombs report, suggested that the radius, within which the Post Office would meet the cost of constructing a telephone line be reduced to 3 miles from the exchange. This would lift the cost of installation to a person living 15 miles from the exchange to $6,000. 
So it can be seen that the Government has no sympathy for or understanding of the problems of rural areas. It has no understanding of the measures needed to control the inflationary spiral which is such a serious matter for every resident of this nation. There is no intention on the part of this Government to do anything to try to control it. That has been said. All the Government says is that inflation exists in other parts of the world. All the Government says is that we will not have unemployment to reduce inflation. The Government can reduce inflation. The Country Party does not want to have unemployment to reduce inflation. We do not ask for that. What we ask for is sound, reasonable measures. We ask for some limitation of Government expenditure. It is not reasonable to expect people to go on producing food in outlying areas, let alone expand production to meet demand, unless they get some sort of reasonable treatment from the Government which has forgotten and neglected them. Let us look at the treatment of our outback rural producers in the Channel and Gulf country where a lot of food comes from. The cost of development and of subsidies for essential rural air services in 1972-73 was $2.8m, yet the estimated total budget outlay for 1973-74 was not less than $12, 168m. Out of that budget we could not afford to keep the essential and developmental rural air services working in the Channel and Guly country, which provides so much of the necessary food for this nation and for nations across the sea. That illustrates the thinking of this Government. In a letter I received only this week from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  the Minister states: 
This Government, upon reviewing the situation, decided that developmental service subsidies should be phased out over the period to 30 June 1977. It was also decided to take immediate action to reduce its commitment in this direction by 31 December 1973- 
So the letter goes on. I could have used more time because there are a few other subjects on which I would have liked to have touched, for example, the downgrading of our country postal services and country post offices. The Government, under pressure partly from the Australian Postmasters Association, reversed its decision on the Windorah Post Office. The Australian Postmasters Association put up the best case I have heard for the retention of the Windorah Post Office as an official post office. I accept their case, and I have quoted it in this House. I note that the status of Windorah is not to be changed, so the Government has stood down not because we put up a case so much as it was afraid of union action in relation to the proposal. This was a case that deserved the decision now arrived at. So I could go on about the shortcomings of this Government. My main theme tonight has been concerned with inflation. I hope I have convinced the people who are listening, even if I have not convinced those listening from the Government benches, that there are measures which could be taken across the board to control inflation. The Opposition, when in government for 23 years, controlled inflation. This Government has ruined the sound economy in about 12 months. Furthermore, the threat of what is yet to come is even worse. 
This Bill aims at continuing the wool research and promotion programs initiated in previous years by the Liberal-Country Party Government. From those programs in the past have flowed research studies which have lifted the productivity of growers, the economic efficiency of moving wool and its consequent marketing, and the processing of wool. From the funds diverted to promotion has come greater consumer acceptance of wool throughout the world, particularly as an apparel fibre. Basically, the changes in this Bill will mean that in 1974-75 the Government will contribute on an equal basis with wool growers towards the cost of both research and promotion. In 1975-76 and 1976-77 the Government will change the level of its contribution payments. I will have more to say on that later. In both these years the Government will pay 75 per cent of the cost of approved programs of wool research. However, it will provide only 25 per cent of the total funds for wool promotion on the ground that, as the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  said in his second reading speech, 'the benefits from promotion activity accrue more directly to producers than to other members of the community'. 
The Government will contribute on the basis of the following maximum levels: For 1974-75, $22m; for 1975-76, $20m; and for 1976-77, $21m. These figures have been rounded to the nearest $lm. In the same 3 years industry will contribute $23m, $30m and $32m. The breakdown of funds for wool research and promotion is shown in the table in the second reading speech. We see that in 1974-75 $13.2m will be spent on research, $29. 3m will be spent on promotion and $1.7m will be spent on marketing costs, making a total of $44.2m. In 1976-77 that figure will rise to $53. lm but the Government's total contribution will not rise. The contribution by the grower to the wool promotion and research scheme is by means of the Wool Tax Act. The present tax under the Act is 2.4 per cent. Because of the possibility of fluctuations in wool growers' returns, the Government has decided to raise the tax rate to 2.75 per cent - that is, 2.75 per cent of the value of wool shorn by a grower. 
Any surplus funds will be credited to the Wool Research Trust Fund, to which section 62 (a) of the Audit Act applies. A report on the operation of the Fund must be furnished to the Parliament annually, and any surplus does not flow to Consolidated Revenue but is held as a reserve against contingencies in any future year. I believe that is a good principle. It is needed as a safeguard. I hope that this policy will be continued in matters of this kind. The new wool tax rate will apply from 30 June and will be changed by alteration of the Wool Tax Regulations, which can be done by the Treasurer. At some stage during the currency of this new research and promotion scheme the question of the Government's contribution to the scheme is to be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission for examination and report. Whether there will be a new scheme after 1977 will be largely dependent on the report of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
The other amendments in the Bill deal largely with machinery measures which stem from the changing nature of the Corporation since its setting up by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972. For instance, the term 'interim  chairman'  is to be dropped; payment for members of the Corporation will be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, except for the Commonwealth's representative on the Board who is a senior public servant; and payments of remuneration will be made from the funds of the Corporation. 
The Wool Industry Policy Committee of the Australian Wool Industry Conference was advised some weeks ago of the provisions of the Bill. The Committee has expressed no objection to it. However, the point should be made that it is possible that after the Industries Assistance Commission has looked at the scheme towards the end of the current period it could be whittled down, that inflation will erode the financial efficiency of the program and that no commitment has been expressed by the Government to keep the program going at its projected rate if wool prices go down. The increase in the tax rate and the Labor Government's lowered financial interest overall in the scheme once again reflects its lack of appreciation of the contribution of farm industries. The funds used in research will need to be increasingly directed towards resolving production cost problems which, because of the Government's actions, are of critical importance to the producer. Those are some of the factors to which very serious consideration will have to be given. 
In dealing with this Bill I also want to make a few points that I believe must be taken into consideration by the Government when it takes the sort of action that it has taken in stepping down from the commitment to which it would have been committed if there had been no alteration. The wool industry's greatly improved position - I acknowledge that it has improved greatly, but it had to improve greatly otherwise those who are still in the wool industry would not have been able to carry on - is being eroded so fast by rising costs and falling prices that profitability in the wool industry could be very meagre in a comparatively short time. That is no flight of fancy. Costs are continually rising but prices are remaining static or falling. No one can accurately predict what will happen in the world markets. No one can -guarantee that prices will be any better in the future than they are at the present time. But there does not appear to be any indication of the Government taking any action to limit the excessive rate of inflation. 
The Government is doing nothing about reducing Government expenditure, except depriving rural areas of taxation concessions, depriving rural industry of the superphosphate bounty and limiting and eliminating the subsidies on developmental and essential rural air services, in addition to gathering in some extra revenue by imposing prohibitive charges on the installation of telephone services. The total revenue benefit to the Government from these measures is very small in relation to the total revenue (received by the Government. The Government is attempting to make a small saving on expenditure at the expense of a small section of the community. There does not appear to me to be any likelihood of a reduction in the future of the present crippling rate of inflation, which is going to fall very heavily on the rural community because it cannot pass on its increased costs. There will be a decreasing profitability in rural industry because of the extra costs that I have just enumerated. There will be decreasing profitability in the rural industry as a result of inflation, falling prices, droughts and floods. 
The cost to the wool grower of the measures envisaged in this Bill is highlighted by the figures given by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory in his second reading speech, which shows that under the present arrangements the Government will be finding $2 1.3m out of a total expenditure of $44.2m in 1974-75 on wool research and promotion but only $20.9m out of a total expenditure of $53. lm in 1976-77. In other words, while the expenditure on wool research and promotion will increase by some $8. 9m in 2 years the Government's contribution will fall by $400,000. That is the approach which the Government is adopting in its efforts to squeeze a little bit more out of rural industry. All in all the financial arrangements in this Bill are just another example of the con.santly demonstrated policy of the Government of bleeding rural industry with every consideration or reconsideration of rural policy. Those are the figures. There is no getting away from them. They are set out in the Minister's second reading speech for anyone to see. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  ran on in very technical terms, but he forgot to mention that the people, who have to provide this money will have to get it in their incomes in the first place if they are to continue to provide it. 
I think it is a crying shame that this action has been taken by the Government so soon after the long years in which the wool industry suffered so severely. The wool industry is only just recovering from those years of suffering. It has also been hit recently in many areas by really devastating floods. I am not dramatising the position; I am stating cold, hard facts. I do not know why the Government could not have continued to contribute to wool research and promotion at the same rate as previously. Surely it would not have hurt the Government to have gone on doing that for the next 3 years. That additional expenditure would not have been a major issue in the whole Budget strategy. Why, every day one sees the costs of the Government rising at an unprecedented rate. I am not arguing the merits of some of the increased Government expenditure. All I am saying is that the Government is prepared to carry the burden of those increased costs but it is not prepared to do something about promoting a very worth while industry which contributed very much to the soundness of the national economy before the present Government came to office. 
The wool industry fs now being treated in such a way as to raise doubts whether the Government is very concerned about its continued existence. If the Government were concerned, surely it would not have decided to chisel this extra amount of money away from the wool growers at a time when they are only just recovering from poor seasons. The important point is that the Government is prepared to take this money from the pockets of the wool growers despite the fact that many of them are still in the throes of trying to meet the debts which they incurred in the periods of drought and low prices. There is no one, however efficient he might be, who could have done anything to prevent losses over those periods. The industry is at present carrying half of the cost of the research and promotion work. Why could the Government not have carried the other half of the cost for a little longer? The point I want wool growers to realise is that this measure is going to cost them extra money. The wool growers will have to meet the additional burden of an increased expenditure of $8.9m while the Government will be reducing its commitment by $400,000. I believe that that is an indictment on the Government. It is another example of the Government's lack of consideration for rural industries - in this case the wool industry. 
I support the comments of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  when he paid a very well deserved tribute to the scientists who are operating in this field. There is no doubt that there are many people who are very dedicated to their work. I very sincerely join the honourable member for Corangamite in the tribute he has paid to them. I would like to include also in that tribute a reference to the dedication of those officers in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and in the departments of primary industry in the various States with whom I have had dealings. I have found that they are in the main - there are probably exceptions to the general rule - completely dedicated to trying to promote the welfare of primary industry and that they do not spare themselves when there is need for a special effort in that direction. 
This Bill is necessary to enable the continuation of the very essential wool research and promotion program. It is indeed with very great regret that I note the Government is taking the opportunity to make it just a little tougher for people who engage in primary industry to survive. 
The speech made by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the great majority of the speech made by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  would have been very suitable evidence to have brought before the Public Works Committee when it was inquiring into this particular project. We are objecting to the manner in which this matter has been brought before the Committee. It is completely out of line with the way in which a reference normally is given to the Committee. What I wish to point out as a member of the Public Works Committee and what the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who is  Deputy Chairman  of the Public Works Committee was pointing out is the unusual basis upon which the matter was brought forward. That is the point at issue. 
I am not arguing and I am sure the honourable member for Wakefield was not arguing tonight about the merits or demerits of this case. We are quite happy to have this matter come before the Public Works Committee. AH the preliminaries that the Postmaster-General referred to may have been necessary. I do not know whether they were, but probably they were. The point is: Why should this matter be referred to the Public Works Committee when, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  it is a political move. I believe that it is, too. That is the reason why I believe the honourable member for Wakefield made his point. 
The honourable member for Wakefield pointed out that when a similar matter was raised before and the Public Works Committee was in fact ignored, as it is now, by the former Prime Minister, the present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  made great play of it and there was no political issue about it at the time. It was simply a matter of principle. When the Government attempts to break a principle - this has been ventilated quite clearly - and where publicity can be given to actions that the Government intends to take just prior to an election, we ask why the matter was brought to the Public Works Committee without the documents being ready. On the only occasion that this was ever done before evidence was given that the documentation would be available in 10 to 12 weeks. All of these things which have been said about the preparation may be so, but they are irrelevant to what we are arguing about. 
We are asking why this matter was put before the House in a way which has not been adopted with any of the other references. Why did we not wait 10 or 12 weeks until documentation was ready? This is the way it is normally done when projects are presented for consideration by the Public Works Committee. There is no urgency concerning the 10 or 12 weeks on this project. So why was it brought up? 
I agree. So, why was it presented today? One has to look for the logical reason. The reason was, I submit, to give publicity and political advantage to this Government in the State election and also in the Senate elections because of what it is going to do for the Western Australians. 
The Minister is interjecting. Let me quote something which he said on 24 May 1972. This matter was also referred to by the honourable member for Wakefield. The Minister said: 
What an incredible thing! 
This is the Minister who is sitting at the table who introduced this matter. He said: 
The Prime Minister is prepared to pre-empt so far as the Public Works Committee, which has also engaged in a prodigious amount of effort, is concerned, and is able, to use his words, to turn round and foreclose on the options of the Public Works Committee; but in the same breath he said that he would not be prepared to do that in regard to the Randall Committee. Who are we in this Parliament? It is only a committee of the Parliament that he is prepared to pre-empt. 

 Mr Duthie interjected and said that it was sheer politics. It was sheer politics and the Public Works Committee was not ignored to anything like the extent that it has been on this occasion. The Public Works Committee agreed on this matter. We agreed with what the Minister for Housing and Construction said. It was right that the Public Works Committee should not be pre-empted. 
I pay tribute to the honourable member for Wakefield, who was  Chairman  of the Committee and a supporter of the Government at that time, for the stand he took then. It was very similar to the stand which he has taken tonight. He took a stand then on that principle and on that principle alone - not on the merits of the work at all. I believe that on this occasion the stand has been taken by the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Curtin for the same reason. I refer now to the pre-empting and to a joint statement issued by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam;  the Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin;  and the Lord Mayor of Perth,  Mr Lee-Steere.  The statement reads: 
The Prime Minister promised the creation of the new Forrest Place Plaza at an election meeting in Forrest Place shortly before the 1972 Federal elections. 
That would not be political, would it? The statement continues: 
The Western Australian Government has actively supported the proposal in negotiations over the transfer of land. The Australian Government will transfer to the City Council the land on which Padbury Building now stands and the building will be demolished. 
I suppose that will occur irrespective of what the Public Works Committee has to say. The statement continues: 
Forrest Place will be widened- 
As the Postmaster-General said - and public space will be increased significantly. This is irrespective of whether the Public Works Committee agrees. The statement continues: 
The old Central Hotel structure will be demolished as well as the Padbury Building and the new Administrative Centre will be erected on part of the sites and part of the northern section of Forrest Place. 
That will occur, I presume, irrespective of whether we approve of the site or not. Could a committee be pre-empted more than that? Could a committee of this Parliament be ignored more completely than has been the case in this particular instance? 
The fact is that all these proposals can be prepared and documented - and no one should know it better than the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  who is at the table - and then put before the Public Works Committee, as they usually are. Why has it been put up 10 to 12 weeks before there is a possibility of our being able to examine the plans and the proposal or to call evidence and so examine the plans and the proposal? The reason why it is normal for these proposals to be presented to. the. Public Works Committee with the plans and the  documentation is that we can call evidence then, when we have time to have a hearing, and that evidence is available to the public. We cannot do anything until we get that documentation except look at the site; that is the one thing we could do. But we are already told in this document what is to be the site. So we are pre-empted as far as the site is concerned. There will be a delay of 10 to 12 weeks - and from experience it could be longer than that. We have often waited on plans. The Minister for Housing and Construction knows as well as I do that we have often expected plans long before they arrive. So in all probability - although this stir up might hurry them along a bit - the plans will not be there for 10 to 12 weeks. However, as a result of this debate they might be brought forward. I submit that much of the evidence given here tonight should have been given before the Public Works Committee, if the Public Works Committee is to act as it should. 
During my 4 or more years on this Committee, the. Committee has never divided on party lines. I understand that this has happened over the years. As the honourable member for Wakefield said, we are proud of the tradition of the Committee. I pay full tribute to the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  for his impartially and to every member from every party for the way they have handled proposals that have come before the Public Works Committee. With that record behind the  Deputy Chairman  of the Public Works Committee  (Mr Kelly)  does the Parliament or the public of this country think that he would be on his feet talking as. he did if he did not feel that he had sound reasons for doing it? I might submit that I too would not be talking without a sound reason, because it is not a practice in which we have indulged. I pay tribute tonight to the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who stood alone in one reference. Finally we had to come back to his way of thinking. That was the type of action we have taken. If we are to take a party political line the real advantage, the great work of the Public Works Committee, and indeed that of any of the joint committees, will be lost. They are the watchdogs for the public over the Commonwealth expenditure on matters that are referred to the committees. We give the people an opportunity to come before us and if we cannot adopt a reasonably impartial attitude, as we should, then the Committee would not work as effectively as it should. That is the basis of the objection we raise. 1 say that this reference would not have been presented to this Parliament today except that the Government thought it might gain some political advantage from it. Otherwise, why do it? If the Minister for Housing and Construction is to reply, I ask him to tell us why it has been brought before the Parliament at this time. What is the advantage of bringing it before the Public Works Committee at this time? Why is every reference not given to us immediately, if this is the practice and the policy that the Government is to adopt towards the Public Works Committee? 
It is with very great regret that I have to take part in the debate and talk as I have. The matter will now be up to the Public Works Committee and to the members from the Government side. I feel that they will be able to overcome this hurdle. We are faced with the Government trying to take party political advantage in a committee and thereby destroying the value of the committee. That is the basis of my argument. The PostmasterGeneral's remarks, as far as I am concerned, were completely irrelevant, as were the great majority of the remarks made by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  At this stage I am not concerned whether the plan is good or bad. My job on the Public Works Committee, is to look at proposals in an impartial way to see whether the money proposed for them is being spent correctly, whether there is likely to be excessive expenditure, whether the site is a good one or that that is where the construction ought to be sited. These are the sorts of things that every member of the Public Works Committee does. To bring the matter on today 10 to 12 weeks before documentation is available to us is a blatant endeavour to gain some political advantage and we would not be worth our places on this Committee if we did not expose the Government's action in this House. 
 I believe it is very important that Anzac Day should continue to maintain its importance in the national calendar. I believe that the great majority, if not all, of the members on both sides of the House accept Anzac Day as one of our great national days. The commemoration of Anzac Day, the paying of tribute to all who have served Australia in the various theatres of war, continues even in very small towns throughout the Commonwealth. It is therefore a matter of regret to me that the sittings of this Parliament on the eve of Anzac Day could prevent members of the Federal Parliament from fulfilling commitments on Anzac Day in their own electorates. Because of this I have already sent the following telegram to the Minister for Services and Property and 
Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam): 
Strongly, protest against Parliament sitting on 24 April. This could prevent me and no doubt other members from fulfilling commitments in their own electorates on Anzac Day. Government proposals show little appreciation of the importance of Anzac Day to the Australian people throughout the nation. 
Although I have been advised that it is the intention of the House to rise early on Wednesday, 24 April, this would not enable me to reach my home town in order to fulfil an engagement that I have accepted to be guest speaker at Anzac Day celebrations in my home town. I accepted the invitation to be guest speaker on that day because, as previously listed, Parliament was to sit the week preceding the week in which Anzac Day falls and the week in which Anzac Day falls was to have been a week when the House was not sitting. I register my protest that arrangements which probably allow metropolitan members to be in their electorates on Anzac Day but which deny that privilege to members who live in outlying areas are just not good enough in relation to a day as important as Anzac Day. The previous tentatively allocated sitting days notified were 17, 18 and 19 April, and the House was then not to sit during the week in which Anzac Day falls. I would like to know from the Minister why this program was altered to the disadvantage of members from outlying areas who want to be in the electorates for the celebration of Anzac Day. I believe that the matter I have raised should be considered. I believe that those members who live in outlying parts of this Commonwealth deserve consideration on such a day as Anzac Day. I raise this point with the Minister and register my protest against what I believe is a lack of recognition of the importance of Anzac Day and a lack of recognition of the needs of members from outlying areas. 
I raise another matter tonight with regard to road safety. I welcome the grant of $3m to be spent on improving specific dangerous locations so as to prevent accidents from happening. I believe that every honourable member should support this objective. I certainly will co-operate to the fullest extent in promoting road safety, and with the co-operation of local authorities in the areas which I represent I will endeavour to do the best I can to comply with the wishes of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to have made known to him those locations, and perhaps the priority of locations, in certain areas which need attention. Nevertheless I wonder why the Minister has asked Federal members to report directly to him rather than Federal members making their approaches through the local authorities and the State Governments to the Minister, thus utilising the knowledge of the area and the expertise that local authorities could bring to bear in determining priorities. From my experience in local (government I am convinced that local government authorities can utilise funds made available to them to the advantage of the community even more effectively than either State or Federal governments, because they are closer to the people. I suggest that local government authorities utilise the funds that are made available to them to the best possible advantage of the people they are intended to benefit. 
would urge the Minister again, as I have done when he has previously put up proposals to try to minimise road accidents - as I said before, I commend that objective very warmly - to consult both State traffic authorities and local government authorities before any program of work to improve road safety throughout Australia is decided upon. I say this quite seriously and sincerely because I believe there is a need for co-ordination in road safety programs as the toll from road accidents throughout this Commonwealth grows. Co-ordination will serve the best interests of the objective that the Minister aims at achieving. I have been requested to leave a few minutes available for some other  speaker,  and I am happy to accede to that request. 
Rarely have I heard more political humbug than has come from the Government side of the House in regard to this matter. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  knows very well the objectives and the aims of, as well as the need for, a Public Works Committee. But what has this Government done? The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has just said that the Government will go ahead with this proposal without referring it to the Public Works Committee. Let me ask him why we have a Public Works Committee? If he does not know the answer it is time that somebody told him. The reason that we have a Public Works Committee is to give people in the area where work is being done the opportunity to voice their opinions. I am surprised that the Minister for Housing and Construction would support such a measure because he, above all people, as a member of the Public Works Committee, was a champion of the rights of the little people to have a voice in big government expenditure. The Minister for civil aviation, or transport or whatever his portfolio is at the moment, has another think coming if he thinks that the decision as to whether the people should have a voice in what work is to be done should be at the whim of the Government. If the position in regard to the present building is even half as bad as the Minister for Housing and Construction outlined today in this House, then it is an indictment on the Government for not moving earlier. Furthermore, although I hesitate to say this - but the way in which -the debate has been conducted I am forced to do so - it is not only an indictment of the Minister but it is an indictment of the Labor members in the Brisbane metropolitan areas which this provision is designed to serve. If the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  knew as much about this proposal as the Minister for Housing and Construction said he knew, what did the honourable member do about approaching his own Government on it? What was the answer that he got from the Minister for Housing and Construction or the Minister for Transport? If he did not get a satisfactory answer from the Government why did he not raise this matter in the House, perhaps in the adjournment debate? I do not think that the position is quite as bad as has been painted by the Government. I think that there is certainly a need for a new terminal. The people of Queensland have waited for many years for many things. We have waited for this terminal. The Ministers who spoke today are among those who have helped to keep expenditure in the lower part of the Commonwealth during the term of this Government. It is only fair that they are now to lose those ministerial cars and ministerial perks that got them up on their feet today with such vigour and determination to support the construction of this terminal. The Government was not in any immediate hurry to bring on this proposal before the double dissolution was suggested. But I believe that the suggestion of a double dissolution was the reason why the proposal was brought forward. The Minister for Housing and Construction should know that there would not need to be the delay he has spoken of as a result of this work being referred to the Public Works Committee. Consideration of this reference could have been expedited. 
An interjection has been made to the effect that the Committee is to be dissolved today. If that is the case another Public Works Committee will be set up immediately the other government comes back. Even the Minister for Transport said that he does not yet have all the material concerning the proposal. I heard him out of his own mouth assure this House that the Government cannot go on with the proposal immediately because it does not have the necessary information. But there is no reason why the proposal should not be referred to the Public Works Committee. The object was pure political propaganda. 
My main objective in speaking today is to try to preserve the traditions of the Public Works Committee. I agree with the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  that the Committee has been a watchdog - I have used that word before - for the people generally throughout this Commonwealth when public moneys of a specified amount are to be spent by the Commonwealth Government. What is happening in this House today is a complete undermining of that very great tradition, that principle which lasted until this Government came into office. If the airport building is as bad as honourable members opposite say it is, if it has been eaten by white ants and if it has been a great fire hazard for 16 months why has the Government allowed it to continue? If the Government had received the advice of the honourable members who say that they know all about it the Government should not have allowed it to continue. If the Labor Party had moved earlier when it came into government it might have had some excuse for taking this action, but it has no excuse for taking it after 16 months of dilly dallying until the Government became nervous about what was going to happen to some of its members in Brisbane. 
The Ministers know this as well as I do. They are well aware of it. But that is not so bad. I do not mind the Government being worried about that. I do not mind it doing everything it can to assist its members. What I am concerned about is the undermining of a Committee which is the protection of the people of the Commonwealth. The Committee will degenerate into nothing but a Party political group, lt will lose the value that it has had over the years. That is what I am so disappointed about. I am sure that the Minister for Housing and Construction in his own heart must regret  -  I would be disappointed in him if he did not - the disappearance of the Public Works Committee as a great protector of the smaller people of the Commonwealth. It is the small people of the Commonwealth in whom the Australian Country Party is so vitally interested. Ours is a great national party. We will protect the interests of the people. We will preserve the Public Works Committee. That is why I am on my feet now - to preserve the integrity of the Public Works Committee, to keep it at a level above Party politics and to keep it free to investigate all the measures that the Government will bring in. 
I regret that those 2 Ministers, when they sit over on this side of the House, will not be able to say 'We must not bring politics into it', because they have already brought politics in. That is the great tragedy of the situation. There is no excuse at all for not referring the matter to the Committee. The Minister for Housing and Construction said himself that the investigations are still going on. If there is an urgency for this matter to come before the Public Works Committee, I am sure that immediately the House is reassembled the Public Works Committee will deal with it as expeditiously as possible, lt would then be ahead of the preparations required to build this terminal. The Government's action is simply a cheap political endeavour to gain some votes. I suggest that if it is publicised in this way it will react, as it should react, against the very members it is designed to serve. 
It is interesting to hear the treatise of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who just sat down, and who has a record of defying parliamentary procedure by not leaving the House when he was suspended. This is the man who got up as the great proponent of the rights of the honourable members of this House. Although suspended he sat in his place with Australian Labor Party members around him. He would not go. He would not abide by the orders of the House until the  Speaker  had to suspend the sitting. That is the record of the Minister for the Capital Territory. So he certainly should not be speaking about who is to be the  Speaker  in this House when hehimself will not obey the  Speaker.  As my friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  asked: How much notice can one take of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  when he has said in this House that honourable members of the Australian Country Party have never been elected on the first ballot? It was proved to him that they have been. My friend said that the Minister tried to change Hansard, but in any case the Minister has never withdrawn that allegation and it still stands to his discredit. 
Those 2 Ministers are the people who are backing the Government nominee. How much 12 REPRESENTATIVES 9 July 1974  Mr Speaker  notice can be taken of them? How much worse they are by comparison with the honourable member for Angas who has done his duty as  Deputy  Whip of his Party and has done it well. There are times, as everyone in this House would know, when the gag has to be moved, and it is moved by the  Deputy  Whip on so many occasions. To accuse the honourable member for Angas of being unfair because he did something which is generally accepted and which was necessary on occasions is unfair in the extreme. I think that the Minister for Services and Property said that the Government's nominee was the most outstanding  Speaker.  I think that he was just slightly out. He should have said that he was the most out-sending  Speaker  because he sent so many people out of this Parliament in the course of his time as  Speaker.  On at least one occasion he did not give a warning. I believe that to be tolerant and impartial a  Speaker  should give a warning to an honourable member before he is suspended unless the honourable member is acting completely irresponsibly in the circumstances. That did not apply on the occasion I have in mind. 
So there are reasons why we on this side of the House are nominating the honourable member for Angas, who we feel is eminently suited to fill this very responsible and honourable position. The fact that the Opposition did not nominate someone on the last occasion is not any indication that we, after having served in the previous Parliament under the previous  Speaker,  should not now nominate someone if we are not satisfied with the impartiality of the  Speaker  of the last Parliament. That is our right. That is our duty if we feel that it is necessary and I believe that in the nomination of the honourable member for Angas we have chosen someone who would be impartial and who would be able to fulfil the responsible position of  Speaker  of this House with credit to himself and to the great advantage of this Parliament. I have very much pleasure in supporting the nomination of the honourable member for Angas. 

 Mr Giles, 57 votes.  Mr Cope  is therefore declared elected. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Is he aware of the serious threat posed to crops and pastures by the large numbers of locusts still being reported in many parts of Queensland and New South Wales and possibly other States? If so, will the Australian Government provide without delay the financial assistance to enable control measures to be continued? Can the Minister inform the House whether Australian Government assistance for the control of locusts has been limited to what is known as the Australian plague locust and no finance has been made available for the spur-throated locust which also poses a very serious threat to crops and pastures and which has now been declared a noxious insect by the New South Wales Government? If this is so, will the Minister take steps to rectify this absurd position and extend whatever assistance is granted by the Australian Government to cover all locusts where they are in plague proportions, as the matter is urgent? Finally, has a request been received recently from the Queensland Government for finance for this purpose? 
As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  explained in his second reading speech, the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill 1974 is designed to provide for an extension of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act for a period of 2 years pending the introduction of permanent legislation. As the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said, the Opposition is recommending, as I understand it, that this time be shortened to 31 March 1975. To hear the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  talking one would think that the idea of providing a scheme of permanent employment was not a desirable thing. Already we have had a period of 12 months in which these negotiations could have taken place. If the Government is sincere in wanting to provide a scheme of permanent employment for the stevedoring industry it should tell us what is the trouble. Why does the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  not tell us where he is running into all this trouble? 
I am not by any means convinced that the people who sit on the opposite side of the House, or indeed the trade union leaders, always represent or even often represent the opinion of the people who are working in industry. But even if they did, why does the Government want all this time? Why is it necessary to take all this time to reach an agreement to provide something which the Government claims it wants to provide - a scheme which in the main will provide permanent employment on weekly hiring watersiders in major ports? What the Opposition asks is that the Government gets on with the job of providing something which, as I understand it, honourable members on both sides of the House seem to want. 
I do not for one moment take the attitude that all the things that are desired for the people engaged in the stevedoring industry come from the other side of the House. On this occasion the Opposition is anxious to see that they receive the benefits contained in the Bill. The Opposition is asking only that the scheme be completed in a reasonable time. If the Government cannot complete it in a reasonable time - that is, by 31 March - let it say why it cannot. Let the Government admit its incompetence in this field. Let it admit that it is not able to continue the negotiations with the Waterside Workers Federation. If the Government has the competence that it claims to have, or the goodwill, it should be able to reach the agreement in that time. 
Finally, if the Opposition is satisfied that the Government has made every effort to reach that agreement, it will not obstruct the Government in trying to obtain an extension of time. All the Opposition asks for is that the Government does a reasonable job in this field. That is why we have imposed this time limit. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, it may come well before that time anyhow, and he is not precluded from achieving that if it is possible. He said that an earlier date for permanent legislation was desirable. Of course it is. We agree. But we want to see the Government urged on to do something about it. 
As I have said, the Opposition has no basic objection to this legislation. The introduction of this Bill, however, gives the opportunity to point out one or two things which have a bearing on reaching the type of agreement which is desirable. I refer to some of the factors that are probably causing difficulty in arriving at what would be the best conditions under which permanent engagement can be provided. As I see them, two of the problems are port congestion and industrial disputes. These are causing friction all the time. The newsletter of the Chemical Importers and Exporters Council has highlighted industry dissatisfaction with the position and the lack of forward planning. That is what the Opposition is asking for. Port facilities in Sydney, Melbourne and other major shipping ports are inefficient. This adds to the difficulties and the losses caused by industrial disputes. 
I want to say something generally about the importance of our port facilities. The import boom, as a consequence of the 25 per cent tariff reduction and extensive revaluation of the Australian dollar, has led to a dramatic import upsurge that has taxed the outdated facilities to the full and has led to extensive lags in the chain between export delivery and retail outlet. These are the sorts of things the Opposition wants to see improved for the benefit of the people working on the waterfront and for the benefit of the Australian community. The Stevedoring Authority itself is responsible for employment in the stevedoring sector of the industry and seems to have been reasonably successful in that field. I am sure that the Authority is anxious to reach agreement if the Government shows the same initiative as it pretends to show. 
However, the industry itself is plagued - even the honourable member for Burke admitted this - by a continuing high level of industrial unrest often resulting from demarcation disputes between unions. The level of these and other disputes on the waterfront can be illustrated by the fact that in the first 2 months of this year 100,000 man hours were lost as a result of unauthorised stoppages, compared with 40,400 for the same period last year. This shows the tremendous importance of trying to achieve some harmony on the waterfront. That is what the Opposition is trying to do for the benefit of all concerned. If honourable members want some examples of how this problem is hitting everybody let me quote from the Newcastle 'Morning Herald' of yesterday, 17 July. An article headed 'Silo troubles hit sorghum growers' goes on to say: 
Shipping delays in Newcastle had cost sorghum growers $350,000 since April, an official of a rural firm claimed yesterday. 
That was  Mr Thorburn  of the Farmers and Graziers Co-operative Co. Ltd. The article continues: 
Continuous industrial trouble is delaying deliveries, affecting sales and accentuating storage problems. 
Surely we want to achieve harmony on the waterfront. I believe that the permanent employment provisions will contribute to that harmony. In the same newspaper there is an article headed 'Sorghum ship's 33-day wait off port'. Surely we must try to avoid these sorts of things. The article reported that Captain Son of the 'Maritime Brilliance' had loaded 12,000 tonnes of sorghum in Brisbane before coming to Newcastle and it had taken one day to load the cargo in Brisbane. He had been told that even when the silo workers resumed there would be a delay in getting this ship away because much of the cargo was still in country storages. I know that that is another problem. 
I say in fairness to the waterside workers that it is not all their problem, but it is absurd that we are in a position in this day and age where a ship will have to wait 33 days. That will mean an enormous cost to the exporters, the importers and the shipowners. The cost will eventually be passed back to the Australian public. It will hit the people whom honourable members opposite claim to represent as hard as it will hit anybody. 
As I mentioned, the high level of industrial friction that we are trying to avoid has been exacerbated by dissension over wage increases as a natural response to crippling inflation and taxation, largely brought about by the incompetent economic policies of this Government and its inability to handle them. The 13,500 waterside workers were recently offered $22.50 a week increase as well as a fixed link to the increase in average weekly earnings. So they can scarcely say that their claims have been ignored. In fact they have been well treated. However, it is the question of port inefficiency that I am stressing, as well as the question of industrial disputes. 
Inherent in the logic of the Government's efforts to stimulate imports is the assumption that the increased tonnage from overseas suppliers could be made available for Australian consumers. That is a desirable objective. But what has happened? In retrospect it seems to have been naive on the part of the Government to assume that a price stimulation could readily be translated into an increased volume available to the community without taking into account the lags in the shipping process. Waterside hold-ups are one of the major factors of this. As a result of the overtaxing of our port facilities the imports that will eventually become available will have been subjected to the higher costs of wharfage and storage, in addition to the costs of industrial troubles. As I say, that is all passed back to the Australian community. They are the people about whom we are concerned. They are the people whom the Government should be considering, even in this Bill. 
I realise that this area is essentially under the jurisdiction of State governments through such bodies as the New South Wales Maritime Services Board. Nevertheless, I think it is important to point out that there appears to be strong evidence that national priority should be devoted to forward planning in our port facilities in association with future expectations of trade and to the provision of financial assistance to upgrade those facilities for the benefit of the Waterside Workers Federation and for the benefit of the Australian people. I have mentioned the delays that occur. There are plenty of examples. I will cite one more example. The Port of Sydney, which serves as a port as well as a harbour, is limited in size to the tonnage of ship with which it can cope. The limitation on a tanker of 70,000 tons appears somewhat ridiculous when it it considered that Japan has a 1 million ton tanker on the drawing board. We want to see the Government exercise some forward planning. Let it show that it has some efficiency by completing this agreement in the time suggested in the amendment which will be moved in the Committee stage of the Bill. There are many examples of problems in Melbourne and Tasmania. 
This area is very important, as policy measures in relation to imports and exports must be associated with policy decisions regarding the facilities to handle them and with giving conditions to the waterside workers to enable them to provide the service to the community that I believe they themselves desire to give. I trust that the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Labor and Immigration are working in close co-operation - perhaps that is too much to hope for from this Government - on the associated aspects of future port upgrading and labour relations. In fairness, let me say that I do not pretend for a moment that the causes of industrial trouble and port congestion are simple. They are deep-rooted and complex, and generalisations can be misleading on a highly technical subject such as this. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Opposition generally have considered this matter and have given what we regard as a reasonable time and more than sufficient time for the Government to achieve the objective which we are aiming to achieve and which I hope the Government will try to achieve too. Nevertheless, I think it is a subject to which more priority should be given and on which a greater degree of Commonwealth-State cooperation would not go amiss. 
To conclude, let me say that I see no fundamental objection to this Bill, and I am sure the Opposition does not either; but I draw attention to employment in this industry and the costly level of industrial trouble, as exemplified recently by the ships' engineers strike. It is no good the Minister for Labor and Immigration saying, as he did in a speech in June, that industrial conflict is a natural consequence of our economic system. It may be a natural consequence of the economic policies of the Government. Such a passive acceptance of a problem that is so costly in economic, social and human terms is disgraceful. I trust that the review of the stevedoring operations will provide a sound basis for future stability in this industry to the advantage of those engaged in it, the importers and exporters and, through them, the community as a whole. 
As a representative of a large number of wool growers, I am very deeply concerned about the claim that was made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  that 3 members of the Australian Wool Corporation had stooped to the level of completelydisregarding their responsibilities as members of the Corporation by conspiring with the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  and thereby placing in jeopardy the welfare of the people engaged in the wool industry, in order to promote an attitude within the Corporation in regard to price levels for wool that was designed only to embarrass the Government. 
The honourable member said that he has evidence which will substantiate his claim. I think that this is something which should be clarified. 
It is a matter of great regret to me that this matter was not cleared up when the opportunity to do so arose today. I also regret that the honourable member is not present in the chamber. Representations were made to me about this matter and I tried to send word to the honourable member that I was going to discuss it. I will admit that it was very late in the evening that the representations were made. I am concerned about the effect that the honourable member's claim will have on the wool industry and, indeed, on the wool market generally, because it is a very serious claim. It suggests that the Australian Wool Corporation is not using its commercial judgment in order to arrive at the price it should arrive at as a floor price for the wool that is being sold. 
As you know,  Mr Speaker,  the honourable member and other members of the Australian Labor Party had an opportunity to discuss this matter in Parliament today. I must say that it is to the very great discredit of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and the Labor Party that they refused to accept the challenge to debate this matter and shirked the issue. This matter is so vitally important to so many of my constituents and to so many people throughout Australia that I was very disappointed that such a debate did not take, place. I had not intended to raise this matter at this time but representations were made to me on it and I felt that, since this is the last time that I will have an opportunity to debate it before the House meets again next Tuesday, I should raise the matter. It is a serious matter that cannot be swept under the carpet simply by the actions that were taken today. I believe that the light of day should be placed on it. I believe that it is very necessary to have the matter finalised. Indeed, if the honourable member for Eden-Monaro has evidence to substantiate his claims I think that he has a responsibility to put that evidence before this chamber. A matter as serious as this one deserves to be given the light of day. It is not a matter that should be allowed to be lightly brushed aside. 
A very grave reflection has been cast upon the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of my Party. As I see it, a very grave reflection also has been cast upon every member of the Austra lian Wool Corporation because, as far as I know, the honourable member has not named the 3 members to whom he was referring. 1 feel that I must ask why that was done. One can only assume that there is a reason for it. While the reason remains unresolved and while nothing further is done, people will be asking questions about the matter. In fairness to himself, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro should have disclosed the evidence that he claimed he had. I know that until it is disclosed people are going to ask themselves whether he has any evidence at all or whether he has just made a trumped up charge with the object of gaining some cheap political capital out of the attitude that he has taken. 
Is it just a scheme to try to denigrate the Country Party? Only too often I have seen very savage attacks made in this House by members of the Australian Labor Party on members of the Australian Country Party. The Australian Country Party seems to have been specially selected by the Labor Party for attack. I do not mind having to take the normal criticisms that are made in the rough and tumble of politics. I am quite prepared to take them, and to give them. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I repeat that it is with very great regret that I have raised this matter in this light. I have done so only because 1 believe that 1 have a responsibility to do so. I have asked the question. I am sure that all people will be asking it. Has the honourable member for Eden-Monaro any evidence. Is it a scheme to denigrate the Leaders of the Country Party? Has the honourable member made these allegations because of his bitter opposition to the Australian Wool Corporation and all that it means to the great Australian wool industry and to the people of this country who are engaged in the industry? If he has evidence, I say without equivocation that he has the clear duty and the responsibility to produce it to the House. The cowardly action which was taken today cannot be justified. I blame the Labor Party completely in this regard, and I blame the honourable member for EdenMonaro for sheltering under the protection of the Party when the opportunity was given to him today to discuss this matter in full. 1 believe that the position was made much more serious because the Leader and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, men whose standing in this country is as high as that of any politician in Australia, have completely denied the allegations. They did so before the opportunity was given to the Labor Party and to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to disclose their proof. But the honourable member sheltered under the protection of the Labor Party. I say that it is a disgrace to the ALP. Until the honourable member proves that what he said is right, the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of my Party and the Australian Wool Corporation remain under a cloud of criticism which .should be dispersed as soon as it is possible for anyone to do so. I believe, that the responsibility rested squarely on the shoulders of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and on the shoulders of the Labor Government to do so when it had the opportunity to do so. 
The Australian Woo! Corporation today faces a very difficult situation. It is responsibly trying to maintain a satisfactory price for Australian wool. It has been charged with that responsibility. While these charges remain unresolved, the confidence that overseas wool buyers will have in the Australian Wool Corporation is undermined. If there is any truth in the charges it should be brought out, and the people responsible should be brought out, and the people responsible should be brought to book. But it remains a matter which has been thrown into the ring, without production of the proof which the honourable member claims that he has. This type of action should not be taken in this Parliament. 
I regret that the honourable member was not given earlier notice that I intended to raise the subject. I tried to give him notice in the last quarter of an hour.  His  name was on the list of members who wished to speak in the adjournment debate tonight. He was to follow me. So I would have expected him to be present. At the same time, I could not let this matter go, because I believe that the seriousness of the charge in such that it has to he ventilated. I appeal to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and to the ALP to face up to the responsibility that they surely have to clarify and resolve these matters so that the innocent people, as I believe they are, will be cleared of the charge which has been made against them. None of the antics of the second great comic actor in the Labor Party will lessen the seriousness of this charge, because it is a very serious charge. As 1 see the position, innocent people remain under a cloud until the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and the Labor Party, which protected him, live up to and prove the charges that they have made. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Minister has advised that a royal commission on petroleum has received representations in regard to the shortage of oil and petroleum products in country areas, and has said that the Government will be examining this aspect of the commission 's report as a matter of urgency. Does the Minister agree, though, that this is only one section of the very great problem and the grave difficulties facing Australia with regard to its total supplies of petroleum products? In view of the national shortage, does the Minister consider that the encouragement of oil exploration in Australia is also a matter of urgency so that, if possible, oil can be made available from Australian oil resources to all Australians? If so, will the Minister and the Government take urgent action to provide for conditions in Australia designed to attract those who have the expertise and the risk capital to explore for oil in Australia? 
I do not think anyone would argue with the points made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  regarding the promotion of goodwill with many of our near neighbours to the north. The honourable member enlarged very much on the subject of Portuguese Timor and its relations with Australia. I believe that the Opposition parties would be in accord with the general philosophy of promoting goodwill in those countries. However, I wish to talk more on matters related to the Government's policy on foreign affairs. 
There is no doubt that the Government has continued to dodge a debate on foreign affairs. It dodged one today. There was no reason why the matter of public importance proposed for discussion should not have gone on. The debate would have taken a little bit of time. But surely it would have been one of the most important debates which had taken place in this chamber in recent times. I believe that the fact that this Government has not been prepared to face up to a debate on foreign affairs is an indictment of it. 
Let me recall the history of this Government in foreign affairs. At one stage, Minister after Minister was making most derogatory statements about our most powerful ally, the United States of America. No one surely was able really to find out who was the spokesman on foreign affairs in the Government at that time. So much was this the position that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had to make some sort of statement that he was going to be the only spokesman on foreign affairs in this country. But no member of the Government took any notice of him. They just went on making these statements. 
The point about this aspect is that the inconsistency of the Government in every way can be demonstrated by the way in which its attitude has changed. The Prime Minister, in his recent visit to the United Nations, adopted a different attitude. He offered the hand of friendship rather than the attacks of the type which were being made in the early days of this Government on the United States. That earlier behaviour was accompanied by an attitude of admiration for the great communist powers of the world. We found members of the Government almost grovelling to those communist countries. This was part and parcel of their policy at that time if it is not still part of their policy today. Even though they have watered it down to a degree, that policy did show the people of Australia the real thinking of the Government to which they had changed and which the Labor Party had told the Australian people it was time that they had. I suggest that what was going on then did not reflect the opinion of the Australian people. That was not the policy on which this Government was elected to office in 1972. 
Since that time, we have seen the attitude adopted by the Australian Government to foreign affairs. The position has been that we and the Australian people have never been able to be quite sure what the Labor Government was going to do next in any field and principally in the field of foreign policy. Indeed, the only consistent thing about this Government in relation to foreign policy was its constant inconsistency in its various policies in this area. 
Reference has been made to the proposed expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations. I wish to say a few words on this topic. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  touched on this subject. I believe it is true that South Africa is showing signs that it is prepared to alter some of its attitudes to its own people. These are attitudes that all nations of our type would like to see changed. We are opposed completely to apartheid- to racism. The Minister says that the present position has prevailed for 25 years but why pick now, when there appears to be some softening in South Africa's attitude and some appreciation of its need to adopt the principles that the United Nations espouses, to move for its expulsion from that body? I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs: Is it Australia's intention to move for the expulsion of every nation which violates the principles of the United Nations? If it were the intention, there would be a long list. It is all very well to say that South Africa has violated the principles of the United Nations- that is agreed- but we should seek to bring South Africa and other nations to an acceptance of those principles. 
-People have been waiting 25 years for different policies in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and in the People's Republic of China, but we do not hear much about that. Solzhenitsyn spoke out in favour of depressed people in the Soviet Union and lost his citizenship as a result. That was not in accordance with the principles of the United Nations. South Africa is not the only country which for 25 years or more has been adopting policies not consistent with the principles of the United Nations. I am convinced that because of its membership of the United Nations South Africa will continue with what appears to be its present trend. Does the Government want to stop that trend and make it more difficult for the people of South Africa? Should it not encourage South Africa, especially as we now see some indications that South Africa is prepared to adopt policies that we all want adopted. The expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations at this point of time would have the opposite effect. 
I refer now to the desertion by this Government of the Baltic States and Taiwan. It is all very well to say that the position with the Baltic States is a fait accompli and that the present situation has existed for a long time. The Minister said that he did not agree with the way the Soviet Union brutally overtook the Baltic States. I think my notes of what the Minister said were correct and I accept his statement as a factual account of the situation. He should know because he has had experience in that area. If that was the situation, should we condone the brutal overtaking of those States by now recognising them as part of the Soviet Union? Similarly, should we by recognising the People's Republic of China desert the people of Taiwan? It appears to me that the Government has taken action to try to promote our goodwill with the world Communist powers. The Opposition is prepared, willing and anxious to trade with those countries and by so doing promote goodwill. We can do all that is required for the welfare of the people of the Communist countries, ourselves and other democratic countries by promoting trade which is an important aspect of our relationship with other countries. The lack of free trade between nations has been a reason for wars over the years, In fact, it is accepted as a major cause of wars. If we want to contribute to world peace we can do it best not by deserting the people who need our support but by promoting trade with all countries which are prepared and willing to trade with us. 
I deplore the present state of our defences in Australia. I appreciate that we are discussing the estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs but I believe it is essential that we should have defence forces capable of contributing to the protection of our trade routes if that should become necessary. I know that the Government has said that there is no likelihood of any attack on Australia in the foreseeable future, but no one can be completely confident. If we expect to be allied with other countries, as we must be to adequately protect the security of Australia and its people, we should be prepared, as other countries are prepared, to spend a reasonable proportion of our national income on retaining our defence forces in a reasonably strong position. Australia should not ask for support from other countries which are contributing much more than we are contributing to our defence. We should upgrade our defence forces. This is part of the price we should be prepared to pay for the security that we now enjoy. It is part of the price we should be prepared to pay if we are to ask other nations to join with us in our protection and in the protection of democratic life throughout the world. 
-The first thing about which I would like to talk this afternoon is the matter of telephone connections. It is of very great concern to people in my area that in some instances it costs $5,000 to have a telephone connected. People just cannot afford this amount. I am referring to people living in a cattle area at a time when the beef market has collapsed. A man who lives in an area that was to be connected to an exchange was asked by the Postmaster-General's Department whether he could be included in another area to suit the Department. The man agreed. It is estimated that under the new scheme it will cost him $5,000 to have a telephone connected. He would have had one installed free of charge under the old system of providing a telephone free of any additional charge within 15 radial miles of an exchange. He moved over to the next grid to suit the Department, but when the Government policy was altered the Department was not prepared to go on with the provision of an exchange in the area to which he had transferred. I led a deputation which waited on the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Brisbane. He was sympathetic but he could not do anything because the line of demarcation was complete and hard. There is no flexibility in the new scheme. I believe that the Government should consider allowing some degree of flexibility so that justice can be done. It was not done in the case to which I have referred. 
I also want to refer to a matter that the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  mentioned. Under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, which had a realistic attitude towards the provision of telephones in country area, 15 miles of line was provided free of charge. It should be borne in mind that this was done at the request of the Department to enable telephone communications to be upgraded to a satisfactory standard by the installation of automatic exchanges. There was no option left to subscribers, so the previous Government, after a good deal of effort largely on the part of many members of the Australian Country Party at that time, instituted the former scheme. The special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting at the table, actually accused me of having inside information in connection with it. He was quite wrong, but that is by the way. Constant dripping wears a stone, otherwise I would not be here appealing to the Department to show some consideration to the people who have to pay an enormous amount of money to get a telephone connected. 
Some people living in out of the way areas but only 15 miles from an automatic exchange have no real method of communication in time of emergency. Women are often left at home by themselves all day. One woman had to fight a bushfire to keep it away from the house in which she was living. She died of a heart attack within 6 months of that time.  Her  husband claims that it was due to the fact that she did not have a telephone to call for help and therefore either had to allow the house to be burnt down or had to fight the bushfire as best she could. A human problem is involved. A mother in an out of the way area might have sick children. What is the use of having an up to date ambulance service 50, 60, 70 or 80 miles away if there is no way of communicating with it in times of emergency? The Government has adopted an unrealistic approach in reducing from 15 miles to 5 miles the length of line provided free of charge. It is an unreasonable approach. I appeal to the Government to have another look at the matter. 
I draw attention to the long delays between an application and connection of a telephone. On 17 October  Senator Lawrie  asked a witness appearing before one of the Senate Estimates Committees a question with regard to deferred applications. A table had been provided showing applicants awaiting telephone services State by State.  Senator Lawrie  said: 
What intrigues me is why almost half of those deferred applications come from my State of Queensland. What is the explanation of that? 
The question was answered by  Mr Freeman,  who incidentally is the Senior Assistant DirectorGeneral (Works Program Co-ordination) of the Engineering Development Division. He said: 
The reason for the high situation in Queensland has been due to the unprecedented buoyancy in that State over the past 2 years and it is a situation we have been attempting to correct. 
He went on to say that the demand in Australia had fallen by 16,000 applications and that in Qeensland over the previous 2 months the unsatisfied demand had fallen by 4,000 applications to 24,000. It is very interesting that the situation was caused by buoyancy in Queensland, which is the only State in Australia that has a National Party Government which has been able to offset the detrimental effects that the Commonwealth Government has had on Australia as a whole. I know that the Queensland Government cannot go on doing that because it would be impossible to do so with the present high rate of inflation. 
I would like also to refer to the road mail services. They are continually being reduced on the ground that it is not economic for the PMG Department to provide them. Looked at in isolation, there are some instances where it costs a considerable amount of money to deliver a single article. I suggest that there should be a Treasury subvention to allow the PMG to provide services which are uneconomic in themselves but which are justified from a national point of view, particularly in relation to production and export earnings. If we are going to look at road mail services we cannot look at them in isolation. Surely they should be looked at from the broad national point of view. If we do that then I think the answer lies in the submission made by the Country Party to the royal commission that a Treasury subvention should be provided to the PostmasterGeneral's Department to enable it to provide this rural service nationally without upsetting the balance of its own accounts. I think that is a reasonable approach. I should like to ask a question and I hope that the Minister will be able to answer it. Does the Government intend to make the Post Office produce a balanced budget? If it does, what would be the cost of postage under those circumstances? Would it be 14c, as is suggested in the Melbourne 'Sun' yesterday, I think it was? The cost of the PostmasterGeneral's Department producing a balanced budget, or even making a profit, if you like, is of concern to the community. 
I wish to raise a point in relation to the speed of mail deliveries. This matter was raised by one of my constituents, who lives about 300 miles- 400 to 500 kilometres- from Brisbane. He challenged the Post Office on the delivery of mail and said that he was prepared to ride on horseback from Brisbane to his property and deliver the mail faster than the present service would get it there. The challenge was not taken up, but it is indicative of the falling off in deliveries to rural areas. That illustration highlights the point that the problem can be overcome by a Treasury subvention for that particular purpose. 
The changeover to the new system is going to cause people all over Australia, particularly those in country areas, very great concern. We know that the changeover is not envisaged for some time yet. The Postmaster-General's Department did obtain a balance from its telecommunications section which enabled the figures to be better than they might otherwise have been, but without the advantage of that section to balance the budget there is going to be a deficit. I think it was the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs who suggested that it would require a 15 per cent rise in charges to cope with increasing costs. At that rate, there will be an increase of 1 1/2c on letter postage to cope with those increasing costs. As the Melbourne 'Sun' and probably other newspapers too have suggested, the cost could rise to 14c to cover this deficit in the balance of payments. When the Minister replies I hope he will give the House some indication of whether it is the Government's intention to show a profit in the Post Office, or at least a balanced budget, or whether it is going to overcome the deficit in some other way and thereby avoid the exorbitant charges that would have to be made to achieve a balanced budget. 
I think it was the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who said that already people were having letters delivered by hand from Melbourne to Sydney instead of sending them through the Post Office. Can the Minister say if the Government is going to adopt a policy of increasing postal charges? If it is, then I regret it, because the Post Office is a service department. As I say, I believe that the Post Office should not have to carry an uneconomic service but if it is going to show a profit how is it going to do this without an exorbitant increase in charges? Is the Government prepared to allow that exorbitant increase to be brought about for the sake of achieving a balanced budget, by making the people who use the service pay for it? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-There is very deep concern in the minds of people with regard to the powers that are suggested in clause 6 of the Bill to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act. Delegates to the convention of the Federation of Australian Broadcasters, which includes some Labor Party controlled stations, unanimously affirmed their determination to support the principles that the public is best served by the continuance of the freedom of the commercial broadcasting industry to program their stations in accordance with the demonstrable interests of the communities which they serve. That is part of a resolution passed by the Federation of Australian Broadcasters. The resolution went on to say that while accepting the desirability of broad national program standards, which already exist, the Australian commercial broadcasters consider that legislative moves to provide dictatorship by the Government through the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in respect of what shall be presented to the public could assuredly result in repression of the opportunity of the public to hear free expression of program material of community interest. The deep concern of the broadcasters in respect of these matters as related to the proposals contained - 
-The Opposition supports the Bill. We must recognise that there are some problems relative to it. I would like to emphasise some points made by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  He referred to a person who was eligible because of his income to be allotted a housing commission house. He rented the house for a time and then decided that he could undertake the purchase of it, but in the meantime his income had increased beyond the maximum allowable under the means test and he was debarred from purchasing the house in which he had been living and to which he probably had made substantial contributions in the way of improvements. That point is worth emphasising, and I hope the Minister will take notice of it. 
There are many problems confronting people who want to own their homes. Largely because of the policies of this Government land prices have escalated and are now at very high levels. In conjunction with them the costs of home construction have risen. While there are some other factors relative to those increasing costs, I think the unbiased observer would agree that they have been brought about to a large degree by the domination of this Government by the left wing trade union movement, which has constantly pressed for unrealistic wage increases. Wage increases have gone well beyond the increase in productivity and have only resulted in rapidly increasing inflation, which in its turn is putting the price of a home beyond the reach of the family on the average income. Those are factors which I believe are very real in the context of this legislation. I acknowledge that excessive profit margins in other areas have contributed to some extent to the spiral in the past but they are not doing so today. They are not as evident today in general terms. I contend that the policies of this Government, which have supposedly been designed to assist the average wage earner particularly to own his home, are in fact precluding the average wage earner from owning his home. 
That is surely the desirable and legitimate objective of every Australian. At any rate it is in the opinion of honourable members on this side of the House. 
It is contended by people with expertise in the field that a person should earn $10 a week for every $1,000 he borrows to buy a home. So even a $20,000 loan would require an income of $200 a week. How many of the people this Bill is designed to serve would earn $200 a week or $10,000 per annum? Even if some did, where would they buy a house for $20,000? In all probability a house would cost them in the vicinity of $30,000. That means that they would require a $10,000 deposit to be able to get even a reasonable house with a $20,000 loan. 
The very high cost of interest, which has reached record heights under this Government, is a substantial contributing factor to the present deplorable situation. The Government does not seem to be able to do anything about it. I too commend the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  for the fact that he has been able to have included in this Bill preferential interest rates. Indeed, going on the figures I have cited with regard to what it would require to finance the purchase of a reasonable home, and surely the type of home we would all want to see the working people of this country housed in, it seems to me that the means test should be eased to allow more average wage earners to get the advantages of the Bill. When people have difficulty in obtaining funds, even at preferential interest rates, to take advantage of this Bill, the measure loses a lot of its value. That point needs emphasising. How many people will be able to take advantage of the legislation even though it offers preferential interest rates? 
The point is that no matter how much money is provided by the Government that, in itself, does not mean that people can move into their own homes for the reasons that I have stated. It is easy to understand under those circumstances why some of the funds that have already been provided have not been utilised. 
The sum of $3 10m is being allocated in this Bill. This has been mentioned by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  who has just resumed his seat. Queensland will receive an extra $8m. Even though $3 10m is a lot of money, we should remember that it will provide finance only for less than 16,000 homes of the type that I would like to see provided for the working people in Australia. Taking another line, that will achieve only about 10 per cent of the total housing production. We can see that it is a substantial amount of money but at the same time there will be a large gap left in providing housing for the community generally throughout Australia, despite the fact that these provisions are being made. 
We also run into the problem of the utilisation of these funds in the provision of housing. When we speak of trying to increase activity in the home building industry we should bear in mind that there is only a limited number of builders who in fact carry out work in this particular field. There are a variety of reasons for this, one of which is that this work is of a specialised character. Consequently the injection of even $300m may not do as much for the home building industry as we would like to see it achieve. We have got to get over those problems. I put it to the Minister that this is something to which he ought to give serious consideration. Nevertheless, I welcome the finance being made available which, indeed, is the first essential step to be taken to provide more housing for the Australian people. 
I have agreed to limit my remarks to some extent. But I would like to make some comment on the remarks that have been made by some of the previous speakers in this debate. I refer first of all to the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who said that interest rates rose under the previous government. In a very clear interjection in a quiet House I said: 'What did they rise to?' He completely ignored the question. The interest rates certainly did not rise to the levels to which they have risen since this Government came to office. 
The honourable member for Shortland spoke also about the apprentice scheme. This might be a good scheme and I do not condemn it at all. I welcome the introduction of such a scheme, I think it is a good idea. Let us have an apprentice scheme by all means. But I say to the Minister and to the Government: 'What is the use of having apprentices if your own policies are the very basis of putting the employers of these apprentices out of business and sending them bankrupt?' That is what is happening. Where are we going to find the avenues of employment for the apprentices that the Government claims to be providing if, in fact, there is no viability in the home building industry due to the impossibility of those who in the past have been employers of labour being able to provide employment. 
If one wishes to make comparisons, when we were in government and there was an apprentice scheme working, on completion of their training apprentices were able to find a job. It is going to be a tragedy for the young people who are trying to get employment not only in this field but in other fields if they cannot do so. The outlook for their prospects of employment is tragic. I feel very sorry indeed for those people- an increasing number of people- who generally want to work. I feel particularly sorry for the school leavers who want to start out in life and who are not going to get an opportunity. This is one of the things the Government should be thinking about. It comes into the area of this Bill insofar as the provision of homes for the people of Australia is concerned. 
I think that governments might be well advised to examine opportunities for providing homes for their employees. I intend to speak not only about what this Government could do but also about what the State governments could do. Quite recently I had an application from a branch of a teachers' union at Stanthorpe in Queensland asking for the provision of homes for the members of the union employed in Stanthorpe. I wrote on their behalf to try to encourage the provision of adequate accommodation for these people. I think the State governments should undertake this sort of work. In that way it would help decentralisation and it would encourage people to go to live in those areas. Not only does that apply to the State governments, but also it applies to the Australian Government in just the same way. I have received similar requests from employees of the PostmasterGeneral's Department at Quilpie. They have been looking for homes for a considerable time and I would hope that the Government will provide those homes for them. The latest information I have is that they are looking around to try to find some homes that might be available for sale. I think this is a rather short-sighted policy if, in fact, they are having any difficulty in finding suitable homes. I hope that both the State governments and the Australian Government will look at the prospect of being able to provide sufficient homes for their own employees for a start. That might ease the strain on those who want to provide other homes. If government employees take advantage of the finance that is being provided in these Bills, it means that someone else has to go without. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  said- of course it is an obvious fact- that people who are in receipt of a substantial income are in a better position to provide homes for their families. They might be in a better position but unless they are in receipt of a very substantial income they have difficulty also in finding homes for their families. They are in difficulty in a number of ways. They are in difficulty because of the shortage of materials for contractors. They have difficulty in getting contractors to build their homes. Here again, if finance were made available to more people to build homes on their own initiative and if these inhibitions on the building of homes were not there, there would be more homes for rent and there would be an easing of the whole situation. Under the present circumstances people have to have a very substantial income to be able to build even a reasonable home if they are to pay the interest rates, the costs of construction and the high prices for land which prevail at the present time. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley spoke about the massive increase to $3 18m. I have already covered that point to some extent by saying that it will provide only a comparatively small percentage of the homes that we want to provide. To compare the actual amount of money that is being provided in these Bills with what was provided previously, disregarding the rate of inflation and the extra costs involved, is to make a comparison which is not real and fair. I want to be completely fair to the honourable member for Diamond Valley, but even allowing for the rate of inflation, if we take the total conditions under which people have to build homes today and compare them with conditions when we were in government, we will find that it was easier for the average wage earner to build or to rent a home in those days than it is today. That is the acid test of whether we are making progress with regard to the provision of homes, apart from the provision of money. 
While we appreciate the fact that the Minister has sincerely endeavoured to do his best in this direction because of the general policies of this Government his efforts and the general progress towards home ownership for the Australian people has been undercut. The Opposition welcomes this Bill. We realise that it will not go nearly far enough unless the Government somersaults I notice that those words were used in the morning Press- towards the policies that the Opposition has advocated for a number of years. In that sense the Government is showing a little more realism in every field and I hope they will continue to do so. I wish the Government success in trying to adopt the policies of the Opposition. 
I thank the House. The table shows that the debt of the Australian Government has decreased in the period 1950 to 1974 from $456.18 per head to $306.93 per head, while the States' debt has increased from $290.78 per head to $860.70 per head. If what the honourable member for Henty said in her speech is correct- that is, that the Government is doing such a wonderful job for the States- I ask: What sort of a position are we going to get into? We cannot object to the principle established in 1970 of capital grants as a measure in an overall review of financial arrangements between the States and the Australian Government. But we can argue and we will argue with thrust and muscle that due to massive increases in the Commonwealth Government's tax revenues since 1970, the Commonwealth must now have a greater capacity to provide the States with capital assistance by way of grant than it did at that time. So, it is only giving back some of the money which has been brought into the Commonwealth's hands as a result of inflation. The position is becoming worse, as the table which I have incorporated indicates, and corrective measures of greater assistance are certainly required urgently. A mutual beneficial relationship between the States and the Commonwealth can be established only if the central Government is aware of the problems of the States and takes effective action to counter those problems. 
The grants have not been a one way traffic. The all time high interest rates charged to the States on borrowings and conversions of existing borrowings have been offsets against the grants and indicate that much more must be done. The position of Queensland deserves special consideration and examination. Queensland gets a relatively low share, this being traced back to the post- World War II period and resulting from the scarcity of resources under the last Federal Labor Government and an alternative source of finance from the post-war Reconstruction and Development Trust Fund. But the position has to be clarified. 
No longer is it an eminently logical argument to advance the proposition that distribution should be made on a formula based on previous years' loan spending. Queensland is entitled to a larger share of the capital grants in line with its population and its requirements. It could be argued that Queensland obtains 18 per cent of the total allocation for semi-governmental authorities compared with its population proportion of 1 5.2 per cent, but this argument can be rebutted and set aside by pointing out that these semi-governmental loans are amortised over much shorter periods than the 53 years over which Commonwealth-State loans are amortised. Additionally, the semi-governmental authorities have the problem of raising these moneys themselves whereas the State loan allocations are raised by the Commonwealth which also undertakes to make up any deficiency in the amount borrowed. Further semi-governmental borrowings involve higher interest rates than Commonwealth loans raised on behalf of the States, and their repayment is not assisted with a sinking fund contribution from the Commonwealth as is the case with Commonwealth loans on behalf of the States. 
Australian Federal-State financial relations have undergone a process of change since Federation in 1901. The Federal Constitution laid down the framework for a division of responsibilities and financial resources between the Federal and State governments. But that framework was savagely fractured by the drastic and impervious announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the June 1973 Premiers' Conference when he said: 
From now on, we will expect to be involved in the planning of the function in which we are financially involved. We believe that it would be irresponsible for the national Government to content itself with simply providing funds without being involved in the process by which priorities are met and by which expenditures are planned and by which standards are met. 
The Government has set out deliberately to subvert section 96 by twisting it to meet the demands of socialistic philosophies. Section 96 was originally intended as a short term measure to help the States. Now it is being used in some ways to throttle and strangle them. 
The Constitution laid down quite definitely and without equivocation the Commonwealth responsibilities such as defence, foreign affairs, trade, customs and excise, etc, and State responsibilities which are those not specifically given to the Federal Government in 1901. Education, health and transport are all State responsibilities. Yet we find this catastrophe of a Government has appointed Ministers in these areas. Duplication has resulted. I submit they should all be called Special Ministers for Section 96. It can be argued that there has been a blatant usurping of the powers of the States. Scant regard has been given to the plaintiff calls for restraint in Government spending from such true statesmen as the Honourable Joh Bjelke-Petersen, soon to be reelected as Premier of Queensland, who has led the fight of opposition to the steamrolling monster of centralism. Never before have we witnessed the acceleration of the establishment of authorities in the Federal sphere duplicating existing instrumentalities in the States. Jobs for the boys have been created and will be created in the Cities Commission, the Housing Corporation and the Education Commission, all duplicating the missions of well established, well regimented and highly functional State departments. There are many people aware of the intentions and advocating a change in section 96 to read 'Commonwealth can make grants to States on mutually acceptable terms'. This surely is reasonable and would retain the spirit and heart. of federalism thus negating the attempts of the Prime Minister to use that section as a club to destroy the States. We of the Opposition call on the Prime Minister to stop this trumpeting and bugle blowing and get on with the job of controlling inflation. 
When will the Prime Minister co-operate with the States? When will he accept the BjelkePetersen plan for controlling inflation, granting taxation concessions and lowering of sales tax? Why did the Prime Minister refuse to co-operate with the States? He refused much to the disgust of all thinking Australians. He would not cooperate by curtailing his mammoth empire building through cutting expenditure. It is no wonder the Premier of Queensland described the Premiers' Conference on 13 August 1974 as a complete waste of time because the Commonwealth did not have a plan and the Prime Minister, who admits he has neither interest nor expertise in economic matters said there was not a crisis in the economy. That was his attitude to it. 
-Then, as my colleague from Paterson has interjected, his Government has had to introduce 3 Budgets in 3 months. The Prime Minister did not admit at the time of that Premiers Conference that there was any crisis. All that the Prime Minister offered to the Conference was flowery words- another example of the Prime Minister's characteristic much ado but little done. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister dealt with larger authorities' programs but the position of local authorities total debt was summarily dismissed. The Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, as it then was, in its publication 1970-71, reference No. 5.36 on pages 4 and 5, shows the debt of local government at that date as $ 1,730.5m. The problem that confronts local authorities throughout the Commonwealth is the enormous debt that they have had to incur because of the lack of interest and understanding by the Commonwealth Government of the needs of the States. This is emphasised by reference to the attitude that the Commonwealth Government has taken in relation to the arterial roads plan. It has accepted the responsibility with respect to arterial roads and has taken the funds away from the States and local government to use them for this national arterial roads undertaking. I agree completely with the need for a national arterial roads program if the funds for that program were provided by the Commonwealth Government, not at the expense of the States or of local government. That is one of the greatest condemnations we have had in recent times of this Government's financial relationships with the State governments and local authorities. Supporters of the Labor Party talk about being interested in people. Let me tell them that as a result of that measure alone hundreds and hundreds of people throughout Australia have been put out of work. Some of the smaller towns in which local authorities are the major employers of labour are suffering very severely as a result of this measure and, of course, from the damage that has been caused by the other policies of the Government. 
The Commonwealth has shown its true colours in another instance. The matter I am about to mention was also mentioned by the honourable member for Henty in her speech tonight. She referred in glowing terms to the action of the Commonwealth Government in providing $9.5m to Queensland to be used for the restoration of flood damage. In point of fact this was money that the State was allowed to borrow. 
It was Federal money but the State had to borrow it from the Federal Government. It was not a grant. The Government seems impervious to personal hardship and distress despite what it says. It appears to be unmoved by the calls for assistance for personal hardship and distress, the restoration of private dwellings, assistance to primary producers and to private industry and assistance to State Government departments and semigovernmental authorities. 
I want to limit my time to meet the wishes of the Government. I conclude my remarks by saying that I support and the Opposition supports the essence of the Bill. In States which are pulsating with energy to get on with the building of more schools and police buildings, we submit that the amount of capital assistance is too little. In a day and age when we are crying out for fit Australians one can only marvel at the stringent conditions applicable to the provision of shortterm re-establishment finance for sporting bodies suffering flood damage. I hope that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, who is sitting at the table, will take some note of that. We realise the problem of containing the fires of centralism fanned by the Government. We are not daunted by the problem of fighting a protracted campaign. The thoughts and aspirations of the 
Australian people are behind us and they proved by their overwhelming defeat of the referenda proposals that they believe in State rights. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware of the drastic effect on arterial road development of the substantial reduction in finance available for urban and rural arterial roads? Is he also aware that large numbers of employees of local authorities have been dismissed or face dismissal because local authorities have received much less work as constructing authorities for main roads departments? If he is aware of this position and its tragic effect on our towns, will the Minister and the Government take steps to rectify it by allocating more finance for rural and urban arterial roads and so reduce unemployment in this area? 
-The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  went to some length to try to justify the powers that it is proposed to give the Minister under this Bill. He tried to write them off as being perhaps of not very great importance and necessary to the implementation of the provisions of the Bill. I submit that all the advantages of the Bill can be obtained for the Australian film industry without the Minister's having the dictatorial powers that it is proposed to give him under the Bill. The honourable member for Kingston said that powers of this kind have existed in a number of areas in the past. Perhaps they have. Perhaps we should have been more careful in this direction but of course we did not anticipate that a government of the character of the present Government would take over from the previous LiberalCountry Party Government Maybe we can all learn a lesson from what has happened in the past. 
The Opposition naturally wants to see progress and development in the film and television industry in Australia. We are desirous of that. We want the advantages that can be obtained from this Bill, but we want to see that no dictatorial powers are used in the administration of it. That is the only thing that really concerns us. The major difference between the approach of the Opposition to the film industry and the approach of the Government is that the Opposition wants to see the Australian Film Commission as an independent body as free from Government control as possible. If that can be achieved, we are quite happy to have the Australian Film Commission. We welcome it. A broad answerability to Parliament for the public funds entrusted to the Commission can be arranged. Provision for it is contained in the Bill. The Auditor-General is given full powers of inspecting the accounting records and is required to audit them. The Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  stated this in his second reading speech. I have agreed to limit my speaking time so I will not quote from his speech now. 
It is important that the Australian film industry should develop its own character. It does not want to be developed under the restricting direction of a Minister of any government. We need not slavishly follow the standards and types of films that have been developed in other countries, some of which border on the unacceptable. When I say that, I do not want to be told that we are conservative and that we have no intention of trying to produce films in this country depicting real life and the adult conception of what goes on in this country. We do not want to hide the facts of real life; we are prepared to accept them, but we do not want to have the type of film that we sometimes see which is based entirely on violence, sex or crime. We would be better off without them. The Minister in charge of the Commission would want to do better with films than the Government has done with art, with the paint on 'Blue Poles' flaking off every day. That gives an indication of what can happen when the Government assumes control over something without regard for the people who should be given a say. 
I suggest that full consideration be given to the employment of top directors. If one wanted to spend money, that would be a good way of spending it. It would be better than spending money on 'Blue Poles'. The employment of top directors would improve the standard of films in this country and expenditure in this area could be very rewarding for the Australian film industry. While it is necessary to give a real life, adult approach to an Australian film industry, it is not necessary to depict violence, crime or sex to provide a film with box office attraction. A good example of this would be the 'Sound of Music' and the television serial 'Bell bird '. 
My friend the honourable member for Gwydir has nominated  'Dr Zhivago'.  Plenty more films could be nominated. My friend the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  is trying to nominate another. We could all do that. But it shows that we do not have to have films involving violence, crime or sex. I emphasise that I would like to see a higher standard of film, a film which can do without the necessity to introduce extremes in violence, sex and crime. I think that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  as a Minister pointed out that extremes in crime and violence apart from sex in films should be cut out or discouraged. I believe that the Australian Film Commission would be well qualified to do that. 
On a personal basis I would like to mention that my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who would have been anxious to speak on this Bill, is not here today through no fault of his own. He is presently discussing with a prominent personality in the film industry the possibilities of making outdoor films. I have been invited, and I am very proud of it, to take part in these discussions. It is intended to take advantage of the eminently suitable weather for making outdoor films at selected times of the year in the famous and internationally known sunshine State of Queensland. Apart from the glorious beaches and the particularly attractive aspects of those beaches and the people enjoying the sun and the surf, there is a wonderful opportunity to portray on film more of the many unique attractions of inland Queensland and inland Australia since films about places off the beaten track have such an appeal for metropolitan Australians, if not all Australians, and for people overseas. What we do not want to see happen, if a person making a film is not sympathetic to the Government 's policies, is the Minister putting his big foot down and saying: 'No, you cannot do just what you want with this'. We want only to protect the desires ' and the aims of people genuinely anxious to promote the film industry to the best advantage in Australia. I would like to take a few minutes to comment on some passages of the Minister's second reading speech. He said:  ... the passage of this Bill through the Senate has seen the real effectiveness of the proposed Commission reduced as an instrument for the regeneration of the Australian film industry. 
I challenge those remarks very strongly. It is not necessarily so at all. The aim of the Opposition is to protect the film industry and the broad functions of the Commission that are mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech would, I am sure, be accepted by the Opposition generally. The Minister continued: 
It should be noted unequivocally that the previous Australian Government had been having films made, with the approval of the Minister of the day, by a branch of a Department of State. 
Maybe that was so. Maybe the faults have not shown up as clearly as they could have done. That is the point we make. As we mentioned before in connection with the Broadcasting and Television Bill, what we say is that if those powers have not been necessary in the past, why does the Government want them now? Why are the powers needed? If it was operating effectively in the past without having required these powers the film industry should not be jeopardised by their possible use in the future. 
The Opposition agrees with much of the Bill and the few other comments I intended to make I will forgo because it is important that the Opposition honours its commitment and limits the debating time. I have limited my remarks to 10 minutes. In his second reading speech the Minister also said: 
The enactment of this Bill to establish the Australian Film Commission is now a vital and historic step in the process of further developing a viable Australian film and television program production industry. 
That is in accord with what the Opposition wants, but we want to see it done without ministerial dictation. We are not suggesting that there will be ministerial dictation but we do not want to permit the possibility of such action. The Minister and the Government may not intend such dictation but we do not want those powers in this legislation. If such powers have been included where they should not have been included by a previous Government, perhaps it was in error but, as a Minister said, it is a big man who can admit his mistakes. It is not often that I quote from a Government member, but this is one occasion when I can. The Country Party, with its colleagues in the Liberal Party, wants to see a thriving film industry in Australia free from political interference and domination. In conclusion I repeat what I said in this House not long ago when I updated a famous quotation of Thomas Jefferson- it may need some qualification- 'Our liberty depends on the freedom of the media and that cannot be limited without being lost. ' 
-These 3 Bills, the Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Bill, the Queensland Grant (Clare Weir) Bill and the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill, the Opposition regard as important and urgent. The Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Bill provides some $4.4m to the Queensland Government for the cost of building some of the works associated with phase 1 of stage 1 of the Bundaberg Irrigation program. The Queensland Grant (Clare Weir) Bill provides $3m to the Queensland Government towards the cost of constructing a weir on the Burdekin River near Clare. The Queensland 
Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill provides $125,000 to assist in the contraction of needed flood mitigation works on the Proserpine River. These 3 Bills have the support of the Opposition. In expressing that support, I think there are several matters that should be raised by me in this debate in relation to the nature of Queensland's funding program for water resource works in Queensland. 
Last year Cabinet approved a document submitted by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  on water resources management. The basic philosophy expressed in that document was stated to be: 
The conservation, development and management of water resources must take place in the broader framework not only of development and management of resources generally, but . also of the overall economic, environmental and social planning. 
The philosophy of that approach has the support of the Opposition. We have long recognised the fact that dams should not be built solely to provide water, however important that might be. They should be buUt to provide supplies of water resources bearing in mind the need of the communitywhether it be urban or rural- for the stored water resources, and taking appreciation of the fact that wastage or depletion of resources, whether they be soU, water, vegetation or timber, be kept to the absolute minimum. 
With respect to the Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Bill, the Opposition appreciates that this further grant to the Queensland Government foUows a grant by the former Liberal-Country Party Government of $12.8m for the construction of the Monduran Dam, the Gin Gin channel and the construction of a pumping station to link the Kolan and Burnett Rivers. The construction work on this project during the past year has been held up by unseasonal conditions. Heavy rain and, at times, flooding have resulted in the works program falling behind. The $4.4m provided under this Bill is basically to meet the escalating costs of the project which mainly stem from inflation and rising wage rates. It has been some time since the request was made by the Queensland Government for the $4.4m supplementary grant. I should like to put on record that the Opposition believes that this sum may not be enough to meet the works program envisaged in this Bill because of the factors I have enumerated. Whether the estimates given are sound or not, nothing in recent times indicates that the inflationary trend is not still on the upward spiral and in that case, of course, the $4.4m wUl not be enough. 
It is better to get something some of the time, I suppose, but my friend the honourable member for Darling Downs is pretty right. If this is the case, I think the Government should immediately consult the Queensland Government to assess what further supplementary funds are necessary. We cannot have a project of this kind held up simply because of the economic policies of this Government and inflationary trends cutting into the amount of money allocated for it originally. 
The importance of this project to the Bundaberg district cannot be overstated. The Bundaberg area is one of the most important agricultural regions of Australia. It is a centre of diversified farming and pastoral activity. The provision of irrigation will improve this diversity, lift farm efficiency and create a greater amount of stability for producers. Those are objectives that we should all be prepared to support, and the Opposition supports them. In past decades rural production in the Bundaberg area has been at times severely affected by protracted droughts and on occasions extensive flooding. The completion of the works provided for in this Bill will reduce the likelihood of such natural disasters causing the amount of damage that they have caused in the past and will reduce their effect. 
For example, the 1964 drought not only severely retarded rural production in the Bundaberg area but also caused delays in the return of farm production to normal levels. Over the past 5 years particularly the diversity of production in the Bundaberg region has become more pronounced, thereby making this proposed work even more important. Soya bean cropping is now widespread. The acreage of sugar planted has increased and the acreage of summer grain crops has increased. The acreage involved in beef production has also increased. With the exception of beef production, these primary industries are among the most viable at present in Australia. 
The Opposition welcomes this diversity, believing that it will give a commensurate improvement in farm income and stability for the region. However, I suggest to the Government, in addition to the suggestion already made, that more funds should be provided, that the Government should give urgent consideration to where these works could be used in providing employment opportunities under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. That is a good place to use some of these funds. 
-That is so. Escalation of employment opportunities, for example, by the subcontracting of works associated with the Bundaberg irrigation program, with finance being drawn from the RED grants would allow the entire program to return to its normal schedule and so overcome the delays caused by bad weather conditions last year and this year. It would provide needed job opportunities for people displaced from work due to the downturnthis is an important factor in relation to these Bills- particularly in the beef industry and also in the manufacturing industries of the area caused by the Government's regressive, harsh, irresponsible economic policies. I have not exhausted the adjectives I would like to use in relation to the Government's economic policies. I know for a fact that early this month, on 7 November, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  visited the area in which the Bundaberg irrigation works are being undertaken. I also understand that the point was made that the escalation of the program of construction of these works would provide employment opportunities- of course it would. I believe the suggestion is a good idea and I recommend it to the Government. 
The water that will be stored as a result of this program and later used in production will undoubtedly contribute to a wider and fuller prosperity for the district in terms of local production. I interpose here that this scheme was introduced by the former Liberal-Country Party Government. I personally welcome the proposal and I urge the Government to give sound and serious consideration to my suggestion that the work be expanded. In a project of this kind the completion of the work at the earliest possible time is an important factor. It is an important factor at any time. It is doubly important when we are faced with escalating costs and with spiralling inflation which in my view will continue at a greater rate- although I am sorry to have to say that- than at the present time. The completion of this project will, as the Minister has said, almost completely protect the sugar industry in the Bundaberg region against the ravages of water stress. That is very important in that area, an area which has suffered very greatly as I am sure the Minister would agree, as a result of water stress over the years. 
Such an achievement is commendable. It is worth while remembering at this time- and I again make this point- that it was a LiberalCountry Party Government that introduced the project. Do not let us forget that. Up to the time of its introduction- this is another point I want to emphasise- the Labor Party had not advocated a program for such a project in the Bundaberg area. So the credit for introducing and instigating - 
-Look, your policies are not often accepted by the Government anyhow. So it would not matter much what you said to the Government as far as I can see. At the time of its introduction the Bundaberg area was represented politically at the State and Federal level by Labor members of Parliament but we did not hear much from them as to what should be done in this area. It was left to the LiberalCountry Party Government to provide the scheme that is now being proceeded with. Those members could not appreciate the far-sighted needs for this project. Despite the comments of the Minister, the Liberal and Country Parties saw, recognised and acted upon them. 
I turn now to the Queensland Grant (Clare Weir) Bill. The Opposition supports the construction of the Clare Weir. I am sure that the Minister will be pleased to know that. The development of this weir on the Burdekin River near Townsville will improve the rural, commercial and urban utilisation of water flow in the Burdekin River basin. That of course, is a good thing. We appreciate this action. This development will improve farming conditions and provide substantial water resources which are necessary for local commercial undertakings and growing urban needs. The provision of $3m is well below the $3. 8m sought by the Queensland Government not only for the Clare Weir but also for the Urannah Dam. It is very regrettable that the Government has not sought to act on the Urannah Dam proposal because the Opposition believes that the integrated development of the Clare Weir plus the construction of the Urannah Dam would improve the water resource storage position of the area concerned. If the Minister is so influential in the Government why did he not have that incorporated in the legislation before us? Let him explain if he can why the Government has turned down this aspect of the total concept. 
-Australia increasingly in the future must look forward to developing wherever possible its opportunities to become more of a major food supplier to the world. The Minister asked why we did not do it for 23 years. In answer to him I say that we were progressing favourably. We were agreeable together with the Queensland and New South Wales governments in regard to the construction of the Pike Creek Dam, which is now known as the Glenlyon Dam. What did this Government do in regard to this project? It walked out on it. It repudiated the undertaking given by the Liberal-Country Party Government to construct this dam on a 3-way basis. The worth of the dam is demonstrated by the fact that the Queensland and New South Wales Governments short as they are of funds which have been denied them by this Government, are prepared to go on and construct the dam out of their own resources. It is a shame that this type of approach to water conservation has been taken by this Government. The Minister at the table was not every concerned about this project because his electorate does not happen to be near it. He lives in another part of Queensland and he does not worry very much about anywhere else. 
Australia increasingly must look forward to its development with respect to becoming a bigger food supplier in the world. The construction of the Clare Weir and the Urannah Dam would have allowed Australia to help to meet its obligations for this grave international need. Despite the low market for beef this prospect is standing out as one of the great problems confronting the world today. In this country we can play a very substantial part providing it has the assistance of the Government that is in office and providing that we have a reasonably sound economy. But that is something that this Government cannot provide. It is regrettable that the Government has not sought to go on with the proposal to give financial assistance for the development of the Urannah Dam. The grant for the Clare Weir is dependent on the Queensland Government carrying out further development works worth $1.6m. 
It is interesting to note that the Queensland Government has been criticised for not cooperating with the Federal Government. It will co-operate as long as it has a reasonable chance to co-operate and providing the conditions under which the funds are advanced are consistent with the ideas of the Queensland Government and do not cut across State rights. The fact that the Queensland Government has to provide $1.6m illustrates this particular point. This shows up the fallacy of the argument of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that he cannot get co-operation from the Queensland Government when it comes to projects which are necessary to improve the economy of Queensland. The Queensland 
Government is anxious to get money on any reasonable terms to develop the State. 
I would now like to turn to the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill. Again the Opposition fully supports the project. The Minister for Northern Development sitting at the table will be fully aware of the grave problems which the Proserpine River Valley has encountered through repeated floods. An amount of $120,000 is to be made available by the Commonwealth for this project. Also $120,000 will be made available by the Queensland Government and $60,000 by the Proserpine River Improvement Trust. So here again the Queensland Government is playing its part and the people of the Proserpine River Improvement Trust are also playing their part. I pay a tribute to them for what they are doing. 
This program has the full support of the Queensland Government. However, it should be pointed out that the Federal Government has agreed only to the first year of the program. Why has it done that? Why not go on and see it finished? Is the Commonwealth Government going to let the load fall just on the Queensland Government? Will it let whatever load is left after that time fall on the Queensland Government or will it come to the party later on? The Queensland Government has no guarantee that the Commonwealth Government will come in later. The Queensland Government has to go into the project and do its best. It will see the project through. The State Government has to put up the balance of the finance for the remaining years of the program. That is a shocking state of affairs. 
The Minister will claim that he has some appreciation of the need for this sort of work but he is prepared to walk out at the end of 1 year and let the Queensland Government with its limited funds carry the burden of the rest of the program. This brings into question the sincerity of the Government in relation to the conservation of Queensland river water resources. It is a program on the Proserpine River designed to reduce flooding. 
I know enough about it to know that this Government is giving a lot less money than it ought to be giving, and that is something that the Minister could turn his attention to rather than anything else. If he wants to help the people in that area he should get more money from the Federal Government. That is what he wants to do. Criticising me will not help the people in that area. He should get the Prime Minister to help these people. That is what he should do. If he concentrates on that he will be doing a good job for them. But he is not getting very far in his efforts. 
The program on the Proserpine River is designed to reduce flooding and protect soil, water resources, farm resources and urban resources. The Federal Government is prepared to meet only some of the commitment in the first year. If I do not know anything about this matter the Minister should tell me what is wrong with that contention. He should tell me all about it. When he replies he should tell me how much more he will do for the people in this area. If the Government has any sincerity at all in this program it should look at widening and continuing its involvement until the completion of the program. This Government, which holds the purse strings of the nation, is making the Queensland Government which is short of funds cany the share of the burden that it should not have to carry. It is doing a wonderful job in accepting this load in the area of north Queensland and in accepting the responsibility to provide water which can be used for food production that is so desperately needed throughout the world and will become more desperately needed as time goes on. 
I find it is almost hypocritical on the Minister's part to say that this Bill was in keeping with the Australian Government's positive and constructive approach towards flood damage restoration and flood mitigation. The Government is basically keeping its commitment down in the funding of the Proserpine flood mitigation project program to what I would regard almost as a low as possible level. I think it is a disgusting exhibition of the lack of interest and lack of government appreciation of the problem that faces the people in that area. I believe that the Government should review its commitment to this program. I ask the Minister at the table to do that. Although I might wish him well, I do not think he has any hope of success in persuading the Government to do it. 
I believe that the Government should review its commitment so as to ensure that the completion of this project will not be jeopardised because of the penny-pinching attitude of the Commonwealth towards providing finance for a worth while and urgently needed undertaking. The program is not only in the interests of the community of the Proserpine River valley but it is also in the interests of the total community. It covers a wider field than just the Proserpine River valley. The Government needs to recognise that any efforts which will reduce the severity of natural disasters affect all Australians to some degree, and a reduction of flood frequencies along the Proserpine River through this program deserves a commitment in the national interest. It is to the very great credit of the Queensland Government that it is prepared to find the balance of the funds above the miserable amount that the Australian Government is going to give, which cut out at the end of one year. Honourable members on the Government side who are interjecting should have a look at the Bill. I believe the honourable member for Kingston would be prepared to support me in this if he had a look at the Bill. Anyone with a reasonable amount of common sense would certainly do that. 
In recent weeks the Labor Government has decided to intrude in the Queensland election campaign, using the claim that the Queensland Government is jeopardising the opportunities of Queenslanders to receive funds from the Commonwealth Government. I say that they are accepting - 
-You would not know. You just interject for the sake of interjecting. The point is that the rejection of whatever Commonwealth funds have been rejected by the Queensland Government has been because the Commonwealth has sought only to extend those funds where they have strings attached to them. That is the basic reason for the rejection. You will not get the Queensland Government to accept funds from an Australian Government which is attaching strings to those funds to enable it to have its own centralist policies adopted in Queensland. (Government members interjecting). 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. I am very pleased to do that because it is much nicer looking at you than at some of the people who are making the interjections that are flying around. It is a real relief. I repeat that the reason for the rejection by the Queensland Government of whatever Commonwealth Government funds have been rejected has been because those funds have had strings attached to them and the acceptance of the funds would jeopardise the sovereignty of the State. Do not forget that. That is important, and I do not say it lightly. The 3 Bills that we are now debating show the reverse of the argument that the Government has been using in respect of the Queensland Government. The 
Queensland Government is accepting funds from the Commonwealth for the construction of these 3 projects. That indicates its willingness to go along with any reasonable and sensible program. It is important to remember that in regard to one program, the Proserpine flood mitigation program, the Federal Gvernment is making what I regard as the least possible commitment, and I emphasise that point again to the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  He should know that area as well as anybody and he ought to be ashamed of the miserable part that the Australian Government is playing in that program. 
With regard to the other 2 projects, the Bundaberg irrigation program and the Clare Weir, the Commonwealth is providing what I would think could be inadequate finance in view of the inflation which has been promoted in large part by it. The Commonwealth Government has also declined to fund wider programs of assistance involving these 2 areas, programs which have been suggested by the Queensland Government after careful study. No matter what the Minister says, they were suggested by the Queensland Government The programs are supported by the Queensland Government and it will support any reasonable project on the same basis. 
Criticism has been levelled at the attitude of the Queensland Government towards the operation of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation as a consultant to the Federal Government on future water conservation and flood mitigation programs. The Government has argued that the Corporation should not have to listen to the arguments of the Queensland Government on priorities for projects. Why? Why should not the Queensland Government, elected by the people of Queensland, be heard? Why should the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, whatever its capacity, usurp the duties of the Queensland State Government, or any other State government? And this is what Govenment supporters want, judging from their interjections. Is that what they want? They want a statutory authority to take over the State Government. Of course they do. That is their objective. I totally reject this argument by the Government. The argument fails to recognise that the Queensland Government and its authorities have a deep and intense knowledge stemming from many years of research and study into water conservation and flood mitigation needs, and I believe that it consequently should be involved in full consultation with the Commonwealth. The Queensland Government is quite prepared to consult with the Commonwealth Government. Is that not the democratic method of operation? Do you want the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to override the Queensland Government just because the Corporation has some expertise in the field? Is that what honourable members on the Government side feel about democratic government? 
This Government is quite obviously trying to prevent the Queensland Government from drawing up a list of priorities which are more in tune with the needs of Queensland and which are based on the Queensland Government's own experience. It is rejecting the right of the Queensland Government to question in government to government talks the priorities and evaluations decided upon by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. Of course we should allow the Queensland Government to question those priorities. Of course we should. This is a federation, and the voice of the Queensland Government, and of any other State government for that matter, should be heard in matters that effect their State. Unless we get away from the centralist ideals that this Government seems to have, then it is going to be to the very great disadvantage of the States of Australia. 
The attitude of the Queensland Government in this matter is a responsible one and a commendable one. If the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is to operate effectively in the area of water conservation and flood mitigation within the States it must be directed by the Minister to consult fully with the State Government and its agencies concerned. Now, is there any objection to that? Do Government members have any objection to the Corporation consulting with the State authorities? They certainly should not have any objection, but they are quiet now. Possibly they realise at long last the logic of the argument I have put up. Not to allow the State Government and its agencies to consult with the Corporation is a retrograde step and is not in the interests of democracy, it is not in the interests of the people of Queensland. I should like to ask the Minister for Northern Development what appreciation he had of the great quality of Fred Haig, the chief man in that field. He was a very good man, and there are not many better authorities in this country on this subject than Fred Haig was. We still have in the State of Queensland and in other States people who are quite capable of evaluating water conservation proposals. Not to allow the State Government to consult with the Commonwealth is to heighten the risk of coming to an ill advised and ill informed decision which could lead to the squandering of public funds and the misuse of our natural resources. 
One point I want to emphasise again is that I completely refute the argument that the Queensland Government is not prepared to cooperate with the Federal Government in any way. I claim that the Federal Government walked out on the Queensland and New South Wales State Governments in regard to the Glenlyon Dam and left the project to them. To the credit of those States, they are going ahead with it, and only recently I heard that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which the Minister for the Capital Territory might know something about, is quite interested in getting a property which bestrides that river that is going to be served by the Glenlyon Dam. There are some 2200 acres of potential irrigation land on the Queensland side. One Federal Government was quite prepared to use the water but was not prepared to provide the funds to build a dam to get the water supplied to that area. 
The Opposition has made its position clear in connection with these Bills. It supports the Bills. I have made the points that I feel should be made in refutation of what has been claimed about the Queensland Government. The Queensland Government is very anxious to proceed with worthwhile projects. Indeed, it has proved that in many ways. The inland town of St George in Queensland has progressed favourably through irrigation. Dams have been built at Coolmunda and other inland areas of Queensland in which possibly a cost benefit analysis might not show quite as high a result as sometimes we look for. But, as I quoted earlier, the basic philosophy expressed by this Government is that the conservation, development and management of water resources must take place in the broader framework not only of the development and management of resources generally but also of the overall economic environment and social platform. That is what has happened as a result of the great effort made by the Queensland Government in the matter of water conservation. 
I again urge the Minister for Northern Development and the Australian Government to be prepared to be a bit more generous about the providing of water for this the driest continent in the world. The provision of water is the very foundation of decentralisation. If the Government has any ideas about decentralisation it must be prepared to support the construction of major water conservation projects in this country. It is not prepared to do so or, if it is, it is prepared to do so only in a very niggardly fashion. I conclude by saying that it is all very well for some of those honourable members who interjected during my speech tonight to be critical about this matter because so much of the water resources in the southern or south-eastern part of the Commonwealth has been harnessed to the very great advantage of that area, but we want to see the other States deriving the benefit that can be derived within that framework in their own areas which, of course, would be to the benefit of all the Australian people. 
I do not intend to delay the Committee but I make the point that it is desirable that the Australian Wool Industry Conference or the growers, through the avenues they choose, should have the right to appoint their own members to the board. The fact that the Government wants a panel of names from which to select a member really is, despite what the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  says, trying to get the type of person that the Minister for Agriculture wants rather than the type of person the wool growers want. 
-The honourable member would not know anything about wool. There can be no reason for the proposed change other than to give the Minister greater authority over the selection of people to represent wool growers. I emphasise this aspect. I agree with the amendment and am opposed to the idea of a panel of names from which the Minister can select whomever he likes to represent the wool growers, despite the fact that that person will be from the panel of names submitted. The other point to which the Minister should reply relates to the position if the Minister does not select a person from the panel of names submitted to him. Will the organisation have to submit another panel until it nominates someone the Minister is happy to have? 
-Is the Minister for the Environment and Conservation aware that in many parts of Australia the kangaroo population is estimated to be at record levels? Is he aware that it is dangerous to drive, especially at night, on many country roads because of the danger of hitting kangaroos? Will he consult with the Minister for Customs and Excise and with the highly competent and dedicated State fauna authorities with the object of having the ban on the export of kangaroo products lifted, and so institute the humane harvesting of surplus kangaroo populations and avoid the threatened fearful wholesale destruction of kangaroos by poisoning? 
-The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has put up a few arguments as to why the Bill should be carried. He paid a very fine tribute to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I have met a few members of the Australian Workers Union in my area- friends of mine- who spoke of the Minister in very different terms. Perhaps it is a matter of opinion what one thinks of the Minister. Their opinions were very different from those expressed by the honourable member for Burke. I do not intend to take up the time of the House telling honourable members what they said because that is not why I have risen. 
The honourable member for Burke said that it is virtually impossible under present conditions for unions to amalgamate. If the members of the unions were keen enough about amalgamation I believe that they would be able to amalgamate without all the difficulties that he has propounded. He said that there is no compulsory ballot, and that is true. He made some play of the fact that ballot papers had been intercepted in the post. That is not an argument in favour of the Bill. It simply states a position which he claims exists. I will not argue about that, but if that position does exist at this time the Government should investigate it. I doubt whether a postal ballot could not be taken without the interception that the honourable member for Burke says took place. This should be able to be overcome and I believe it could be overcome. I do not think it is an argument in favour of the passage of the Bill. 
I agree with many of the contentions- I will not repeat them in detail- which the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Opposition's spokesman, presented in support of his case. One of his chief points of which this Parliament should take particular notice was that the safeguards have been eliminated by this Bill. He mentioned the possibility that by stacking the membership a very small percentage of a union 's membership could achieve an amalgamation despite the fact that the great majority of its members perhaps did not want that amalgamation. 
One point I wish to raise and which I believe has to be considered relates to union amalgamation. I do not claim that amalgamation is not desirable in some instances. What concerns me is that experience has shown up to the present time that amalgamation is taking place when it is not needed. Large unions are amalgamating, as I think the honourable member for Wannon said, and the smaller unions are not taking advantage of the conditions which are available to them to amalgamate. There are a large number of members in a small percentage of the unions. Indeed, there is some indication that amalgamation is taking place. If it is taking place in respect of some unions why can it not take place in respect of others? 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration, in his second reading speech, said that the number of trade unions in Australia has been slowly declining. There were 375 in 1956; 305 in 1972; and 294 at the end of 1973. That shows that they have been able to do something about reducing their numbers. The figures given by the Minister in his second reading speech show a large number of separate unions representing small groups of employees. The question one has to consider is the right of those employees to have their own particular unions if so desired. I shall refer to the figures given by the Minister- I am sure he would not argue with those- with regard to the size of unions. He referred to the number of trade unions in 1972; I do not know whether he did not have the figures for 1973. In 1972 there were 305 unions in existence, 158 of which had fewer than 1 000 members. Those unions, if they desired, would surely be able to have a better opportunity to provide for themselves some amalgamation if they were in favour of it. The Minister stated further in his second reading speech that another 82 of the unions had between 1 000 and 5 000 members; 28 between 5 000 and 20 000 members; and 23 between 20 000 and 50 000 members. Only 14 unions had a membership of more than 50 000. 
I agree with the honourable member for Wannon when he says that there is a need for a union to have sufficient numbers and to have sufficient strength to enable them to operate effectively. No one denies the need for and the great value of the trade unions and what they have done for the working people over the years. We accept that. What I do argue though is that one of the faults in the development of the trade union movement has been the tendency for a small militant minority to force their opinions on the great majority of trade unions. I am not convinced that the amalgamation of unions will not promote and expand that particular tactic. I believe that is one of the reasons behind this idea of reducing and making very simple the matter of amalgamation. 
I find it hard to believe that, if unions were keen enough on amalgamation, they could not get 5 1 per cent of their members to record a vote. If that cannot be done I feel that that is what should be investigated. The Minister does not seem to be taking any interest in the discussion, but the Opposition is urging him to look into the ways and means by which he can get an expression of opinion from at least 5 1 per cent of members of a union. The Opposition wants to know that the members of the unions have expressed their opinion. I am as keen to see them having an expression of opinion as I am to see democracy being promoted in any other way. 
If I may digress for a moment, I point out that even in the election of members of this Parliament we have postal voting. I have not heard of any problems arising in relation to the postal voting system used for elections of the Parliament. Why cannot the same system be used in relation to unions? When the Senate returned the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1973 (No. 2) on 8 November 1973, some 15 clauses were completely omitted, and there were some 30 amendments in all which the Minister accepted at that time. Apparently this has not caused any great tragedy in the interim. What has been the problem? Why is the Government so anxious to make conditions for amalgamation to suit the militant minority of the trade unions and trade union leaders? They have enough power now. They are the people who dominate this Government. If they had greater power through amalgamation of unions they would dominate this Government even more. 
So we find that one has to look behind the Bill to see what are the reasons for its introduction. 
The Government is very keen on the amalgamation of unions. I say, in view of the appalling record of the Government in industrial matters, that this is sufficient in itself to give some rise for concern with regard to anything the Government promotes in the way of industrial matters. It is possible that in some instances, as I have said before- I do not object to it and I am sure the Opposition generally does not object to it-an amalgamation is justified. An amalgamation can be justified when the members themselves have expressed an opinion and have shown that at least 51 per cent- that is not a large percentageof them desire an amalgamation. The Government is not satisfied with that. Why? The reason why this is not being accepted by the Government is something that the people of Australia need to look at very carefully. 
I think that the unions themselves could very carefully examine the benefits and the disadvantages of amalgamation before accepting the Government's view. They could easily find themselves suffering some disadvantages. I do not think amalgamation should be forced on the unions by allowing a few people to have a greater say in the affairs of the unions than they are entitled to. I think the unions themselves should look at this matter very carefully before they find themselves in a position where they can be pushed about by big-name union officials. They should be aware of the actions of some Ministers and members of Parliament also who are ever ready to dance to the tune of prominent union officials. There are plenty of examples of that. 
These conciliation and arbitration measures are vital to the welfare of employees. We, on the Opposition side, accept that with the same alacrity as do the members of the Government. All we want to see is that those union members have a democratic right to say what their trade unions are going to do. That is something which has been abused over the years. We do not want to see the members of unions in a position where they can be dominated by a few people in their own unions. It is important that industrial disputes be settled by arbitration and that they be settled by arbitration to a much greater degree than exists at the present time. Industrial disputes have occured to an even greater degree during the term of office of this Government than before. This Government claimed it would have no real trouble in industrial matters because it was going to look after the trade unions. It has done so to the extent that about 300 000 people are unemployed and Australia has an inflation rate which is galloping ahead and which will continue to do so under the policies of this Government. That is the way the present Government has looked after the trade unionists in this country. I advise the trade unionists, in the face of this Government's record in industrial matters, to tread warily when they get advice from it. 
I believe there are circumstances when the amalgamation of unions- I believe there are quite a number of exceptions- would be an advantage. I believe that, in the main, when larger trade unions do amalgamate it leads to greater arrogance on the part of the union leaders, who have enough power now. There are cases where union leaders have encouraged strikes to the great disadvantage of their own members and to the great disadvantage of the community, resulting in a loss of wages, a loss of production and increased costs which force up the ever-spiralling rate of inflation. We do not want that, and I am sure that the union members themselves do not want it either. In his second reading speech the Minister refered to the second reading speech he made in April 1973 in which he said that the Government depends upon the good will of the mass of the ordinary working people. I would say that the goodwill of the mass of the ordinary working people is being eroded very quickly as a result of the actions of this Government. What we want to see is the unionists throughout this country given real freedom of action. I say that the rank and file unionist is a responsible citizen, providing he is given that freedom of action to which he is entitled. We can be charged sometimes with claiming this where it is not in fact true. But this is my opinion of what goes on and it is based on the opinions that I receive from many working people. This Government quite obviously has lost the confidence of the average working person. It has been shown in a number of ways. The Government deserves to lose the confidence of the people. I suggest that those ordinary working people- I use the phrase used by the Minister- may not now be as keen on amalgamated unions as they were. This Government's policy has not benefited the unions that have amalgamated to the extent that was proposed or had been suggested. 
I say again that it is not unreasonable to expect, if unionists are keen on amalgamation, that 5 1 per cent would vote on the issue or on any other issue in which they were keenly involved and interested. If there are restrictions and problems relating to getting this expression of opinion from the unions, I say that it is up to this Government to provide the avenue whereby an opinion from 5 1 per cent of those unionists can be provided without any interception of ballot papers and without any other problems. This Government which claims to represent the working people has this responsibility. I am just simply amazed to see supporters of the Government come in here and talk, as we have heard in this debate, about what is going on in the unions and the trouble that they are having in getting this expression of opinion. I believe that the great problem is that the unionists themselves have a good deal of disinterest in the affairs of the unions because they do not get the opportunity to express their opinion. As a result there is a great deal of apathy among the rank and file members of unions. 
One of the reasons I oppose this Bill is that it takes away the right of unionists to give that expression of opinion which alone can give a true indication of what the average rank and file member, the average working man whom I have praised in the course of this address, is thinking. I still say that they are very worthwhile and responsible citizens. One of the reasons we get this irresponsibility and there is industrial strife is that they are badly led. I support the honourable member for Wannon in his opposition to this Bill. I believe that that is the general opinion of the great majority of the people of this country. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present balance in the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. 
Could the Superannuation Fund be so structured to allow for earlier retirement. 
Are there any plans for the earlier retirement of Australian Public Servants; if so, at what age. 
Is the Postmaster-General's Department required to make a contribution to the Superannuation Fund on account of what is termed superannuation liability; if so, what is the amount of the contribution. 
Are any other Departments required to make a similar contribution; if so, which Departments and what contribution do they make. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory. What steps has the Government taken in the past week or what steps does the Government propose to take in the near future to assist the beef industry? Does the Government welcome the Queensland Government's action in providing $10m to the beef industry at  2V4  per cent interest? In view of the fact that the Queensland Government is itself short of funds, does the Minister believe that the Australian Government should immediately take action to expand the provision of long term, low interest funds? Will the Government suspend the meat export levy which the Minister introduced into this Parliament, increase the availability of finance for reconstruction in the industry and double the income tax averaging limit? With regard to the last three matters, is the Minister aware that 4 months ago the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, which the Minister is so fond of quoting, suggested such a course of action? 
-First of all,  Mr Speaker,  I would like to congratulate you on your election as  Speaker  of this House. This is the first time I have spoken since you were elected. 
The Family Law Bill as passed by the Senate contains major changes to the law relating to divorce and I believe would be more appropriately designated as the divorce law bill. It is designed to replace the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-1966. Might I just say that I believe it would be a good idea if Bills were designated more in line with the purpose they propose to serve. The changes that are proposed in this Bill are far reaching and there has been a good deal of supposition on its effects. This confusion is demonstrated by the very contradictory conclusions that have been reached, even by people who have no strong feelings one way or the other. Some people feel that if the Bill were passed through the second reading stage, then their ideas might be incorporated in the Committee stage. I suggest that no one can be sure of what is going to happen in the Committee stage. One would be taking some sort of risk if one were to depend on getting one's amendments accepted in the Committee stage. Some 90 amendments went through the Senate and there are a number of amendments to be proposed in this chamber. If an amendment were carried, I think it would be very desirable if time were allowed for further consideration to be given to other proposed amendments because I believe that some of them, which are designed to improve the Bill, would probably conflict with other clauses. I believe they need a careful examination. People who claim to have a wide experience in divorce proceedings, and I know they do have a wide experience, have completely differing views on the effect of this Bill on family life. It is true to say that many people have expressed very grave concern about the consequences of the Bill and its contradictions. Clauses 43 and 48 are but 2 examples of these contradictions. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  has suggested what I believe is a very worthwhile amendment to clause 48, but I should like to see this amendment discussed by committees or groups of people from both sides of the House. I believe that all the proposed amendments and all the ramifications of the Bill should be discussed further and perhaps some agreement could be arrived at in order to save the time of this House, rather than having a long debate without full consideration of what the amendments are going to do to the remaining clauses of the Bill. I draw attention to the fact that even the honourable member for Wentworth, a former Solicitor-General, said that he had had some difficulty in this regard. If he has difficulty, then most of us would have difficulty. In a reasoned discussion of this Bill he indicated fairly conclusively, at any rate to me, that there is need for further examination of the Bill. The only way of proving irretrievable breakdown of marriage is to show that the parties have lived separately and apart for one year. Again it has been pointed out that in this Bill the benefits, the advantages and some of the conditions that were contained in the previous Bill have been wiped out. This is a very unusual aspect. I do not know that it has been adequately considered. It has been brought up in this chamber and I hope that it will be adequately considered before the Bill is passed. 
In order to simplify the grounds for divorce the Bill provides a more readily available divorce on the grounds of separation. Therefore, it weakens the marriage contract or the marriage agreement. I contend that to preserve family life as the basic unit of society the marriage contract must not be treated as lightly as is proposed in this Bill. 
I think it would be conceded that many people who claim to be happily married couples today have had strains and stresses on their marriages during the course of the marriages and if it were not for the fact that those people looked upon the marriage contract, the marriage agreement or the marriage ceremony as a very serious undertaking, many of those marriages would have broken down. 
I do not think that we can afford to treat marriage lightly because I believe it is the basic unit in our society. I hope that most people in this House will agree with that view. I believe that the fact that a divorce will be available to either marriage partner, almost without penalty in many instances, simply by leaving the other partner or indeed by claiming that cohabitation has not occurred over a period of 12 months, even if living under the same roof, will encourage marriage to be undertaken with much less concern about the responsibilities of marriage than exists at present. That is one of the great weaknesses of the Bill. Because of this and for other reasons I contend that the one-year period of separation is too short and 2 years separation would be more appropriate to the very serious matter of the civil dissolving of a marriage. 
If the Parliament accepts the fact that there is a need to preserve and to protect the institution of marriage as a union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life, as stated in the Bill at clause 43(a), I contend that divorce made too easy is not the medium by which that objective can be attained. Let there be no misunderstanding about it. This Bill does make divorce much easier by allowing only a 12-month separation as a ground for divorce. I am not opposed to reform. I do not think anyone who has spoken in this debate so far has opposed reform. I would be prepared to accept a reduction to 2 years separation in an endeavour to meet the need for reform. If we accept a shorter period as a basis for divorce on the ground of separation, I contend that we are moving towards a situation in which what will be in effect trial marriage will be undertaken. I believe that is something that should be avoided at all costs. 
I am very strongly in favour of the marriage counselling organisations being financially assisted by the Parliament as a medium for the preservation of marriage. I hope that every effort will be made through the media to encourage the use of these organisations by partners to a marriage as soon as difficulties arise, as early discussions are the most likely to bring results. Indeed, those who perform marriage services could well be required to draw the attention of the parties to a marriage to the fact that this service is freely available to them. While the parties may not be very receptive at that time it still should be drawn to their attention that when they run into the trouble that so many marriages run into, particularly perhaps in the first few years and again at a later stage of marriage, this service is available if that is done. The best advantage can be taken of what I believe is a very desirable part of the Bill being presented to us- a part that should be retained. I do not think enough has been done to encourage counselling and the results have not been as satisfactory as most of us would have liked them to be. That does not mean that we are entitled to neglect this method of trying to preserve marriage. 
A criticism that I have of this Bill is that too much consideration is given to those who want to be absolved from the responsibilities of marriage and too little to those who want to preserve marriage. That is the theme running through this address I am making to the Parliament this morning. Too much consideration is given to those who show no concern for the responsibilities that marriage should impose and too little to those who are prepared to accept the responsibilities of marriage and are willing to endeavour to overcome the difficulties that may arise. Too little consideration is given to the innocent partner of marriage who has been divorced against his or her will. 
The fact that irretrievable breakdown of marriage is the only cause acceptable for divorce under this Bill does not remove the fact that there are innocent partners in at least some marriages that have broken down. The fact that fault or conduct is not a factor to be considered in divorce cases under this Bill does not remove that fact because that fact is there. I think the honourable member for Wentworth made that point in the course of an excellent address on this Bill in this House. It is indeed very tragic that marriages do break down. It is accepted, and I fully accept, that every sympathy and consideration should be shown to those who have tried but failed to make marriage a success. We recognise that. I believe that this Parliament should give its very full consideration to endeavouring to meet both sides of the opposing views. The fundamental factor, however, in the consideraton of such a Bill as the Family Law Bill is how to preserve marriage. That should be the dominant factor. In this regard I consider that this Bill fails, even though the marriage counselling section of the Bill is directed to this end, because of the shortness of the time that is allowed or required before a marriage can be dissolved. 
There has been a very wrong assumption by some speakers on this Bill that those who are supporting the amendment are opposed to reform of our divorce laws. That is just not true. It is a furphy. It is a red herring that has been drawn across the path in an attempt to gain support for this Bill and have it passed. The very fact that the people who support the amendment are agreeable to a reduction from a period of 5 years separation, as exists at the present time, to 2 years, as is proposed in the amendment, shows that those people who are supporting the amendment are indeed supporting reform of our divorce laws. 
Let me point out that the amendment provides for a divorce when a court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than 2 years. As I have mentioned, a period of 5 years separation is required at present. If one goes a little further and looks at the position in England one will see that a period of 2 years separation is accepted only if both parties are in agreement and that a period of 5 years separation is required if they are not in agreement. So we who are supporting the amendment are not opposed to a reform in the divorce laws. In fact, put in another way, the proposal contained in the amendment reduces by no less than 60 per cent the time required as a ground for divorce through separation. The Bill seeks a reduction of 80 per cent. 
So often in the discussion of problems that confront the community of this country we find that whenever there is a move to bring about reform the pendulum swings too far, that the enthusiasm and desire to bring about reform sometimes go to extreme limits. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  who is sitting at the table, has already suggested that perhaps a period of 3 months might be an appropriate period under certain conditions. I say that to get down to that period is to lessen the strength of the marriage bonds and that is one thing that I believe the people of Australia just do not want to do. Indeed, who is to say that there is not going to be even a further reduction from the period of 3 months? The Attorney-General might smile, but I ask: Where do we finish on these sort of things? Are we going to do away with marriage altogether? Is that the objective? I say that we have to be a bit careful about what we are doing. I am not saying that with any feeling of animosity, but I appeal to the Attorney-General to give some consideration to that aspect. 
The Attorney-General has claimed that he is a happily married man. I am very pleased to hear him say that. There are lots of others who are in the same position. I ask the Attorney-General to give every opportunity to the rest of the people of this country to be happily married people too and not to make it so easy for divorce that they can step out of an unhappy marriage that probably could have been preserved by a consideration of the responsibilities that are attached to marriage. Two years is little enough time for separation. For example, if a person went on long service leave without his wife, under the provisions of this Bill he would have completed half the separation time required by the time he returned. He could come home, live normally for 3 months, then he would have to go away for only 6 months to complete the requirements of this Bill as it stands at present. Surely that is not sufficient to dissolve a marriage which is entered into voluntarily by two people of whom one at least places great confidence on the protection that the marriage ceremony gives. 
I know that a separation period of 2 years will not be the ideal time for every case, but will any time be ideal? I believe 2 years is a fair compromise and I hope the Parliament will accept it. Surely we should make the marriage contract require at least a 2 years separation before it is broken and so at least demonstrate that this Parliament does recognise that marriage should not be entered into lightly and that every effort should be made towards reconciliation of the marriage partners. Again I say that this is an aspect at which we should be looking. It is good to try to relieve people of their responsibilities when they have run into trouble. I accept that, but there is also an even greater responsibility to try to preserve marriage. This is particularly important where young children are concerned. In this area the factor of conduct or fault has been accepted in the Bill in regard to the custody of children. This surely must be accepted as reasonable. It is also reasonable to argue that if conduct or fault can be established in regard to the custody of children and in respect of maintenance, it must be possible to establish conduct or fault as a factor in relation to divorce proceedings. Those of us supporting the Bill have not gone so far as to require that. I just mention it to show that we have been fairly reasonable in our approach to the Bill. 
One of the questions which should be answered by honourable members when considering this Bill is whether it will lead to an increase in the number of divorces. If the answer to that question is yes, as I believe it will be, I contend that the amendment asking for 2 years separation should be accepted by the Parliament with the object of maintaining the maximum number of marriages. Figures from other countries show that petitions for divorce have increased following the easing of divorce laws. I draw to the attention of honourable members the situation in Hollywood where marriage is not considered seriously. The number of divorces there show how lightly marriage is entered into. In the few minutes left to me to speak, I would like to refer to the changed conditions upon which maintenance is determined. Clause 72 limits maintenance for the other party only if that other party is able to support himself or herself adequately. For example, if a wife is to obtain maintenance, she would have to prove that such maintenance was necessary in accordance with clause 75, sub-clause (2 ) (b), which states: 
The income, property and financial resources of each of the parties and the physical and mental capacity of each of them for appropriate gainful employment; 
No less than 12 other factors are listed for consideration by the court when maintenance is being determined. I think it can be logically claimed that under this Bill, maintenance for wives is made more difficult and, I believe, made too difficult. There is also the other case where a wife might walk out on her husband without any real reason- she may have got a little too tired or been in some difficulties. Afterwards, as a result of that break, she goes to live with some nohoper, yet her husband would have to provide maintenance under those circumstances. I say again that this is another fault in the Bill, which should be given further consideration. 
I support the amendment which sets out the position which marriage should have in Australia. I think it could be claimed that most people would not object to the earlier parts of that amendment- a condition that marriage should be dissolved only when it has irretrievably broken down and when the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than 2 years. I contend that this is a very broadminded approach to the reform of our divorce laws. It should be readily acceptable to the honourable members of this Parliament, especially those who want divorce law reform combined with better protection for the institution of marriage than is provided by this Bill. I support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart). 
-Tonight I want to reply to some of the comments made by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  when he was speaking in the adjournment debate last night. In the course of his remarks he referred to the Country Party, as my colleague the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  has said, in rather disparaging terms. He also referred to the disgraceful scene which took place in the House last Thursday when the then  Speaker,  the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  was deserted by the great majority of his colleagues, including the honourable member for Bowman. The fact is that  Mr Speaker  Cope acted with great restraint on that occasion, and no fair minded person would disagree with the contention that he was left with no option other than to name the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It was not my intention to develop this subject again, and I would not be doing so if it had not been for the fact that the honourable member for Bowman tried to place all the blame for that scene upon the members of the Opposition. While that sort of thing is being done, I hope that members of the Opposition will take up the challenge and throw it back into the teeth of the Government, with whom the fault really lies for the scene which occurred on Thursday and which is condemned throughout this country. 
The conduct of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and those who followed him across the chamber, including the honourable member for Bowman, marked a new low in behaviour in this Parliament in relation to the recognition of the authority of the  Speaker  since the Labor Party defied the authority of  Mr Speaker  Aston when the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  refused to obey the Speaker's ruling. He was supported by his Leader and the members of his Party. They gathered around him to prevent the taking of the action which should have been taken under the authority of the Speaker's ruling, namely, for him to be removed from the House. The situation was such that the  Speaker  had to leave the chair and adjourn the House. 
Every Australian knows that the blame for the deplorable deterioration of parliamentary democracy that occurred here last Thursday rests fairly and squarely on the shoulders of the Prime Minister and those members of the Labor Party who accepted his ruthless dictation without question. The 4 members of the Labor Party who refused to be associated with the Prime Ministerone of those members was you,  Mr Speaker-  are the people who deserve credit. Those 4 members of the Labor Party- 3 Ministers and you,  Mr Speaker-  deserve credit for their efforts to maintain the standards of democratic government which should be associated with our national Parliament. I regret very much the deterioration of the standards of conduct in this House. The blame does not rest entirely on one side of the House either. I will be fair enough to say that. I look forward- I am sure the Australian people look forward- to a lifting of those standards. It is regrettable that an honourable member should come in here and try to place on the Opposition the blame for what occurred. That has been the tactic of the Government. Such claims need to be refuted completely. When such matters are raised, as far as I am concerned, as I said, they will be refuted by honourable members on this side of the House. 
There is no question at all about the situation. Why would 3 Ministers have dissociated themselves from the action of the Government if what I say is not true? Such an incident has not occurred in years, and it is not likely to occur again unless there is a very grave departure on the part of the Government from the normal proceedings in this place. We cannot do anything but condemn the Government in relation to this matter. While Government supporters try to keep alive the claim that we are to blame for what occurred, we are prepared to meet the challenge. I might say that the Prime Minister has lost the respect of the Australian people, and the people who were present in the Parliament and saw his reckless, ruthless demonstration of intemperate dictatorial authority can bear witness to the fact that he does not deserve to be Prime Minister of this great country. 
Perhaps one should not be surprised to see the majority of the members of the Labor Party desert their colleagues because they are members of a government which in recent months has rejected practically every principle of socialistic philosophy. Why has the Government done that? It has done it to try to restore its failing popularity with the people of this country. The Government is now advocating the encouragement of private enterprise, which in the past it has always deprecated and opposed. It is now allowing takeovers by multinational corporations, a practice which it claimed and has claimed consistently over the years to be detrimental to the welfare of the Australian people and to this country. Only today I read a newspaper article headed: 'Government approves IAC deal'. The article which follows states: 
Reversing the Federal Government's much publicised buy back the farm' policy, the Australian Treasury has given First National City Bank the go ahead to acquire a majority interest in Australia's second largest financier, IAC (Holdings) Ltd. 
What a reversal of policy! Has the Government no shame at all when it is prepared to reverse the policies on which it was elected to govern this country? Surely it should stick to its principles and its ideas, even if they are not popular. Why does it not follow them through? It talks about having a mandate. We heard mention of that in the House today. I think the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  will agree- I see that she is agreeing with me- that the Government has a mandate to do some of the things that it was saying it intended to do. Let me say with all the gallantry that I have- I admire her conduct in the House; she does not deserve condemnation for her conduct in the House- that the Government has no mandate to reverse its policies. It is now trying very incompetently to implement the policies of the Opposition. It has been very ineffective in doing so. 
I warn the Australian people that the Government is completely bereft of credibility and sincerity and is reversing its policies and its principles only in a vain and desperate attempt to regain some of the popularity that it has lost with the Australian people. It is taking this action having seen the devastating results of its policies as reflected in the public opinion polls. That is what has caused it to take the action it has; it has no concern for the people upon whom it is now trying recklessly to lavish funds, which it will have to try to finance when it draws up its Budget. During all the long years this country has had a Federal government, there has never been a more blatant and cynical sacrifice of a loyal member of any party by other members of the same party. All of the time honoured principles of the Australian Labor Party have gone by the board simply for the sake of expediency, as have the policies on which the Labor Party has said it was elected to office. 
There is no doubt that if the Government succeeds in hoodwinking the Australian people- God forbid that it does- it will have a change of heart immediately it gains some security of tenure of office. It will again resort to the promotion of policies and principles that it has promoted over the years. We only have to look at the speech which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  delivered to the Labor Party Conference at Terrigal to find that this is so. In referring to the Labor Party's Economic Committee he said: 
The Committee is of the opinion that the events ofthe last two years have brought us to a dme where the platform needs to be redrafted- not because our goals have altered but because we have gained experience in pursuit of our aims. 
The Labor Party is prepared to wait a while because it is compelled to wait a while. The gallup polls are not enabling it to do otherwise. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  does not like hearing what I am saying. He can go outside if he likes. That is where he was most ofthe day, anyway. There is no doubt that if the Government succeeds in hoodwinking the people in this it will shift ground. I have quoted a portion of the speech of the  Deputy  Prime Minister at Terrigal. I could cite many arguments on this reversal. I turn finally to the matter of the capital gains tax which the Government said it would not introduce. When the  Deputy  Prime Minister was asked whether business could count on this he said: 'Yes, it can. We will not introduce this for 6 months or perhaps 12 months'. What on earth good is that for business people? It just goes to show that this is a temporary change of heart and we can look forward with great trepidation to a continuance of the socialistic policies which have ruined the economy of Australia and which have put 300 000 people out of work in the short time that Australia has been blighted by a Government of this standard. 
-Tonight I too want to talk about the position of the beef industry in Australia. The delay of the Government in taking any worthwhile action to assist the Australian beef industry has dismayed not only beef producers but also all residents of country towns and provincial cities, particularly those which derive a great deal of their prosperity from beef production. The Government has a callous disregard of the welfare of beef producers, the workers engaged in the industry and in towns servicing areas where beef production is largely or partly responsible for the existence of these towns and the jobs they provide. This indicates that the Government has little concern for workers outside the metropolitan area apart from primary producers. The government claims in this House, through the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who represents here the Minister for Agriculture, that the Government has done what the National Cattlemen's Council asked it to do and, at the same time, claims that this was the attitude taken by the Opposition parties when in government. What the Minister did not say was that the National Cattlemen's Council acted on advice that the only relief that cattlemen could hope for at that time was from a request, which was made in about October of last year, that some funds be made available to producers at commercial rates of interest. The Australian National Cattlemen's Council took this action with the object of having some finance available for cattle producers. 
-As my friend, the honourable member for Wimmera says, they were told to take it or leave it. 
I do not know whether it is true or not. But if the honourable member for Wilmot had taken more interest in the plight of cattle producers in Tasmania and elsewhere he certainly would have seen to it that his Government at least would have lifted the export tax on meat. But he sits there and in a sneering sort of way says that our claim that the cattle producers were told that they could take or leave what was offered to them is not true. I ask the honourable member to tell me then what his Government did do. That is the important point. You should not tell me what the Cattlemen's Council advice was, because you would not know what its advice was or where it got it. You would not know anything about it. Anyhow, since then the Government has had another - 

 -Mr Speaker, I should like the honourable member for Wilmot to keep a little bit quiet for a while. 

 -Mr Speaker, since that time the Government has had another more realistic but still very modest proposal from the Australian National Cattlemen's Council. It has had it before it for many weeks, but no action has been taken on it. I believe the honourable member for Wilmot might be a member of the Government's Rural Committee. If he is, it is time he and that Committee took some action to see that the request of the Australian National Cattlemen's Council was acceded to by the Government. This bitterly anti-rural Government has not even removed or deferred the meat export tax, which was not justified even when it was first imposed and now, in relation to the very low prices being received by cattle producers, is a very savage and oppressive tax. The price of beef has fallen to well below the cost of production and marketing in many instances. Because of my concern- and I am sure the concern is shared by members of my Party and indeed by members of the Opposition generally- a few weeks ago I sent a telegram to  Dr Patterson.  I sent it to him because he was the one who said in this House that the Government was doing what the Australian National Cattlemen's Council had asked it to do. The telegram read as follows: 
You will recall claiming in Parliament that the Government had met the request of the Australian National Cattlemen 's Council. 
A more realistic, but still very modest proposal from the ANCC has been before the Government for over a month. The desperate financial situation of cattle producers demands immediate action by the Government to implement completely these latest proposals, including the long overdue lifting of export tax on meat. 
On behalf of cattle producers in Maranoa and elsewhere I request your urgent reply stating clearly the Government's decision on the latest ANCC submissions. 
Any further delay would be inexcusable. 
Despite the fact that I sent that telegram, I have not even received an answer; I have not even received an acknowledgment of that telegram. I suggest that this is further evidence of the complete disregard by this union dominated, metropolitan oriented Government, of the rural towns and districts and the people living in them. Recently I was asked if it was correct that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had been advised that the Japanese Government had indicated its willingness to allow the resumption of imports of Australian beef. I now ask the Prime Ministerand I told him I was going to speak on this tonight- whether this is correct. I hope he will give me a reply as soon as he has had the chance to have a look at the record of my remarks tonight. If it is correct, I ask him why an announcement has not been made. I pose the question: Is it too soon after the return of the Queensland Government's trade mission to Japan under the leadership of the Queensland Minister for Primary Industry, the Honourable B. B. Sullivan, which made such a favourable impression in that country, for the Prime Minister to answer the question? In any case, I ask: What does the Government intend to do even at this late stage to assist the beef industry and all those people who depend on it? Does it intend to continue its inexcusable and indefensible delay in complying with requests made by the industry and indeed made by me and by other members of the Opposition? That is the clear question that I am asking the Government tonight I ask it on behalf of cattle producers everywhere and on behalf of the people who reside in the towns, including the workers of those towns, and provincial cities which are dependent fairly largely in many instances and very largely in some instances on the cattle industry for their survival. 
In the course of the short time remaining to me, I will refer to a letter which has been sent to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  by the Australian National Cattlemen's Council. This long letter was written on 13 February of this year. I will quote a couple of paragraphs from it. That will be sufficient to show what the change in the attitude of that Council is. I draw attention to the fact that the Council was most moderate in its earlier requests. Therefore, I ask the Government to look at this request from that angle bearing in mind that many requests have been made asking for much more than this letter seeks. Let me quote one example. The Council says in its letter: 
The current interest rate of 1  Vi  per cent is too high for most producers. 
That would be the understatement of the year. The letter continues: 
Many producers will not be able to pay interest at these rates and hence are not making application. The Council would recommend that the rate of interest be subsidised to no more than 5 per cent, during the period that cattle prices are low. The cost of such a subsidy would be $2.6m per annum assuming loans to producers eventually total $40m. 
The Council requests also that: 
Consideration should be given to capitalising interest at 5 per cent, into the loan for those producers who are unable to pay interest in the first year (this could result in cases where there is no outlet for cattle, such as store breeders, producers in the (Catherine and in areas where the supply of cattle offering is greater than the abattoirs can process). 
It states further: 
The original $20m be add-,i 'o as required. 
In the light of the conditions being suffered by cattle producers today, one could not get a much more moderate request. The cold hard facts are that the Government is not interested. It certainly could have done much more. The very least it could have done would have been to lift the export tax which was only applied in 1973. If the Government had any indication of what these people are suffering, I am sure it would have done something about the situation. It is obvious that the Government does not have any idea about what is happening and, furthermore, those who do know- if there are any members of the Government who do know- just do not care. 
I will not delay the consideration of the Committee for very long. I was interested in the comments of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  when he spoke of the appointment of a person as a Distribution Commissioner who was not even a surveyor. I draw attention to clause 6 which states: 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the words 'and, if his services are obtainable, one shall be the SurveyorGeneral of the State or an officer having similar qualifications' . . . 
If there is any logic to the Minister's argument with regard to the officer having similar qualifications, I ask the Minister why the words 'and, if his services are obtainable, one shall be the Surveyor-General' are used. Surely the SurveyorGeneral should be the person who, having been appointed to a high position in the State, would be eminently qualified to act as a Distribution Commissioner. I wonder why this has been done. In this case the appointment that has been made goes right down to the State. There is no query about this man's appointment to his position. He is recognised as being one of the appointees. To put it mildly, if we are to talk about people being omitted or being put in I would like to know why the Surveyor-General of a State should be specifically omitted when he has held that position for so long. I believe that it is necessary when we undertake a redistribution of electoral boundaries that there be the highest confidence of the public in the Distribution Commissioners. I am not being critical of them. But if one of these commissioners happens to be the Surveyor-General, if his services are available, this gives a degree of impartiality which it is not easy to obtain or to convince the public has been obtained. I believe that to omit these words from this clause is a retrograde step. 
-The question of the interpretation of the Constitution relative to actions of members of Parliament which may put them in breach of the Constitution has recently received a considerable amount of publicity. 
I do not know of any way in which I have breached the Constitution, but I am very concerned about the situation in which many honourable members may find themselves. There may be many of us who are in breach of the Constitution without being aware of it. In any case it would be appropriate for any honourable member to look for a fair and just solution to a problem which has arisen in regard to possible breaches of the Constitution, and I look for the support of honourable members on both sides of the House in an endeavour satisfactorily to resolve this disturbing situation. The" Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has stated:  
Now if we find that many of us have transgressed the Constitution and placed our seats in jeopardy, then the cure is not to ignore the Constitution but to ask the people to amend it. 
The weakness of this approach is that there is no guarantee that the people would be prepared to amend the Constitution. The whole history of referenda in relation to amending the Constitution is that the Australian people are very reluctant to make any change. However, I think that this matter must be clarified. 
I feel that it is a very important question and one which could affect many honourable members. As I have said, as far as I am aware, I am not affected by it myself but I think that if we were to give some thought to the matter we might find that quite a few honourable members would be affected, and who knows who would be included. Quite a few honourable members might be in technical breach of the Constitution. I want to emphasise that I am referring only totechnical breaches of the Constitution or breaches that have occurred without honourable members being aware that their actions could be in breach of the Constitution and where no impropriety is associated with the action. I am concerned that these breaches could be very widespread and could reach a position which the Prime Minister has called a farcical situation. If this is the case, then clearly the matter must be cleared up. The Government in the Senate has. proposed that a question currently under discussion should be referred to the Court of Disputed Returns for determination. 
-We have heard a fairly long speech by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  but he did not say much. I think he even got on the nerves of some of his own colleagues, in view of the note that was passed to him. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  this Bill was the subject of a substantial debate in this House not so long ago. What he did not say, if I remember rightly, is that this BUI was debated also in the Senate on, I think, 3 December. The Hansard report for the Senate as well as for this House contains quite a substantial record of what the Opposition thinks about this legislation. I think it would be a waste of time if we were to reiterate those views because we have put our case in an efficient way, and nothing that the honourable member for Melbourne said refutes our arguments. 
I want to take a little bit of time to reply in a particular way. The honourable member for Melbourne concluded his speech by saying that the people who controlled the broadcasting and television industry in this country could not lie straight in bed, or words to that effect. I refer to the concern that is felt by the Federation of Australian Broadcasters, which body represents some stations which are controlled by the Party to which the honourable member belongs. It might be thought that the Federation has a specialised interest in the matter but I point out that it controls some stations which did not dissociate themselves from a resolution of the Federation. I think the substance of the resolution would be worth repeating. The Federation unanimously affirmed its determination to support the principles that the public is best served by the continuance of the freedom of the commercial broadcasting industry to program its stations in accordance with the demonstrable interests of the communities which it serves. That is part of the resolution passed by the Federation. 
When I was mentioning this in November last I remember the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  taking a point of order against me but it was not upheld by the  Speaker.  So he does not know much about the Act or about what he was saying. The resolution also said that, while accepting the desirability of broad national program standards, which already exist, the Australian commercial broadcasters consider that the legislative moves to provide dictatorshipand I emphasise that word- by the Government through the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in respect of what shall be presented to the public could assuredly result in repression of the opportunity of the public to hear free expression of program material of community interest. The deep concern of the broadcasters in respect of these matters as related to the proposals contained in the amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act, which in essence gives the Government appointed Board control over programming news services and advertising functions of commercial broadcasters, is for the serious implications in continuing to provide to the community an acceptable free enterprise service which they have enjoyed in the past. In the light of the foregoing, member stations unanimously approved immediate action to protect broadcasting against unfair political attacks from any party. I said that before. I think it is worth repeating. Possibly the Government introduced this Bill again to have a repetition of the previous debate on it, but I believe that it is more likely, as the honourable member for Kooyong said, that it reintroduced the Bill so that it would have another string to its bow in case it decided to have another double dissolution of the Parliament. I warn the Government against that. I think it knows pretty well itself that there is grave danger in that. 
I should like to raise one or two other points. I said that I would not speak for long, because I take the attitude that rehashing debates and reintroducing legislation like this to a large extent wastes the time of this Parliament. The time would be better spent promoting and debating matters which have not been fully debated in this House before. I emphasise that we on the Opposition side welcome and encourage Australian talent. We welcome Australian programs and we will promote them to the best of our ability in every way within reasonable limits 
The honourable member for Melbourne referred to bias in programs. I am sorry that he has not remained in the chamber to hear my comments. There has been creeping into news services and other radio and television programs a bias which is causing great concern and which has been ventilated in recent times. The amount of public interest that it has attracted has surprised even me. I hope that consideration is given to trying to ensure a reasonable presentation of each angle of the news. The reason I raise this matter is that if the Government had the control which it aims to achieve and if that bias were to develop and grow one could wonder where it would stop. That is a matter to which we should give very serious consideration. If bias has crept in at this stage, and I believe it has, how much would it grow if a government-controlled board had the authority to control programs completely? The Federation of Australian Broadcasters would not have the power it has today. It would be more under the control. I do not like the idea of a 6-months licence. I do not think that is time enough for any program, although it has been accepted. Previously the period was 3 months. I was very concerned about that. Talking from a personal point of view, I do not like 6 months either. I think licences should be granted for 12 months and provision should be made that a licence can be revoked if there is an abuse of it. That applies to licences that are granted in most areas. 
I should like to say something about television in the western areas of Queensland which I represent. The Minister for Science need not smile. The people in those areas have a problem. The television reception they get is far from satisfactory. If the Minister is prepared to take an interest I should like him to explain why the equipment provided in those areas was so unsatisfactory. That is something he should look at. The people in those areas are not smiling about it. In Charleville 2 aerials are now being erected to get over the problem. At Mitchell the aerial has been relocated and air-conditioned studios provided. I welcome the introduction of television in those areas, but I query why the equipment provided was not examined very carefully to see whether it was suitable for the purpose for which it was provided. Why did faults occur? I have been in touch with the authorities. They are doing their best under the circumstances to overcome the problems that have arisen, but I should like the Minister to look at the basis of the provision of that equipment and why it has given such unsatisfactory service. 
I suppose it has been operating for 12 to 18 months. It has been going for quite some time. The authorities are endeavouring to assist, but I understand from the people in the area that the signal will not be as strong as it was originally expected to be and as it was advertised it would be. I hope that that will be looked at. I have spoken for a little longer than I said I would, because I wanted to touch on a few of these points. This Bill had been debated in this House and another place very fully and there is nothing really worth changing. It should not have been debated again. The only reason it has been debated again is that the Government might want to use it as a basis for a double dissolution of the Parliament. If that is not the reason, I believe that its reintroduction has been more or less a waste of time. 
I am very concerned about the present financial position of local government and what the future holds for it. In the past, local governments have relied on their own resources for about 80 per cent of their current receipts and on grants from the State, governments for the remainder. This applied in the 1972-73 financial year, which was the latest year for which I could obtain authentic figures. Revenue available from local governments' own resources largely comprises general rates based on land values. As demand for local government services has increased, local governments have had to rely increasingly on loan funds to finance their current expenditure. Between 1968-69 and 1972-73 final consumption expenditure of a non-capital nature increased by about 58 per cent, while total receipts, not including advances on loans, increased by only 49 per cent. This means that the local government debt burden has been growing steadily to the extent that local government debts outstanding on all loans as at 30 June 1971 were no less than $ 1,730.5m. That again is the latest figure I could obtain. 
The Queensland figures for 1972-73 represented a rise of approximately 20 per cent over the 1970-71 figures. This indicates a substantial rise in the national figure. It means that funds intended for investment projects have had to be used for current or consumption expenditure, creating a backlog of essential capital works projects. More recently, local government authorities, in common with other people, have been facing rapidly rising costs- particularly wages. This has made a worsening financial situation critical for some local authorities and in some cases has resulted in cutback in staff and hence on planned projects. To try to cope with the number of unemployed which is increasing in local government areas and in local government employees, the Government has introduced the Regional Employment Development scheme. But that, while welcomed by local authorities and by myself as a member of Parliament, has the disadvantage of being a temporary measure. It provides work for only a limited period and people have to go on the unemployment list again before being re-employed. It is a relief measure, but only a relief measure. 
The following figures show the latest award increases for some selected grades of employees. These figures are taken from the local authorities and main roads awards for Queensland, excluding Brisbane. For example, a general construction labourer had a wage of $57.80 a week in March 1973 and $94.01 in October 1974-an increase of 63 per cent. Under the Brisbane City Council Municipal Officers Award, in March 1973 the salary of a male clerk, first year, was $3,632 per annum and by July 1974 it had risen to $6,384 per annum- an increase of 76 per cent. I could quote other figures of a similar nature. Faced with such large and unpredictable cost increases, local governments find it difficult to adjust their rate revenue to meet rising costs. Indeed, in many local government areas rates have already reached saturation point. 
Local government associations and many people actively involved in local government write with certainty and with considerable indignation on the burden imposed on the ratepayer. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations' survey of local government finances states: 
The result is that one section of the community only- the ratepayer- has received and is receiving the full impact of the heavy increases, particularly in respect of those services and amenities the whole community shares. 
The States also have been faced with increasing demands for the provision of goods and services for which they are responsible and also have incurred an increase in the debt burden over the years. Under the uniform tax legislation passed in 1942, only the Federal Government levies income tax. Consequently, the revenue resources of the States are limited, like those of local governments, and they have to rely increasingly on transfer payments from the Federal Government. As a result, local governments also have had to turn in recent years to the Australian Government for financial assistance. Unless Federal-State financial relations are changed, this trend will of necessity continue. 
It is becoming increasingly obvious that the methods by which local governments have been financed down the years is now very unsatisfactory. I believe that the best and fairest method of financing local authorities would be for local government to be provided with a percentage of tax collected by the Australian Government and paid through the State governments. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations accepts this view and favours 5 per cent of income tax being allocated for the purpose of local government finance, thus providing local governments with a growth tax income. A number of local and State government interests have strongly criticised the Australian Government's plan of regionalism. They have seen it as a diminution of local freedom, as a less effective community democracy and' as an encroachment of Canberra control over local councils, to the ultimate disadvantage of both State and local governments. I contend that there is a sound basis for that reasoning. 
The payment of revenue assistance to local government bodies with strings attached could reduce the economy of local governments. The extent to which this will occur will depend on the nature and flexibility of the conditions imposed. While the Regional Employment Development scheme certainly is not designed to assist the long term financial difficulties of local government authorities, there is even some doubt as to whether it is effectively assisting local authorities in alleviating pockets of unemployment to the extent desired. Although the Australian Government had committed $65. 4m as at 5 March 1975 under the RED scheme, only $ 15.5m had been spent by the end of March. The main problem is probably the time involved in planning and submitting a suitable program and having that program approved. 
In conclusion, I urge the Government to recognise the desperate financial situation in which many local governments now find themselves. Let me emphasise that the position is steadily growing worse. It is being aggravated by the extra responsibilities that local governments have to face. The local ownership plan for aerodromes is an example of the type of responsibility that local government is now expected to shoulder. I repeat that there is an urgent need for local governments to be provided with a source of revenue which has an inherent growth factor. The request for the provision of 5 per cent of income tax receipts, as recommended by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, is one that should be met by the Australian Government if it expects local government to continue to carry the ever-increasing responsibilities it has to shoulder and if local government is to survive. 
Despite the present very depressed conditions in the pastoral industry, particularly the beef industry, the Government is pressing forward with its plan to have local government accept responsibility for the ownership of local aerodromes where, in fact, that has not been done already. This program has been going on for some time, but I think that some consideration should be given to local government. Where the Federal Government still has control of local aerodromes, in areas in which the local authorities are in very serious financial difficulty, at least some consideration should be given to such authorities in local government. 
It is absolutely essential that local government be able to plan ahead and to plan for the work it has to do in the provision of amenities and in looking after the needs of citizens. In my opinion, local government, dollar for dollar provides better value for the community than the other 2 arms of government do. So it is a false economy to limit the finances that are available to local government. I make this plea today that the Government give very serious consideration to the ever- worsening position of local government financing and take some concrete steps- apart from the Regional Employment Development Scheme- which will allow local government to plan ahead and to receive the finances that it deserves to fulfil its reponsibility. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  Some of the arguments I support have been put already by other honourable members, including the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  who spoke last. A fundamental point that must be considered is that the Bill must give justice to all. I submit that if proposed new paragraph (c) is deleted we will debar some members of the community from justice. It was pointed out in the second reading speech that when alterations are made to most Acts of Parliament existing rights are maintained. I think that is the core of paragraph (c). Under the Bill the right to obtain a divorce immediately will be removed if paragraph (c) is deleted. Unfortunately there are certain circumstances, though not in the majority of cases, where immediate divorce is desirable and almost necessary to safeguard the rights or even the lives of people concerned, if you like to take it to that extreme. As I see it, paragraph (c) is an important part of the Bill. 
The other 2 parts of the amendment are, as has been mentioned, a matter of judgment. They relate to the time which should elapse before a divorce is granted. In legislation passed by other parliaments-for example in the United Kingdomthere has been a much wider difference in time between the situation in which parties agree to a divorce and the situation in which there is no agreement between the parties. I believe that principle too should be upheld. Surely it is reasonable that people who are entering the institution of marriage must have some respect for the rights of the other party. If they can come to an agreement that there has been an irretrievable breakdown of marriage, the proposed amendment allows for a divorce after a separation of 12 months. But its intent is to protect the rights of the party who is not agreeable to a divorce and who may quite reasonably believe that the passage of time could bring about a reconciliation of the parties. Whilst some people might argue against the likelihood of that happening, I believe that the important point is that there should be justice for all. I believe it would be reasonable to allow the other party of that marriage that extra opportunity. 
If we do not allow a reasonable opportunity to parties to a marriage who are not satisfied that there has been an irretrievable breakdown of marriage, surely it is reasonable to give them time over and above that which will be allowed to parties who have come to an agreement that there is an irretrievable breakdown of marriage. We ask only that the 2 people engaged in a marriage contract who have undertaken to try to preserve that marriage contract should be given at least the most reasonable opportunity to preserve that marriage. The Bill states that the desire is to maintain marriage. I believe that the proposed amendment sets out what the great majority of the people in Australia would like to see- a responsible and reasonable approach to divorce with justice for all. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Are the Minister and the Government aware of the desperate financial position facing beef producers in Australia today? If so, why is the Government so adamant about retaining the beef export tax, which is increasing the heavy losses being experienced in the production of beef at the present time, and why is the Government not making funds available to the industry under conditions that will enable all beef producers in need of funds to participate and so help them to survive the severe depression that the industry is now experiencing and that has been aggravated by rising costs and inflation largely brought about as a result of the Government's policies? 
My question which is addressed to the Special Minister of State is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Phillip. Is the Minister aware that the Australian Federation of Local Government Associations has made up its mind as to what it wants in the way of financial assistance and has asked that 5 per cent of income tax collections be made available to local government? Further, does the Government intend to take any action to provide this essential assistance to local government so as to enable it to relieve the people of this country of their rate burden? 
I oppose the redistribution of the boundaries in Queensland; the National Country Party of Australia opposes the redistribution of the boundaries in Queensland; and the Liberal Party of Australia opposes the redistribution of the boundaries in Queensland. The only real argument we have heard from the Government in regard to the boundaries in Queensland has been a futile attempt to try to stir up a bit of trouble between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. That is doomed to failure. That is the whole core of the Government's attack today. It has scarcely mentioned boundaries; it has just talked about the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. I have been associated with the National Country Party over very many years; and, as vice-president of the Party in Queensland and, well before I was elected to that office, as, I believe, an influential member of the organisation and as a member of this Parliament, I have never condoned an approach by our Party to contest a Liberal-held seat. Government supporters can put that in their pipes and smoke it. The only gains that have been made by the National Party in Queensland have been made at the expense of the Australian Labor Party. It is no wonder that the Government is sour about it. 
There are a number of very sound and well based reasons why we should oppose these redistributions. Before I go any further I should say that I have the greatest respect for the Commonwealth Electoral Office and its officers right down through the organisation. They are dedicated people and I pay tribute to them. The attitude that the Labor Party has taken up is that one cannot debate the boundaries without reflecting on the integrity of the Distribution Commissioners. What utter rot! What utter nonsense! Even in the last redistribution in Queensland the Chief Electoral Officer in Queensland issued a minority report. Did he suggest anything against the integrity of the other 2 Commissioners in that State? Why are these proposals brought into this Parliament, except for the pros and cons and the justice of them to be debated? They would come here only for a rubber stamp, otherwise. Why should we be allowed to debate the boundaries at all if we are not to debate whether they are fair and reasonable? 
One of the reasons why I oppose, and many others oppose, the redistribution at present is that it should have been delayed until after the census which is due in June next year- not in a few years time, as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said. Is that a few years time? Of course, he cannot even count. Someone here said that he is the best numbers man the Government has. He did not even know that the National Country Party won by an absolute majority. When his attention was drawn to that by the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and many members of the National Country Party, he could not understand. If he had understood he certainly would not have maintained that untruth; he would have withdrawn it. He has never withdrawn it; so apparently he does not understand. If he is the best numbers man the Government has, it is very short indeed of good numbers men. Another reason why the redistribution should not have taken place at this time is that 3 States have a case before the High Court questioning the validity of the present Electoral Act. Surely it would have been proper for that legal challenge to have been decided before the redistribution was proceeded with, when no urgency at all was apparent. Indeed, the only urgency for a redistribution could have been from a party political angle. That is the situation. A number of honourable members from this side have pointed out that the redistribution was carried out because if favours the Labor Party nationally. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  in his speech on the South Australian redistribution proposals, gave the figures in relation to the advantage. I have them here. He said that a 3 per cent swing against the Government would give the Opposition a gain of 12 seats under the present boundaries but a gain of only 7 seats under the redistribution proposals. So the Labor Party will gain nationally, and everybody knows that. A redistribution from a party political point of view not only is unjustified but also is a misuse of parliamentary power. 
There are a number of reasons for opposing the redistribution. I have to select the best ones. One of the main ones is that new proposals do not give sufficient consideration to community of interest. In fact, in the new electorate, proposed by the Commissioners to be named Flynn and renamed Kennedy by the Government, community of interest has been disregarded completely. The  2  largest centres of population in that proposed Division, as has been mentioned before, are Mount Isa and Dalby. I ask you,  Mr Deputy  Speaker: What community of interest does Mount Isa, a large mining town in the far north-western part of Queensland, have with large towns in south-western Queensland, of which Dalby is the largest, which depend on servicing highly fertile farming and grazing lands and whose manufacturing industries are almost totally engaged in the manufacturing of farming implements? It is worth remembering too that Dalby and Mt Isa are over 1000 miles apart. 
In support of my contention that community of interest has been disregarded, I would like to quote from the statement by Distribution Commissioner,  Mr I.  F. Weise, the Electoral Officer for Queensland, for whom I have great respect, giving his reasons for dissenting from the proposals relating to the divisions of Capricornia, Darling Downs, Dawson, Fisher, Kennedy, Maranoa and Wide Bay in the 1968 redistribution of the State of Queensland into electoral divisions.  Mr Weise  in that report gave reasons two of which I will refer to, for his dissent. The first was that the proposed division of Kennedy encroached upon the area of south east Queensland with which it has little or no community of interest. Let me repeat that: The proposed division of Kennedy encroached upon the area of south east Queensland with which it has little or no community of interest. That was said by the Electoral Officer for Queensland. The other reason for dissent was that the boundaries of the proposed divisions of Kennedy and Maranoa, comprising 247 500 square miles and 194 565 square miles respectively, each extend from the western boundary of Queensland to within 140 miles of the city of Brisbane. The other 2 reasons for dissent did not affect the electorate of Maranoa at all and affected the electorate of Kennedy only in respect of one of them. 
There has been no change in the character of the electorates since that time to justify any change of opinion. Previously, in 1968,  Mr Weise  in his minority report objected to the electorate of Kennedy extending from Mt Isa to Gayndah. The present proposal would have it extend from Mt Isa to Texas on the New South Wales border, some 300 kilometres further into south east Queensland. So on  Mr Weise  's own 1968 assessment- and he is a man with great experience and knowledge in this field- community of interest has been ignored on this occasion. Some effort has been made to suggest that this is a good idea. It was made by the Australian Labor Party in its submission to the Distribution Commissioners, the last part of which said: 
Communication by commercial airline and three western rail lines would facilitate serving the large western seat, a consideration which did not seem apparent when the boundaries for Kennedy seat were set in 1 968. 
According to the submission of the Labor Party, it was not apparent that there were any railway lines there in 1968. Has it only just found out that much about Queensland? These 3 railway lines were there in the last century. The airline services of Trans-Australia Airlines have been reduced and if it were not for private operators such as Pagas and Bush Pilots we would have a very poor service in the electorate proposed to be created by the redistribution. Let me again refer to the people I honour so much, those in the Australian Electoral Office, and to representations made by  Mr Taylor,  the Divisional Returning Officer for Maranoa, to see whether he agrees with the comments on communication. He said, referring to Maranoa only: 
The Division presently covers a vast area and in some ways the communications instead of improving have, in some areas either not improved or deteriorated, therefore, I feel it is important when considering the additional electors to be added to this Division the important things to which serious thought should be given are: 
Maximum number of electors to be obtained from within a minimum area. 
b ) Close and direct communications. 
One cannot get a more impartial view on communications than that, because  Mr Taylor  has no axe to grind. So much for community of interest. The only people I know who have proposed this type of redistribution are those in the Australian Labor Party. Certainly the proposals were altered slightly as a result of representations made but they did not affect the major situation, that is, the extremities of the electorates. 
Let me again refer to a view which shows at least a lack of bias against the National Country Party. I quote from an article by  Mr Elgin  Reid of the 'Courier-Mail', an expert in his field, who described this proposed redistribution of Western Queensland as 'a monstrous affair', a scathing criticism from a competent critic who would have no axe to grind. Never in my experience in politics has there been such an uprising against an electoral proposal, and if I concentrate on this proposal it is because of lack of time and because it is a prime example of the injustice of the redistribution which has occurred in Queensland and, perhaps, in other States as well. Local authorities in the electorate of Maranoa in the past have not taken a very active interest in these matters but so great was their concern at the unjust treatment handed out to western Queensland people in this redistribution that approximately 80 per cent of the shires in the division of Maranoa registered protests against what they considered unjust treatment of western Queensland in the proposals put forward. Although these proposals have been altered slightly, they have not been altered in the direction of the main objection. 
Queensland's outlying areas since Federation have been broadly contained within 3 electorates, a far northern electorate, a central electorate and a southern and south western electorate. I think the Minister for Services and Property said that the central electorate is Dawson. Why not take it to to the Northern Territory border if we are to have a central electorate there and alter the boundaries to suit the numbers that would be included within such an electorate? Let us look at this question from the point of view of industry organisations. The graziers Association of Central and Northern Queensland services the central and northern areas of the State which are largely contained within the existing electorate of Kennedy. On the other hand, the Graziers Associations of South- West Queensland, Warrego and Maranoa are almost wholly within the boundaries of the existing Maranoa electorate which also contains a considerable proportion of the area of the South-East Queensland Graziers Association. The South-Western Local Authorities Development Association services almost all the inland, southern and south western areas and other local government associations service the areas further north. 
Time does not allow me to give all the information that I have here but I hope that the people whose remarks I have quoted will be regarded as responsible people.  Mr Taylor,  the Divisional Returning Officer for Maranoa, enjoys a very high reputation as an efficient and completely impartial public servant and I am sure that that reputation would be upheld by at least the vast majority of responsible citizens in the area in which he lives. I am sure it would be supported also by the Electoral Officer for Queensland and the Chief Australian Electoral Officer as well. When he made these representations, he made them as a very responsible citizen and I congratulate him on taking that amount of interest. I congratulate the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for their contributions to this debate. They expressed a very wide and sensible approach. I believe it would be a tragedy if we were to lose the electorate of Griffith and the honourable member for Griffith. 
Speaking with some authority because I represent in this Parliament the great majority of the people who would come within the proposed electorate of Kennedy, if there would be confusion by retaining the name 'Griffith', why would there not be confusion in retaining the name of 'Kennedy ' because the great majority of electors concerned are now within the present division of Maranoa. And while I have no objection to having an electorate named Forde, I believe it is a tragedy that probably the greatest Queenslander of them all,  Sir Samuel  Griffith, is to have his name taken from an electoral division in Queensland.  His  name should have remained. They changed the name of an electorate from Flynn to Kennedy in order to retain that name, so why not retain the name of Griffith? The redistribution is unfair. That is not a reflection on the Commissioners but a statement of fact. It is unfair to the people of Queensland. Do those 2000 people in western Queensland whom the Minister disparaged deserve no representation at all? The Minister is supposed to be representing people but says that because there are only 2000 people in an area they should not be taken notice of. 
The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Tonight I want to refer to the difficulty that I have had in getting information, particularly from the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Minister representing him in this House, the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson). 
Some weeks ago duing the absence overseas of the Minister for Agriculture and in response to requests for information from my constituents concerning the Government's intentions in relation to retaining or lifting the beef export tax, I sent a telegram to the Minister's representative in this House, the Minister for Northern Development. To the best of my knowledge I have not even had an acknowledgement of that telegram. When the Minister for Agriculture returned I sent him a copy of the telegram that I had sent to the Minister for Northern Development. Again, I have not received an acknowledgement from him indicating that the telegram has been received. 

 Mr Speaker, you will be aware of the difficulties Opposition backbenchers have in asking questions. Because I have not received a reply to the telegram I decided I would ask a question on the subject in order to obtain the information for which I was looking. The question was not a long one. I began by asking the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture why the Government was so adamant about retaining the beef export tax. My object was to obtain some information. I coupled that with another question, on the same subject. I asked why the Goverment was not making funds available to enable all beef producers in need of funds to participate and so help them survive in the severe depression being experienced by the industry. The Minister in a very sarcastic way, asked me if I was able to read. I knew perfectly well what had gone on. What I was looking for, of course, was the availability of more funds under conditions which would spread them across the industry and thereby assist the industry generally. 
I want to raise 3 points in connection with this matter. How does an honourable member get information for his constituents in these circumstances? Has the Government any right to fail to give honourable members information when they make the effort that I made? I have not been unreasonable about it. I have not pressed for replies and I decided to try to obtain the information by way of a question. For those who understand my point- I am sure there are many who do- honourable members do not like to use up their opportunities to ask questions, because they know they will not have many. It was with some effort on my part I attempted to obtain some information. Had the Minister replied to the telegrams I sent initially there would have been no reason for me to ask the question. I raise this matter tonight by way of protest so that I will be able to show my constituents that I did try to obtain information for them. I express my disappointment at the treatment I have received from these Ministers. It does not matter whether this Government is concerned with the welfare of primary industry or not, it should have the courtesy to reply to a telegram sent to one of its Ministers. A proper reply should have been given to the question during question time in the House. I am glad that the Minister for Northern Development has come into the chamber. The question I asked him was not complicated. It had 2 sections to it. He completely ignored the first part of the question and concentrated on the second part. That is not good enough when a question is as simple as that. The Ministers, as you have pointed out  Mr Speaker,  can answer questions any way they like. All the redress we have is to express our dissatisfaction with the method of answering questions if, in fact, the answer is not satisfactory. I will add nothing to that for the time being. 
I hope that the Ministers concerned will take some cognisance of what I have said. If I do try to get some information from a Minister he should at least give me the courtesy of a reply. That is very little to ask. 
The other point I want to raise is in connection with the air service at St George. I have received this information from the person who is responsible for the running of that air service. I have mentioned this matter to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  For 24 years, he advises me, the St George district has had available to it a commercially registered light aircraft, based at St George and owned and operated by a local resident holding a commercial pilot's licence. The aircraft has been used for charter and flying training and has been readily available on short notice for urgent ambulance flights, supply dropping in flood time and for stock spotting during floods- all of which are extremely important. It has been necessary to have an aircraft to carry out these activities. This service, generally, has been a very real asset to the area. Yet the cost of these services has been only the normal higher rate as and when used, with no additional money to be raised or paid by the taxpayer to keep the machine on standby. It is a good service. It is one that we regret we may have to lose. 
The operator of the aircraft has now decided that the service has to be discontinued, due solely, in his words, to the extortionate registration charges being made by the Federal Transport Department. Twenty years ago, he says, a similar aircraft to that now being used would have cost about $20 to register. The operator claims that the amount now being demanded is $807. In addition to this, there is a tax on the fuel used of 19.7c a gallon and there is also compulsory passenger insurance of $225 a year. One realises that it is necessary to have passenger insurance. He goes on to say that these charges for registration and passenger insurance are regardless of the hours flown and on utilisation during the past 2 years represent $8.60 per hour flown. The fuel tax adds a further $1.45 an hour. Even without the passenger insurance- we recognise it is necessary- direct Government charges are more than $8 an hour. This is making the position of light aircraft owners in those areas impossible. 
I hope that the Government will give some consideration to the suggestion that where people use aircraft as they are used in these circumstances they should be given some special treatment so that there will be a greater relationship between the charges and the hours flown, particularly, as I have pointed out, when this aircraft serves as an aerial ambulance and performs the other important duties it has been performing. I believe that such an operation should be encouraged. I do not think it should be beyond the capacity of the Minister for Transport- I am sure that it is not, if he puts his mind to it- to devise a method by which these charges can be alleviated. 
The letter goes on to state that the reason given for charging this outrageous amount for registration is that the cost of running the civil aviation section of the Department of Transport must be recovered from aircraft operators. Of course, the operators have no say as to the efficiency or otherwise of the running of the Department; they simply have to pay the costs. So, tonight I make an appeal for consideration for these people who provide a very special service which could not be provided in any way other than by aircraft. The services cannot be provided economically, except by this type of operator. He is just being forced out of the business, as has been described in the letter. I hope that consideration will be given by the Minister and his Department to whether it is possible to give some concessions to operators in those circumstances to enable that very valuable service to be continued. 
I do not want to cover the ground that has been effectively covered by my colleague the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  I want to add some comments and to support some of the points that he has made. The Commission of Inquiry, chaired by  Sir James  Vernon, presented its report in April 1974, some 12 months ago. The Government has accepted the major recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry to establish separate Commissions to conduct the postal and telecommunications sections of the Postmaster-General 's Department. 
I have my reservations about the value of having separate Commissions. I can see some advantages in having them working separately. They will be, as has been pointed out, able to show exactly where money has been spent or what profit has been made by each department. But that is not the essential factor in relation to the provision of services such as are provided by the Postmaster-General's Department at the present time in the postal and telecommunications sections. The essential factor in relation to that is the efficient operation of the Department. At the same time it has to provide a service for the community at large. 
The point that worries me about the Commissions is this: To what extent will they be compelled, or will feel compelled, to look at the economic side rather than the service side of their operations? The Opposition will not oppose the establishment of the Commissions. The decision has been taken by the Government and the responsibility for the operation of the Commissions will rest with the Government. Their operations will be watched with great interest by the Australian people. The acid test of the value of the Commissions will be whether they can provide a satisfactory service to the Australian community, including those deserving people in the sparsely populated areas of Australia where services are being provided at the present time, and indeed where it is reasonably possible to provide them. 
My concern- I repeat this because it is an important factor which I want to stress- is that in an endeavour to get a balanced budget, or close to a balanced budget, the Commissions will reduce those services which are not profitable to them without regard to the contribution made by the less densely populated areas; and without regard to the national prosperity through increases in gross domestic product and the increase in national export earnings which, in themselves, are essential to the welfare and the prosperity of Australia and, through that, to all Australians. 
In the Postmaster-General's Department, as it existed, profitability in the telecommunications section served to offset losses incurred in the postal section. Because of that there was some degree of assistance given to the postal section to enable it to provide services in the postal area that may not have been provided otherwise. The argument is used that people using the telephone should not help to provide these postal services but the point that we should not forget is that a government of this country has the responsibility of seeing that there is a full utilisation of the natural resources of this country. They will not be utilised if the communications throughout the country are not as good as they could be. If we are to sacrifice reasonable communications on the altar of balanced budgets then I say we are doing a disservice to this country. 
I could anticipate a reply from the Minister representing the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  saying: 'Now you want to increase expenditure yet whenever you get up at other times you want to decrease it'. This is the common cry that comes from the Government all the time. But there are essential services which have to be provided. In the case of the telecommunications section, there is a very real responsibility to provide some sort of communications for those people who are disadvantaged by the fact that they live in isolation. Take, for example, a case of a person living some 20 miles from a telephone exchange. What hope has a wife who is living there of getting in touch with anybody in the event of an emergency? I do not think we can cover every case and I am not suggesting that we should. But we should cover every case that it is possible to cover if, in doing so, we are encouraging production and encouraging people to stay in those areas where the great majority of Australians would not be prepared to live. 
Under the Commission system the postal section will stand alone. What I am questioning is what will happen under those circumstances. Will the postal services in rural areas, which are already being reduced, be reduced further or eliminated altogether? There is a constant struggle in the area that I represent to try to maintain the postal services which exist at the present time. Only recently a professional man in my electorate told me that it took 10 days for a letter to travel about 120 miles. A little less than 100 miles of that distance would be on a main traffic route where postal services are quite frequent. The reason for the delay was that the letter missed the mail going out and there was not another mail service for another week. As a result of that the notification that the professional person sent had not arrived at its destination when he arrived there and, having travelled all that way, he had to return and go over the same process again. This is the sort of thing that is happening and the feature that worries me is that it is getting worse instead of better. The question I ask is: Under the Commission, will the situation deteriorate even further? 
I can understand that neither the PostmasterGeneral's Department nor the Opposition have ever been anxious that the Postmaster-General 's Department should have to carry the burden of providing services where they are not considered by that Department to be economic. We submit that there should be a Treasury subvention; the honourable member who led for the Opposition in this debate mentioned that. I ask the Minister Will the Government be prepared to provide funds for the provision of services which, taken in isolation and purely on an economic basis, would not be provided? Will the Government give some consideration to looking at the value of the utilisation of these areas? That is the only way in which these services can be provided; there is no way in which the people can get them for themselves. I ask the Minister: Will the Government give consideration to providing these funds to enable as many of those essential services to be provided as possible? 
In days gone by, the Minister quipped me about the cost of automatic exchanges per head of population. He gave me- I think he called it- the blame, but I call it the credit of being in the forefront of endeavours to get the 15 miles freeline service. I believe that was an essential part of this sort of program because it improved communications. That is what costs the money. People were not asking for these improved communications; they were to the advantage of the Department as well as to the subscribers. The subscribers were given no option about the type of telephone they were to be given, whether they could build their own lines or not. The position was that a person who was at that time living 1 5 miles from an exchange was up against a cost of $5,000 or more to provide a service for himself because the Department insisted upon a certain standard of exchange and of the cables which had to be run out to the subscribers' premises. We, as the Government of that day, thought it was not unreasonable that that high capital cost which helped to upgrade the whole of the telecommunications in this nation, should be provided by the nation and that from then on the Department would get the benefit of the decreased maintenance cost and of a better service generally. 
My worry hinges on this factor. It is a matter of grave concern to me that people are disadvantaged to the extent that they have no professional or medical services available to them except by way of telephone. In most cases they have to pay severely for trunk line charges. I suggest that it is quite probable that both Commissions will not be in operation very long before we will see a substantial increase in charges to try to meet this attempt that the Government seems set on making to see that there is no undue loss incurred by these 2 departments. I believe it is essential that the Government should watch expenditure but it cannot service a nation of the dimensions of Australia, with only 13 million people, and give the services to which they are entitled- a communication service right across the nationwithout incurring some losses. 
In recent times, despite the slump in the cattle market, we have seen claims being made that food production will become a very important factor in the not too distant future. If that is to be so, do we not have some responsibility in this national Parliament to do something to provide encouragement to people to go out and live in country areas and not be isolated completely because of their inability to meet the heavy costs which are attached to the provision of their own telephone services? I do not object to progress being made- I do not want that thrown at me. In fact, I welcome it. But the whole point is that if this progress is to be insisted upon in those areas where people will not have the opportunity which they have had over the years of providing their own telephone lines and, if you like, looking after those lines, I believe some compensation should be paid to them. 
I do not think it is a fair thing that the Commission should have to be responsible in its balance sheet for that compensation. I do not think it was a fair thing that the Postmaster-General's Department, in its day, had to be responsible for it. I think these lines of communications should be considered in the national interest and, in those cases where it can be reasonably shown, I think the provision of essential services in outlying areas should be shown on the balance sheet as a cost to the community. Unless we do that, I believe we will have a job to stand up to questioning on the grounds of our utilisation of this country, living as we do in an area which is surrounded by countries of very dense population. I ask the Minister and the Government whether they think it is reasonable to expect people to stay in isolated areas if they are not given whatever amenities can be provided, even if they are provided at some cost to the Australian community. It does not always work put that city people are subsidising the country areas. If I were to digress for a moment, I could say that the metropolitan railways- I know this is so in Queensland- have been subsidised by the railways that run into outlying areas. But because of the advantage of reasonably cheap fares and the competition of other forms of transport the people of the cities were well provided for. This went on for quite a long time. I am not complaining about it. 
I believe that we should look broadly at this whole question of communications. I believe that we should look at it nationally. I hope that both of the commissions will be given the opportunity to put a case to the Government for financial assistance which will enable them not only to provide services efficiently and economically in those areas where they can be provided economically but also to be given the opportunity to put a case to the Government for finance to be used mainly in the national interest. Unless we are prepared to allow that and unless the commissions are given this opportunity I say that the commissions will be a failure from a national point of view. 
The whole point is that we should be prepared to look at these great national measures from a national point of view. We have to encourage people to stay in the outlying areas. It is an essential part of the Australian tradition and it is an essential part of our contribution as a nation to the benefit of the world community that we do just that. The cost is not all that great compared with the cost of some of the Government 's activities. I will not elaborate on them because there is no need. I think I have made the points I wanted to make pretty clearly. The cost of the services I have mentioned are not so very great compared to the costs undertaken in this field. It is all very well for Government supporters to point out what an individual exchange might have cost per head of population. As I said, and I repeat it, the exchange was established in a certain place because the Department wanted it to be put there. 
I have been very disappointed also with regard to some of the telecommunications staff accommodation, particularly in Roma. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to 2 members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association,  Mr McLeod  and  Mr Fowler. Mr McLeod  is the Association's industrial officer and  Mr Fowler  is the State secretary of the Association. Those 2 gentlemen waited for some hours to enable me to have a discussion with them with regard to the unsatisfactory telecommunications accommodation in Roma. They have been endeavouring in a very patient way- I pay full credit to them- to try to have these conditions improved for the officers of their organisation. We are sometimes accused of having no thought except for country people. We are sarcastically called possum corner' or something like that. It gives me special pleasure to be able to pay the tribute that I think is due to the officials of that organisation, to their patience and the effective presentation of their case. 
In fairness I also say that the PostmasterGeneral's Department in Brisbane has been endeavouring to lease accommodation in the 
Roma area and so improve the accommodation for its staff in that area. I am pleased to be able to make these points so that it cannot be said that we are always speaking of things with which we are dissatisfied. I am pleased that the report which came out recently stated how the telecommunications and postal districts will be changed around but that the Roma district will be retained in more or less its present form. It is the only really inland district concerned in Queensland and I am pleased that the loss in staff is not expected to be very great. So I have some satisfaction and hope that the employment position will not be changed in that area. 
I conclude simply by saying that if in fact we are to have an efficient and effective Postal Commission and Telecommunications Commission let their economic operations be confined to those areas where it is reasonable to provide a balanced budget, but do not ever forget that there is a service responsibility on the nation and that that service responsibility has to come through these commissions if we are to get the type of communication service that the people of Australia are justly entitled to receive. 
-The attempt by the Government to force these Bills through without adequate debate is something that it will live to rue and regret. I hope that this page will be incorporated in the Australian Labor Party's platform and remain there as a reminder to a probably more efficient and better Labor Party later on of what has happened in the past. Despite the criticism that is made of the previous redistributions, they were made by people appointed in the same way as the people who made this redistribution were appointed. So every time some Government supporter refers to it as a gerrymander he is criticising the integrity of those people. Let us remember that those redistributions were made under the terms and conditions which have stood the test of time since Federation, until the Labor Party came into power and decided to alter the conditions and the criteria so that it could achieve, from anyone who felt that he could comply with the conditions, a redistribution which would be helpful to the Australian Labor Party. The alteration of the criteria was made with the idea of trying to prevent what is fair and reasonable and what is recognised as fair and reasonable in many countriesthat is, some consideration for area, for sparsity or density of population and for means of communication. 
The Australian Labor Party is the Party whose Leader has constantly claimed that he wanted to have a contemporary Senate. That contemporary Senate exists now. I am prepared to let that contemporary Senate register its opinion and its vote on whether these redistributions are fair and reasonable. That is what the Government wanted. That is what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asked for all the time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I ask the Minister whether he agrees with the following statement by the Special Minister of State: 
The real problem for local government in many areas is that it is not efficient. It is parochial. It is more interested in frittering away its rather small funds. It does not have an adequate work force to carry out major works. 
I listened with some interest to the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and to some of the wise observations that he made. I use the word 'wise' with a deal of sarcasm. He said that the important aspects of this Budget are not to be found in the figures. I have always thought that the figures are a very important part of a Budget. If the important parts of the Budget are not in the figures, apparently the figures are not very satisfactory. So I would accept the fact that the figures in this Budget are detrimental to the people as a whole. 
The honourable member also mentioned- I must compliment him on his honesty in saying this- that people are scared and worried about putting their money into savings. I believe that they have very good reason to be scared and worried while this Government remains in office. There is one thing, of course, that the honourable member can be assured of, that is, whatever the benefits an Opposition may have with regard to criticising governments, if he is fortunate enough to be returned for the electorate of Prospect at the next election- I very much doubt that that will happen- he will certainly have the opportunity to sit in Opposition and do the things he is critising us for doing tonight. 
The Budget of 1975, as introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  can be very fairly described as a deceptive Budget. It certainly is a deceptive Budget. This point has already been made. The deception started prior to the introduction of the Budget. It started as a matter of Government policy when the Government, through the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission, brought down new charges prior to the introduction of the Budget. Those savage increases in postal and telephone charges by the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission having been announced prior to the introduction of the Budget, the Government no doubt hoped, but vainly hoped, that the Budget might be considered separately from those increases. This was a good tactic for the Government to use. But it will not be lost on the Australian people that the cost to the community as a whole will be the cost of the Budget as it stands plus the savagely increased charges introduced by the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission. The Australian people are not so simple as to believe that a charge made by a Government instrumentality will not affect their pockets or their net incomes, simply because that charge has been divorced from the Budget. 
The Treasurer has introduced a very disappointing Budget. In the build-up to the Budget we were led to believe that the Treasurer would present a responsible Budget and that the Government at last had realised that its reckless economic POliCY was ruining the economy of this country and that at last the Labor Government had decided, at whatever cost it might be to them politically, to introduce a responsible Budget. How far short of that ideal has this Budget fallen! It is indeed a very disappointing Budget for those who have looked to a restructuring and a recovery of the economy of this country to the benefit of everybody who lives within its boundaries. In fact, we have constantly seen reversals of pOliCy on the part of this Government. This Government, in the words of its own Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has turned so many corners that it must be nearly giddy. It has promised so many upturns which have proved to be downturns that people no longer attach any credibility to its promises. 
This Budget has been described by some people as a holding Budget. Having retreated from the position of its being a Budget of responsibility. some areas sympathetic to the Government now regard it as a type of holding Budget. In some respects that might be true. It certainly Will more than hold the level of unemployment which will certainly increase as the effect of this Budget is felt throughout the economy. It Will certainly hold the rate of inflation, which also will increase as funds have to be injected into the economy, as was the case last year, to make up for the increasing level of deficit. That the projected deficit will not be held has already been clearly indicated by the fact that there was a deficit of some $700m for the month of July- 
-As my friend from Gwydir has said, it is a fake. The Government has tried to introduce a Budget which would convey to the Australian public that it was characterised by some degree of responsibility. But there is no chance of the Government being able to hold the deficit that it has provided for in this Budget. The Budget is deceptive to that extent. 
One of the incredible features of the Budget is the apparent disregarding of increasing unemployment. It is of no use for members on the Government side to say that members on this side of the chamber always speak about unemployment. Why should we not speak about unemployment? We are concerned for the people of this country if the Government is not. That is why we are speaking about unemployment. We are concerned about the degree of unemployment that exists. I would say that there has been no government of any political persuasion in the history of Commonwealth government in this country that has ever so callously disregarded the effect of budgetary measures on the employment of the Australian work force. It may sound as though I am drawing a long bow, but I believe events will prove what I have said to be correct. 
This Government seems to be unconcerned that unemployment could rise to the unprecedented level of half a million people in this financial year. The only answer we get from the Government is that people on this side of the Parliament talk about unemployment. We are justified in talking about unemployment. We would be failing in our duty if we did not talk about it. We on this side of the House are concerned about the people. 
-The honourable member for Sydney says: 'My word'. He is impressed with what I have said because he is one who has suffered in other ways from the irresponsibility of this Government. What will be the effect on the morale of people who are suffering from the problems of unemployment? One of the great tragedies of unemployment is the effect which it has on people who want to work but who are unable to work because of the policies of this Government. 
-That will happen because of the justice that will be meted out to you as a result of your own misdeeds in government. I believe that the people who have so mismanaged the Australian economy over recent years will receive the justice they deserve. 
This is of secondary importance as far as the Opposition is concerned, but if the level of unemployment does increase by some 150,000 over the present figure- it certainly looks as though it will, and the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has suggested that it could- what will the increase mean to the Budget? First of all it will mean a reduction in the income tax revenue of the amount the Government would have received from these people who were previously gainfully employed. In addition, it will mean that the cost to the Australian people of providing unemployment benefits for these people who are thrown out of work as a result of the policies of this Government - 
Debate interrupted. 
-I shall now continue my address on the Budget. With the generosity that characterises members of my party, the National Country Party of Australia, and which characterises members of the Opposition generally, I looked for some aspect of the Budget that could be commented upon favourably. I believe that the kindest thing that can be said about the Budget is that there appeared to be some acceptance and recognition by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  of the fact that under the economic policies of this Government over the previous 12 months the economy of Australia was heading for disaster. While the Treasurer may have had the desire to slow down the rate of inflation, the Budget as presented certainly will not achieve that end. The difficulties which confronted the Treasurer in compiling this Budget are very largely the result of the reckless incompetence of this Government over the past  21/2  years. I believe that Australians should ask themselves what benefits are in the Budget for them as individuals and also for the nation. 
On the face of it, it would appear that there is a slight reduction in personal taxation, but that apparent reduction is largely brought about by the reduction in the over-payment of taxation as previously applied. In fact, this was admitted by the Treasurer himself. When one looks at the net result of pay-as-you-earn taxation, it is fairly obvious that there is no overall benefit for the people of Australia. Let me cite the figures in regard to that system of taxation for the last 2 years. In 1974-75 the pay-as-you-earn taxation receipts amounted to some $6,000m. It is estimated in this Budget that the amount collected will reach $8,683m. I think that that really puts the position on the line in regard to the benefits that are promoted as being of advantage to the taxpayers of this country. The so-called benefits will be offset in many ways. In fact, they will be more than offset. The rate of inflation which will continue and probably increase resulting in increased cost of living will in itself more than eat up these illusory benefits to say nothing of the increased home rentals, transport charges, postal and telephone charges, fuel prices, and so on. I could go on naming items on the list. 
I wish to emphasise that increases in fuel charges will hit almost everyone but will be particularly severe on those people living in the outlying areas of the Commonwealth, areas such as western Queensland that I have the privilege to represent. The people in these areas will be hit by the increased cost of transport of goods both in and out of their areas. This will add further to the discouragement of production in those parts of Australia. No nation can raise its standard of living above the increase in productivity without incurring the balancing factor of inflation. This Government has made no attempt to relate this simple basic economic truth to this Budget. It has been pathetically incapable of maintaining industrial harmony, which was one of its election promises. It has been dominated by the left wing trade unions and has been as putty in their hands. As a result, costs to the Australian people have escalated because of production lost through prolonged industrial disputes. 
I now wish to refer to the estimates for education. The Government seems to be very proud of this area. Total outlays are estimated to increase by some 14.2 per cent. That in itself I welcome because I believe that we should expand the educational opportunities available to the members of the community. But when this is viewed against an inflation rate which is a good deal greater than that increase in outlays it is obvious that also education will suffer under this Budget. The most tragic part of the education section of the Budget is that assistance to isolated children has been reduced while every one of the other special group allocations has been increased. There is no excuse for this. I believe that isolated children rank as perhaps the most under-privileged section of the Australian community. Their needs have been placed before this Government constantly by the Isolated Children's Parents Association. As recently as 16 August last a deputation from this Association met the  President  of the Senate when he visited Cunnamulla in my electorate. Members of the deputation pointed out to him that the increases in allowances for the education of isolated children have not kept pace with inflation. 
These people, in common with the rest of the community living in remote areas, are being seriously disadvantaged by the reduction or elimination of postal services and by the Budget generally. Already the collection of mail services can result in round trips of 40 miles or more. These distances will increase as the mail services are reduced or eliminated under the policies of this Government. Therefore, the cost of these mail services to the recipient is substantial and is increasing as fuel costs rise, in addition to the greater distances to be travelled. More and more mail services are being discontinued, shortened or reduced in frequency, thus adding to the burden of providing satisfactory education to outback children. Surely a reasonable education is the birthright of every Australian child. Where the difficulties of providing that birthright are greatest for the parent, surely then the Government should be most sympathetic to them rather than reduce the allocation to them as in this Budget. 
I now turn to the plight of small businesses. The non-metropolitan population comprises largely primary producers, small businessmen and the employees of both categories, plus the families of all these people. They are interdependent to a much closer degree than the residents of cities. That is accepted. The utilisation of our natural resources in rural areas is dependent upon the teamwork of businessmen and primary producers. Small businesses are vital to our national economy and especially to the private enterprise section of that economy which provides some 75 per cent of the employment opportunities in Australia. The cost to the Australian taxpayer as a result of the closure of small businesses, brought about to a large extent by the policies of this Government, is not generally realised. For example, it has been estimated that if a small business employing even 8 or 9 people ceased operation it could cost the taxpayers up to $50,000. Small businessmen's families contribute to the populations of country towns and population is vital to those towns. This is because the degree of population in turn justifies the educational, medical and professional services that are provided. Those services are usually provided in relation to the population served. Small businessmen are being forced out of business because of rising costs brought about as a result of the policies of this Government and the Budget adds further to the burdens of this deserving section of the community. 
In the short time that I have left in which to speak I wish to refer to the rural industry that has been shamefully treated by this Government. The beef industry in particular has been brought to its knees. Beef producers are already having to destroy cattle because it is uneconomic to send them to market. Yet this callous, unsympathetic Government still imposes its export tax on meat. This apology for a government still extracts its pound of flesh from the hard pressed beef producer. The Government made a decision to reduce the guaranteed price for wool from 250c per lb to 200c per lb. Its subsequent change back to 250c per lb is consistent with its stop-go policies in every field. Although the Government did revert under some pressure to a guaranteed price of 250c per lb, it did so only after serious damage had been done to the wool industry through the destruction of confidence in the undertakings of the Government. 
The preservation of the security of Australia as a free and democratic nation and the welfare of the Australian people, promoted through a sound economic policy with justice to all sections, are the paramount responsibilities of this national Parliament. The Budget that has been brought down by this Government does not do anything towards providing that real and necessary objective in the interests of the nation and in the interests of the Australian people. These vital objectives are not being promoted effectively by this Government. They can best be achieved under the policies laid down by the Opposition and by the budgetary measures outlined in this debate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that some 3000 businesses have ceased operation in Australia this year? Is he further aware that the main reason for this disaster to the Australian economy is the Government's unsympathetic and, indeed, hostile policy towards successful business operation, especially small businesses? What action does the Government intend to take to prevent the imminent collapse of many more business enterprises which will occur if industrial disputes continue at the present level and if the Government does not take more effective action to bring inflation under control? 
-First, I register my protest at the short amount of time provided to the House in which to debate these Bills which deal with a very important industry. An hour has been provided. The leading speaker for the Opposition is entitled to 30 minutes and subsequent speakers may take 20 minutes each, if they care to exercise their right to speak for that period. The time allowed for this debate is quite inadequate. I was a bit disappointed- I do not know the reason for it- that no speaker from the Government side was listed. 
-The honourable member for Wilmot says that he is standing down to allow me to speak. At the same time, he should have ensured that the Government allowed sufficient time to permit other honourable members and himself to speak in this debate. In the few minutes available to me, may I say that the Opposition has given a great deal of consideration to these Bills. My colleagues who have spoken and other members of the Opposition parties have met together on a number of occasions to try to work out something that would be of benefit to the industry and in which all States could join with the object of establishing a worthwhile Apple and Pear Corporation to operate in the interests of the industry. There is no doubt that growers in Queensland have been and are still very concerned about the problems that confront them. Fortunately, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, on behalf of the Opposition covered most of the ground that I would have covered. I will have to limit my remarks to allow the Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson)  to have a minute or two in which to say a few words. Queensland apple growers in particular were so concerned- this was mentioned before but I wish to repeat itthat they obtained legal advice as to whether they could opt out of the Corporation. They are still unhappy but, when a final analysis is taken, it may be that they will be able to join in as they are anxious to do. That point was made by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  in his speech. 
I completely reject the charge of inefficiency made by some people against Queensland growers because their acreage production is lower than is production in some other States. Queensland growers are fully utilising the present potential of their areas and, quite naturally enough, are willing and indeed eager to adopt measures which are suitable to their locality and which would improve acreage production, if it can be done on an economic basis. 
It is indeed a matter of very great concern that I must restrict my remarks so that these Bills may be passed this evening. I have said that I will do this, but I do so very reluctantly indeed. These Bills have not been debated to the extent that they should have been debated. Let me refer to the fact that my colleagues, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  both of whom were listed to speak in this debate have not been given the opportunity, because of the time factor, to take part in it. If we had not agreed to this procedure, debate on the Bills would have been cut off. We have tried to do the best that we could in the time available to us. This sort of behaviour is indicative of the attitude of the Government to primary industry as a whole. It is no wonder that Labor members representing primary industry areas were not anxious to be heard. I am sure that they would not have had much to say to the credit of their Government in relation to its total attitude towards primary industry. Now I will allow the Minister for Northern Australia a minute or two to reply to the second reading debate. I assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that it is with great reluctance that I resume my seat now. 
-We have just heard a treatise about local government from the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  who has just resumed his seat. Local government is in a serious position at the moment largely because of the policies of this Government. Some 3000 businesses have gone out of operation this year and no twittering on the other side of the chamber will prevent those facts from being known to the Australian people. While we have that sort of policy operating it is no wonder that people are not able to pay their rates. The Government's unsympathetic attitude towards rural industry has prevented many local government bodies in rural areas from being able to collect the rates they should have been able to collect. The Government has given no sympathy at all to these industries, particularly the cattle industry that has suffered such a great deal. Government supporters have talked and talked and talked. Like some honourable members here, they cannot stop talking. They would talk under wet cement, but they say nothing while they are talking. They just keep their mouths opening and shutting and their utterances are just a lot of nonsense. 

 -Mr Chairman, if this honourable member keeps interjecting it will be hard for me to make a speech. I do not mind what he is saying, but it is time he took control of himself. 
It was very interesting to hear in the debate earlier the high commendation of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  Apparently the right honourable member considers that the Queensland redistribution at least is an unreasonable one because he did not vote for it. Furthermore, it is not reasonable to believe that community of interest or reasonable representation can be obtained in an electorate which runs from Mount Isa to Texas. Therefore the Opposition has every justification for not accepting the proposed boundaries. I am not suggesting that there is anything wrong with the Distribution Commissioners; anyone can make a mistake and certainly they have made a very bad one here. In the earlier discussions on a previous redistribution the  Chairman  of the Distribution Commissioners criticised the bringing of the electorate of Kennedy within 150 miles of Brisbane. It is now proposed to combine the electorates of Maranoa and Kennedy and to bring them even closer than that. So according to the evidence given by the  Chairman  of the Distribution Commissioners, a mistake was made there. I feel that because that mistake has been made the Opposition has a very good reason for rejecting the proposed boundaries in Queensland. The right honourable member for Higgins apparently recognised the mistakes that were made in Queensland. 
I want to repeat something that has been said because it is worth repeating. In the United Kingdom, where the distribution of population is much more regular than it is in this country, the Labor Government there recognised that it is reasonable to have a variation in the size of electorates to allow for density and sparsity of population. But of course this Labor Government here is concerned only with its own survival. It feels that it has something to gain. It has tied the hands of the Distribution Commissioners. If it were not for that, I am sure that the Distribution Commissioners would have done a much better job in Queensland than was done on this occasion. So I believe that we have every justification for opposing these boundaries. It is the duty of a parliament, however much it might agree with the integrity of a distribution commissioner, if it feels a mistake has been made, to send the proposal back to the Distribution Commissioners so that they can rectify the errors. The essence of democracy is that the representatives of the people have a voice in these matters. If that is not to be the case, there is no point in bringing them before the Parliament. 
-=-My comments this afternoon will relate to communications in Australia. I am encouraged in making them by having received the Australian Telecommunications Development Association publication  Telecommunications 1975.  One of the articles in the publication refers to communications for Indonesia. I want to quote from that article. One passage states: 
Australia's contribution to the continuing development of Indonesia's telecommunications network is manifold and undertaken at both governmental and company level. 
I welcome this assistance to Indonesia by the Australian Government and by the Australian companies. The point that impresses me is the great progress made in Indonesia in the field of communications. I believe that the development of our communications in Australia has failed very badly by comparison. We should remember that Indonesia is a new and emerging country. Certainly some of the progress being made in that country is as a result of well deserved assistance given under the Colombo Plan and perhaps through other agencies as well. 
Indonesia now has decided to adopt a domestic satellite system to improve its internal communications. The system will not be cheap. It is planned for completion by the end of 1977 and will cost close to A$525m. That certainly is a very substantial sum of money. However it does highlight something. I expect that I will get some of the usual parrot cries about what the Opposition parties did during the time they were in government, but that is no answer. Time is passing and we do not have the satellite communications that a country like Australia needs, just as much as does a country like Indonesia. I hope my comments will encourage the Australian authorities and the Liberal and National Country Parties when we get back into office- I hope that will not be unduly delayed- to go on with the progress and development of our communications through satellites for the Australian communities. 
The deterioration- that is the only word for it- of communications in outlying areas in Australia is increasing. Mail services in many areas out there are back to or even behind the level of the horse and buggy days. This can best be overcome by the introduction of a satellite communications system. Australia is a place that should have that sort of system. It is true that a comparatively small number of people in comparison with the total population is not receiving the best type of communication but those people are serving a very great national need. I want to emphasise that we have a national responsibility to utilise all the assets and resources of this country. We owe a very deep debt of gratitude to the people who are prepared to live in the outlying areas without the benefit of the medical and educational advantages available to so many Australians. It is because of this fact that I emphasise the need for satellite communication in addition to the advantage that the introduction of a modern method of communication will give to communications generally throughout Australia. 
Looking about the chamber I expect that I will hear some rap about the possible cost of it. The longer we go on this way the longer we will have to go. If we look at the wealth and capacity of Indonesia and compare it with Australia we must realise that if the Indonesians can face up to this sort of thing it is up to all of us to look very closely at the promotion of this type of communication. This facility is expected to be very advantageous for the progress and development of Indonesia. I am not going to suggest that it is even more important to Indonesia than it is to Australia because Indonesia takes in such a large archipelago, but it is very important to Australia. 
As one of the very few members of this parliament who represent the outlying areas I hope that some consideration will be given to the plea I make. I hope that the patties within this parliament will take note of this factor. I commend the principle of helping the underprivileged people in all parts of the world- it is a high ideal to which I subscribe in full- but if there is one section of the Australian community which is more underprivileged than another in my opinion it is made up of the people who live in the outlying areas of this Commonwealth. Those people are comparatively few in number and do not have a great voting capacity and therefore the political influence that other people in this country have. Their claims are neglected far too often or are pushed to one side. I find that people say to me that whenever these sorts of claims are put up they are agreed to and accepted, but nothing or very little is done about them. 
I want to emphasise that people in some areas like my electorate do not have even reasonable radio communication, let alone anything else. I received a letter from a shire council in one of those areas and in it the council said that I need not be in a hurry to reply because it had no idea when it would get my letter. That letter was written by the clerk of a shire council and surely it emphasises the need for better communications in those areas. In any way that we look at the problems of these people we will find that they are being disadvantaged more and more. They were disadvantaged in the recent Electoral Act in which the conditions for postal voting were tightened. More people in those areas will be disfranchised if the mail is delayed. A vote should be available to people in every area and in every electorate, not just to those who live on the Australian seaboard or within areas where there are good communications. That legislation was introduced so that the results of elections could be known a few days earlier than they might otherwise be known. Is it fair that people in outlying areas should be disfranchised as a result of a hold-up in mail services? I say it is not. 
I want to refer again to the subject on which I commenced my remarks, namely the provision of a satellite communication plan to assist people in country areas. I wanted to ask a question about this matter this morning. However it appears that because I have already asked one question this session I was not given the call. This is another example of the way in which representatives of people who live in country areas are handicapped to some extent. There is no end to the problems that confront people in country areas and which we are trying to bring to the notice of the country and the community at large. 
The deletion or the discontinuance of the equalisation plan for petrol hits people in country areas harder than anyone else because of the distance at which they live from centres of supply. People in country areas are faced with increased costs in transporting their children to secondary schools in order to get an education, and again if there is any sort of serious illness in their families. Surely these problems should be well understood by the community. I hope that consideration will be given to the plight of people living in these areas. How often in this chamber have I been criticised because I represent fewer people than do members from city electorates? How often has it been very sarcastically said that I represent trees and haystacks? I do not draw the boundaries. I would be quite happy to have more people in my electorate if the boundaries were altered. What I do say is that electorates should be small enough to allow members to perform their duties as efficiently as possible. But what happened in the last redistribution was that the most sparsely settled areas where incorporated in one big electorate. That is the sort of approach that the Government adopted; that is the disregard that the Government has for country people. 
Unfortunately the Government's pious sort of outlook towards country people spreads far through the community. I appeal very strongly to the Postmaster-General and the Government to get on with the job while they have time to do something because they might not be here much longer. They should start something now so that they can at least have the credit of saying that they initiated progress towards a more realistic approach to communication. Consideration of the satellite proposition has been going on for too long now. 
I listened with interest to the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  and, strange as it may seem, I agree with him on some aspects. But his speech deteriorated as he went along and some of his comments towards the end were very illogical. I thought it was a good thing for the Government that he had only 10 minutes to speak. The reason I have said that is that the honourable member for La Trobe said that the previous Government took 23 years to do very little in the way of consumer protection. 
-The advice of the honourable member for Prospect would not be worth anything either, so he can keep it to himself. He will be considered wiser if he does. 
The important point with respect to the period of 23 years in which the previous Government was in office is that the consumer was protected constantly by the stability of the Australian economy which guaranteed the consumer a constant price. The consumer could purchase goods with any savings that he made without the effects of the tragedy of the rate of inflation which currently is eroding the value of savings of people in our community and affecting more adversely those with less worldly goods than others. The effects of inflation fall more heavily on the lower income class than on other classes. 
Another of the comments by the honourable member for La Trobe of which I make some criticism is his claim that the Opposition apparently supported the profit motive at all costs. My reply to the honourable member is that the Government seems to have adopted a policy of no profit for private industry at any cost. But this has been at the cost of unemployment and inflation. That is the very decided difference between the policy of the Government and the policy of the Opposition. 
-As my friend from Lyne says, it is at the cost of the destruction of the economy. He is quite right. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department I first of all draw attention to the great disadvantage that people suffer in those areas where services are not as frequent as they ought to be. Because of that I feel that the Postal Commission should be given the opportunity to provide a service. I think it is entirely wrong that the Postal Commission should be required to find its own working expenses and at the same time find 50 per cent of its capital. The conditions under which the Postal Commission works under this Government are such that it is not able to do anything other than to impose excessive charges. The responsibility does not rest on the operation of the Commission, although it has been criticised, and rightly so, because of its top heaviness and the number of top positions that have been created. The Commission is not given an opportunity by this Government to operate in a manner which will allow it to provide the national service that the Postal Commission should provide. 
The important point relates to the provision of a service while the economy is being watched. These services are justified from a national point of view. If we are to have what is required in this and in the other countries- a national network of services- in fairness to the Commission and in fairness to the old Postmaster-General's Department there should have been a Treasury subvention to allow the department to provide those services which in themselves are uneconomic but which are desirable and necessary from a national and a developmental point of view. The trouble that this country is running into has been accentuated by the incompetence of the Government insofar as the economy generally is concerned. 
The people about whom I have talked live in areas where there is a need for Australia as a nation to exploit the natural resources. The people living in those areas are among the most underprivileged in the nation. They will be even more underprivileged if in fact these services are curtailed because of the conditions under which the Postal Commission or the Telecommunications Commission operate. Because of the reduction in and the elimination of postal services the people will be deprived of their franchise- they will not be able to vote. This situation has arisen because of the economic conditions under which the Postal Commission operates. I hope that members in this Parliament who represent country areas will take up the cudgels on behalf of country people. I regret to say that this does not always happen. The Government is protected by people who represent the type of people I represent in the far western areas of my electorate. Australians generally should feel deeply indebted to those people who are prepared to live where the cost of living is highest and where the services provided by the Government are the very lowest. The people are there doing a national job. If some Australians are not prepared to live in those areas, other people might be looking with envious eyes to be given the opportunity to do so. Those people perhaps would find an excuse, based on international attitudes, to do so. This is something of which the national Parliament should take cognisance. 
I say that at least the services that were provided back in the horse and buggy days should be continued. In some instances they are not being continued; they are being cut out by this type of operation. The Government is trying to provide an economic service in an area where one cannot be provided and it is trying to provide a national network of communication. It is trying to achieve the impossible and in the meantime is burdening the whole of the Australian community in an unreasonable manner. As I said before there have been drastic reductions in postal services. Even if there were no other changes the drastic reduction of polling places and the threatened further reduction of others will alter the franchise situation. I hope the Government will look at this matter in relation to the postal services that are being provided. Is the Government intending to disfranchise these people by reducing the allowable time for the receipt of postal votes, and by the reduction and discontinuance of postal services? 
It is not only in those areas that mail services are being reduced. I am inundated with requests to try to have services retained in almost every area. There is great difficulty in retaining services. They have been shortened and reduced in frequency. Every effort has been made. I pay tribute to the District Postal Manager in my electorate for his efforts in constantly travelling throughout that area in an endeavour to maintain these services. The Government intends cutting out the Roma postal district. The District Postal Manager has done his very best within the limits prescribed. These mail services are being curtailed and reduced even in more closely settled areas. 
I also raise the matter of radio reception. Surely in these days everyone is entitled to decent radio reception at the very least but it is not being provided in many of the western areas. Provision of adequate radio reception has become stagnant. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is at the table is quite competent to take me to task as he has done, very unjustly I would say, on many occasions. He will probably say that we did not do anything for 23 years. The parrot cry of the Government is: What did you do? Why did you not do something when you were in power? The Government apparently thinks that although things were continued at a certain level they must stop there because we did not do more in those 23 years. We did not do everything in those 23 years that the Government should have been doing in the last 3 years that it has been in office. The Government has been stagnant in providing services to many areas of Australia. 
The same thing applies to telecommunications. The same Minister criticised me for a speech that I made in this House for being, as he put it, instrumental in having a telephone service provided for some very deserving people. He appeared almost staggered at the cost and he seemed to blame me for it. The fact is that the Department required a certain standard of communication; it was not me; it was not even my own party. It was the Department. My party accepted the need for a high standard of communication. If there are to be effective subscriber trunk dialling services there must be high standards. It was not the Government that desired this high standard. The Minister says that country people must not be given the services because they cost too much. Apparently we should all live in the coastal areas and neglect the inland. Apparently we should not provide those people with services. The Government says that anybody who gets any sort of service from this Government should pay for its total cost. 
Is that the sort of philosophy that will develop this nation? Is that the sort of philosophy that will make the nation great? Is that the sort of philosophy that will allow us to utilise resources throughout this great Commonwealth of ours?. It is a short sighted policy. It is a policy which is completely reprehensible. That word describes the policy very well and I hope that some notice will be taken of its reprehensibility. When we were in office we recognised the great problems confronting people with regard to telephonic communications. We were prepared to allow them up to 15 miles of free line. That service is going to cost them more than $5,000 now. The Minister has said that we must not provide that service because it is too costly and we must provide more telephones in the cities, where people do not have a need for them, for the same amount of money. No consideration is given to the national need. No consideration is given to the circumstances surrounding the conditions of those people. It does not matter whether there is a snake bite, a bushfire or an accident; as far as this Government is concerned those people will suffer. It is no wonder that the Government is losing the support of the people in those areas and it is no wonder that it is losing support for many other reasons, throughout this nation. 
I hope that the Minister and the Government will look at the criteria under which the Commissions operate to enable them to provide a service for the community at large, even at some cost. The work that is being done in many areas throughout the Commonwealth is such that the community at large should be prepared at least to contribute something to help the people who live in such circumstances which are conditions under which many people in this country, in fact the majority of people, I believe, would not be prepared to live. Let us try to keep them there and have a reasonable balance. They do not want everything. They just want reasonable treatment and they are not getting it from this Government. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is the curtailment of the adjournment debate a retaliation against the Opposition for its legitimate use of the forms of the House, including the calling of quorums, which the Government itself used when in Opposition? Does this action and the Prime Minister's refusal to answer questions wipe away the last vestige of open government promised by the Prime Minister in his election campaign? Does the Prime Minister realise that the promise of open government was one of the main reasons why this Government was mistakenly elected to office by the Australian people- a mistake that they are anxiously waiting to rectify? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I second the motion. In doing so, I express my belief that this is an extremely important motion. I draw attention to the fact that notice was given of this motion on 9 July 1974. However relevant and important it was then, the intervening period has made even more important the discussion of this matter and the need for the attention of the Government to be drawn to the grave importance of it. The attention of the Government should be directed also to its lack of action in endeavouring to do what this motion suggests, that is, that the Government should take urgent action to ensure that those people who are dependent on superannuation and welfare payments are not adversely prejudiced by the economic mismanagement of this Government. 
This economic mismanagement has grown in degree during the whole period that this Government has been in office. It is of vital concern to those people in the categories mentioned in the motion, and their position is growing worse. It is of critical importance to ensure that their standards of living, which are already eroded, are not reduced to even lower levels. The Government has not shown any capacity for nor indeed much concern about trying to prevent the results envisaged by the honourable member for Griffith in this motion. 
The first requirement in relation to this matter is that the Government should make an honest and sincere attempt to control and reduce inflation. It is all very well to say that inflation is a world wide problem. That is no excuse at all. As the honourable member for Griffith pointed out, that does not excuse the Government from taking no action. Whatever the difficulties may be in relation to inflation, if there is one country that should be able to set an example in being able to control inflation it should be Australia. This Government hides behind the fact that inflation exists in other countries. In a period of 23 years in office, a period which honourable members opposite are so happy to refer to, the LiberalCountry Party governments achieved a great record even though there was inflation, although not to the same extent as in other countries. Our record was to the great benefit of the people in the categories mentioned in the motion- people on pensions and on superannuation. There is no doubt about that. I draw the attention of the Government to the point that people on superannuation paid their contributions over a period of time with money that had real value. I might call that 'National Country Party government stabilised economy money'. That is the money they used- money that had real purchasing power. They are now being paid money, although in a greater number of dollars to some extent, which has lost so much of its valuemoney that might be called ' Labor Government diminishing value money'. I draw that comparison. 
This Government should take action to restrict the effects of inflation on people on low incomes, people on superannuation and people receiving welfare payments. Will the Government admit that it is time that it did something worth while in this direction? If it is sincere, if it is to make the effort that is required of it, it must get back to sound economic management which is the real answer to this problem. This would allow the increases that are given to maintain value. People receiving welfare payments are in many instances in an even worse position than those on superannuation. We know that the amounts paid in welfare benefits have increased but it is what those dollars buy that really counts. It is the purchasing power of the money that these people receive that really counts. So it is not a matter of just gradually increasing the actual money value of these payments that are being made to people receiving welfare benefits and superannuation payments. 
The honourable member for Griffith quite rightly referred to the first main report on poverty in Australia by Professor Henderson. I will quote from it too because I believe that even Government supporters would hardly have the temerity to suggest that this is some concoction of or scheming by Opposition supporters. On page 9 of the report it says: 
From 1945 to 1973 government policies of maintenance of effective demand through fiscal and monetary policy prevented the recurrence of large-scale unemployment, and Australia was particularly successful in this respect. 
Large scale unemployment brings about the need for welfare payments to be made. It is directly related to the number of people who are forced into receiving welfare payments. When these people erode their savings, when they use them up, they simply have to go on to welfare benefits. It is important that this be remembered by the Government. There has been an example of how the economy should be managed and ', that example was set over that famous period of 23 years which Government supporters are so fond of citing. The report continues: 
 In 1974-75.it seems that inflation created poverty through unemployment. 
That repeats what I have just said. 
But rapid inflation has also contributed to poverty even more surely in many other ways. There is very clear evidence from countries such as Brazil, which have suffered a high rate of inflation for many years - 
We accept that-  that' the great majority of poor people have made no progress and many have become worse off. 
That is the point we are making here; that is the point that the Government is missing. All it is worrying about is trying to placate the left wing union leaders and the people it thinks might help it to preserve it in office, but it will find that so many of those people are so disillusioned with the Government that it will have lost even their support. The report goes on to say: 
This has happened although the national income has been rising rapidly. In other South American countries with similar .rapid rates of inflation, but with less national resources and a lower rate of increase in national income, poor people have fared even worse. 
It is clear that this problem hits home. I give credit to. the honourable member for Griffith for drawing attention in this motion to this position, and I. emphasise again that however relevant it was .at the time he gave notice of the motion it is now even more important. I commend the honourable member for using, as I am doing, some, of the facts in this report on poverty which cannot be questioned so far as political bias is concerned; so let the Government take notice of what is set out in the report. In the concluding part of that document Professor Henderson says: 
The.- relief of poverty should be regarded as one of the most important aims of government. 
When we get back, into office it will be one of the most important aims of government. He went on to say:. 
This will involve both direct measures to increase the incomes of.poor people and welfare services to prevent poverty, which should be fitted into a long-term policy for the distribution of the growth of national income. 
That is the approach that Professor Henderson recommended. That is the approach that will received the sympathetic consideration of the next government which will be a LiberalCountry Party government. He went on to say: 
In considering other measures such as restraint of inflation and the level of employment, careful consideration should be given to the effects of alternative policies on poverty in the future. 
That goes right to the Government. That is what I want the Government to understand fully because it is important that it should take notice of it. It is so important that I feel it should consider this aspect. If it is anxious to try to reject what has been said this morning because this motion has come from this side of the House, I appeal to the sense of humanity of Government supporters to try to get some consideration for these deserving people. I believe that part of the reason the Labor Government is in office is that it has made promises in relation to what it was going to do for the underprivileged. I quote from the policy speech of the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  in 1972 when he said: 
The basic pension rate will no longer be tied to the financial and political considerations of annual Budgets. All pensions will be immediately raised by $ 1 .50 and thereafter until it reaches 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. It will never be allowed to fall below that level. 
He said: 'It will never be allowed to fall below that level'. What a performance! When is it going to reach that level? It has not even reached it. He said the basic rate will never be allowed to fall below that level. This is one of the things that the Government should have its attention drawn to- that it is not in fact living up to promises it made. If it gets back into office as as result of these sorts of promises surely it is not too much for the Opposition to ask it to honour its promises. I quote now from another article in relation to this matter. It reads: 
Those currently receiving fixed pensions are having them eroded at the rate of 16 per cent a year and those receiving lump sums must earn in excess of this rate to merely stay on the same standard of living. 
Where do people get 16 per cent for their money? Where do people in the lower income category who have some savings invest their money to return them anything like 16 per cent? These people on low incomes are usually not sophisticated in the matter of investment. Because of the way this Government is acting companies which we regard as very sound companies are going to the wall because they cannot cope with the economic conditions which this Government has forced onto business throughout Australia. Where will these people manage to maintain their equity? How will they maintain the value of those savings? I refer to employees who see a need for regular and frequent cost of living adjustments. That awareness will be accentuated by any cost of living adjustment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the time Tor the discussion of notices. General Business, be extended. 
In considering this situation it is important that we look at the problem entirely, or almost entirely, from the point of view of the people I have been referring to and who are referred to in the motion. There is one thing that could be done by the Government which it has not been prepared to do. During this period of very rapidly rising inflation has the Government even considered trying to restore the purchasing power of the pension by adjusting pensions and welfare payments more regularly? Inflation could very easily accelerate to 20 per cent per annum. Most people think that that will happen. If it does there could be a very serious interim loss over a year. In such circumstances adjustments have to be made more frequently if justice is to be given to these people. But does the Government want to give justice to them? Does it really want to help them? No, I do not think it does. If inflation gets up to around 20 per cent adjustments will have to be more frequent in order to make it possible for recipients to come closer to preserving the real level of income required over a long term for them to have some sort of stability in their welfare and superannuation payments, but particularly welfare payments. 
More frequent adjustments would raise administrative costs. I recognise that point. Nevertheless, what is more important, protection for these people or trying to save a little bit of money for the Government? Naturally we want the Government to save money in reasonable ways. However, there should be no real problem in the Australian Government's obtaining the funds required to finance welfare programs and to meet their high costs due to inflation because in the economy as a whole money incomes tend to rise rapidly in line with the inflation rate. Incomes and most other taxation revenue will rise at least in proportion with the inflation rate. Let those people on welfare payments and superannuation benefits remember that point. Where is the answer? I invite honourable members who will follow me in this debate to tell us. I spoke early in this debate because I wanted to be sure of being able to speak in it. That is the only reason I am speaking now. Let honourable members opposite answer that question. 
There is another angle to which I should draw attention in regard to inflation and the problems it causes. I agree with the honourable member for Griffith that inflation is the greatest domestic problem facing this country. Institutions such as nursing homes, for example, have to charge for their services in order to meet running costs. Those costs ultimately will increase and there will be greater dependence on State-financed programs because these people just will not be able to carry on under those circumstances. There is a very grave need for the Government to take note of these things. This Government pretends that it is interested in the welfare of the people. It talks about superannuation schemes and what it is going to do regardless of the cost because it thinks that this will win it a few votes. 1 appeal to the Government to give consideration to those people to whom the honourable member for Griffith so eloquently drew attention. Let it adopt a real workmanlike basis in an endeavour to provide assistance and not have these people waiting, although they might not have to wait too long until they get a government from this side of the House which will consider their problems with sympathetic interest. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Quite a number of honourable members have spoken in the cognate debate on these Bills but to date not one speaker from the National Country Party has been called. So I take this opportunity to say a few words on the Local Government Grants Bill. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
I ask the Prime Minister: What arrangements have been made with regard to fodder drops for starving stock in the flood affected areas of southern Queensland and northern New South Wales? 
-Let me say how much I appreciate the sentiments that have just been expressed by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and his endeavours to keep the debate within the confines of the Bill. I appreciate the great efforts that he and his colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  have made to make aircraft movements in Brisbane so much quieter for people living in the vicinity of the aerodrome. The honourable members deserve a great deal of credit. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  said that we should be getting on with the job and passing this legislation without having the number of speakers that we propose to have in this debate. There are only half a dozen speakers and I feel that this Bill is important enough to justify that number. We have limited the number of speakers because we would like to get the legislation through within a reasonable time, as we have always tried to do. In view of the number of honourable members who sit on this side of the chamber I feel that we have not had more than the number of speakers to which we are entitled. That is something that the honourable member should take note of. It is something to which his attention probably will be drawn from time to time. 
I point out that although there is a 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges, there is an increase in the amount of revenue that is being collected. Recovery of the cost of the air transport infrastructure, as mentioned by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  did rise from 54 per cent in 1974-75 to about 57 per cent this year. One aspect of economic management of this country, an aspect which the Labor Government completely lost sight of all the time, is that if one is to have a sound economy one should move steadily. A sudden disruption to the economy by the introduction of extreme charges would have a very serious effect on the economy as a whole. I commend the Minister and the Government on trying to recover more of the cost of the transport infrastructure. I believe that the efforts made by the Minister and the Government in this direction are very commendable and in line with better or more effective principles of economic management. 
I also draw attention to the fact that the Government intends to examine carefully the whole question of cost recovery in respect of all air transport facilities. It would be premature to introduce any greater increase in charges before such an examination was undertaken. That was the very statesmanlike comment that was made by the Minister and one which I would expect to come from him. I hope, however, that in that examination consideration will be given to the burden that is placed on the owners of small aircraft, particularly those aircraft based in the more isolated areas. That is a point that has not been made in this debate so far. Perhaps I should not address the honourable member for Newcastle, he being the former Minister, but I draw to his attention the fact that there are still some points to be made in this debate which are worthy of attention. I do not intend to take up the time of the House in a reiteration of the points that have already been made but I, as have other honourable members, commend the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  for a very thoughtful and well prepared contribution to this debate. He is a member of my Party and lives not so far from where I live and I know his interest in this matter. The debate generally has been very beneficial to a consideration of the whole aspect of air navigation charges. 
-There are some people who do not like to be reminded of matters that it is necessary to mention here and anything that is not in line with the philosophy to which they adhere is regarded as cackle, or something like that. It is nonsense to talk like that. 
I would like to draw attention to the burden that rests upon the shoulders of people who are using small aircraft in outlying areas. I was talking to one such operator only today and he told me that he has had a great struggle to keep his charter operation going. That charter operation has been used in emergencies on many occasions. It is a great service in the area and he intended to close down last year because of the marginal profits, if not losses, he was making. However, he is concerned with the progress and welfare of his locality and was persuaded to continue another 12 months. He told me that if charges went up he would be forced to discontinue that operation. That is a very sorry state of affairs. I hope that in this examination some consideration will be given to such people. Some concessional rate should apply to areas where these planes are operating and where in some cases they are the real work horses on grazing properties. In many instances there is no public transport, not even land transport, and people are compelled to have aeroplanes to carry on their work. 
In furtherance of that plea I would like the Minister to examine very carefully the very small cost involved if concessional charges were applied to those areas where people make little use of the costly facilities available to people who use metropolitain aerodromes. I am not suggesting that people in outlying areas do not occasionally use those facilities - they do- but there is a case for keeping those aeroplanes in the air. They will not be kept in the air if these charges continue to rise. They have continually to meet the increasing costs of fuel, and of transporting fuel. I could go on with some of the things that have already been said but instead I want to point out how some costs have increased. I was talking to someone from the Royal Flying Doctor Service which has some Beechcraft A80 aeroplanes. Not long ago the Service was paying $248 to register each aeroplane but today it costs $969. The Royal Flying Doctor Service is supported by people who live in outlying areas, and without the Royal Flying Doctor Service many lives would be lost. It is a great consolation to people in these areas. But how often does the Royal Flying Doctor Service use the costly facilities that are available in some of our major aerodromes? Perhaps they are used only when the Service brings in patients who need specialist attention. I hope that the Minister will take particular notice of that point. 
We want to ensure that our aviation industry is maintained in this country. In general terms we have heard the position put in this debate; I think it has been well put, and I believe that the Government is on the right track, but in providing those services in the outlying areas we are losing ground. Trans-Australia airlines has cut out the Twin Otter services which it had in the outlying areas. Bush Pilots Airways Ltd took over some of them; some of them have gone. Port Augusta Aerial Services came up from South Australia and continued some. Most of them have been discontinued. So from a commercial point of view we have a very poor service provided for those people who contribute a great deal, in proportion to their numbers, to export income and to the gross domestic product of this country. So my appeal rests on an appeal to the Minister and to the Government to examine very carefully the position of those people who have to use and do use small aircraft in the efficient operation of their business. I urge that they be given some avenue by which they can get a concessional rate of air navigation charges- a concession which, I suggest, would probably be small in proportion to the amount of time that they use the very costly air navigation facilities which are very worthily provided to the aviation industry in this country. 
In conclusion I draw attention to the great interest of the Labor Party in this debate; there is only one honourable member left on that side of the House. He is the ex-Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I apologise to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because you are in the Chair as a member of the Labor Party. You could not be in both places. I take note of the fact that you are in the Chair doing your job. The aviation industry is a very important industry. The Government is endeavouring to do what it can, as my colleague said, in fairness to the taxpayer, in trying to keep the aviation industry on something of an even keel. I say again that some serious consideration should be given to the very severe problems that are confronting those people who provide charter aircraft services and those people who use private aircraft for the operation of their businesses, particularly in isolated areas. 
I address my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade and briefly preface it by stating that the beef industry has in the past suffered severely from price fluctuations as a result of reports that have proved to be groundless or greatly exaggerated. I ask: Can the Minister confirm reports that the United States of America intends to import less beef from Australia this year than she did last year? Does the Government have in mind taking any action on the matter? 
-The Minister for Overseas Trade will recall my asking him recently about the progress in negotiations with the United 
States concerning Australia's beef shipments for 1976. Have these negotiations been finalised? If so, what was the outcome in view of the fact that the beef industry is so urgently needing to know the full circumstances regarding beef exports in the near future and for the continuing beef season? 
-The honourable member for Nev/castle  (Mr Charles Jones)  finished his contribution to the debate on this Roads Acts Amendment Bill with a warning to the Liberal Party. I think that, on looking at the results of the last election, we might pass that warning back to the honourable member and to his Party and warn them to see that the policies that they instituted over the last 3 years, which the honourable member so proudly mentioned tonight, are changed to enable them to have a little more strength in this House so that we will have some sort of an Opposition. Oppositions are good for the operation of democratic government. I am not going to mention the comments of the Labor Party spokesman for transport. They have been dealt with and, anyway, they are hardly worth worrying about. 
I should like to comment on the remarks made by the 2 other Opposition speakers in the debate. Firstly, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  made a speech which was designed, as my friend the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  mentioned, to assist politically the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales. But of course the unfortunate fact is that the Leader of the Opposition is not welcome in New South Wales. So what he is doing on the side will be a mixed blessing for the leader of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales. Of course he was also rejected by the Premier of South Australia. That has been noted. The State Labor leaders would prefer the Leader of the Opposition to keep away. The belting he got by the Premier of Queensland when he went there should keep him out of State politics anyway. 
The honourable member for Newcastle again referred to the same old story of the track record of the Liberal-Country Party governments in our 23 years of office. The cold hard facts are that when the Labor Party came to office it inherited a soundly based economy. It had every opportunity to build on that. Because it brought in a Bill or two which added something- as a government in office has to do- it thought it was working wonders. If this Government had inherited an economy as sound as that inherited by the Labor Government we would be promoting policies of this Government to the advantage of the Australian community that would ensure the progress of Australia so much faster and better than at present. We are hamstrung by the inflationary trend that exists today, by all the factors that have contributed to those aspects of the national economy that prevent our Government from exercising its full capacity to implement the policies that it wants to implement. The first basic essential we have to achieve, for every reason- in this case for the construction of roads, since this Bill deals with roads- is the stabilisation of our economy. Our efforts to do this are the only reason why we are not able to do more than the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has done already. With other honourable members I congratulate him on the work he has done as Minister for Transport and on this Bill. 
The honourable member for Newcastle talked about the Hayden Budget and finished his remarks by saying: 'Read my statement'. All I say is that if he was so good as a Minister it is a wonder he is sitting on the back bench where he is now and not up front. Apparently his own Party did not agree that he was doing the job that he claims he was doing so well here. Perhaps he is right and the Party is wrong. It is so often wrong that my conjecture could easily be right. 
I am sure we all agree that road communications are a vital link in the commercial life of Australia and they are growing in importance as the pattern of road usage develops. That is a simple statement but it is very important when we are looking at funds that are provided for the development of the road system in Australia. Road communications are essential to enable us to realise fully the potential for development in many industries and for the transport of people and goods in many areas, particularly where alternative forms of transport are not available. So we welcome this Bill which provides another $64m for the various classifications of roads dealt with in the Bill. 
The honourable member for Newcastle made some play on the value of roads in rural and farming areas. Every Australian recognises this. The agricultural and grazing industries depend heavily on good roads for the economic, speedy and efficient transport of food produced for the benefit of all Australians and indeed for people in many countries throughout the world. So it is important that we have these good roads to enable those people who have to accept world prices for products to cope with the continually rising costs they have to meet. We welcome the development of rural arterial roads and other rural roads which not only help those people but also through their production help the gross national product of Australia and our export income. Indeed, the standard of living in Australia is substantially assisted by hardworking highly efficient farmers and graziers in Australia who can stand comparison in efficiency with their counterparts anywhere else in the world. Many of them do not receive anything approaching reasonable financial returns for the effort they make and for the capital they invest. Let the honourable member for Newcastle, who claims that the Liberal and National Country Party Government is unduly assisting those people, ponder on that aspect and the very grave difficulties that those people find themselves in today. They deserve at least the assistance they receive from this Government. Indeed, they deserve more. We are a broadminded Party, despite criticisms that are made of us some times. 
The honourable member is easily fooled. The tourist industry is very valuable, and we welcome the development of roads to enable the development of the tourist industry. It is growing in importance and it is very dependent for its expansion and even for the maintenance of its present standards on the developent of roads and the maintenance of roads in good order. I need hardly add that manufacturing industry also has to depend on road transport for the carriage of manufactured goods and materials. Every section of the Australian community benefits from the development of a good road system. We are fortunate in having a Minister of the calibre of the present Minister- that has already been mentioned- in charge of this very important facet of Australian community life. 
In common with my colleagues who have spoken already, I warmly welcome, for the reasons I have given and for many other reasons, the proposed legislation. I emphasise again that we welcome it across the board. Despite the unfounded observations of Opposition members who come into the chamber and go out again in a hurry, I welcome, with that broad national outlook which characterises members of my Party and members of the Government, the advances proposed for all the categories of roads mentioned in the Bill, including national highways, export roads, commercial roads, rural arterial roads, development roads, rural local roads, urban arterial roads and urban local roads. We welcome the finance being made available to all those categories of roads, and we are quite happy to see funds being provided. For long years now- I hope that the honourable member for Newcastle will listen to this- a foremost plank in the platform of my Party has been the balanced development of Australia; and that does not mean only the rural areas. However, it does mean that because we have a limited number of people in those areas it is sometimes more difficult to get the support in achieving our just desserts, as we have - 
I do not know what the honourable member is saying. He should bring along figures with him some time. Another reason why this Bill is particularly welcome at the present time is that flood damage has been occasioned over large areas of Queensland of which it is my honour to represent portion, in the State of New South Wales and indeed in many other areas, no doubt. The problems of local government have been increased as a result of the flood damage that has been caused, and local government has very serious problems with which to deal. 
I was interested to receive a screed from the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. That body is comprised of local government associations throughout Australia. It is interesting to note that in its screed it says the things that I had intended to say here, but I shall quote from its paper so that I will not be accused of presenting a biased and narrow point of view. That body embodies a large number of local government assications in Australia, as everyone who has taken any interest in local government at all would know. The paper states: 
Local government is grappling with an excruciatingly painful dilemma; evermore comprehensive and sophisticated services are demanded of it, yet the means to pay for those services is proving evermore difficult to find. 
That is the clear an unadulterated truth. The position in which local government finds itself today is that the rate burden has reached saturation point. Local governments are doing their best to provide funds for themselves through the avenues available to them. But it is just not enough. The paper continues: 
Local government, provider of some of the most basic services to the community, should not have to depend for its finance on the vagaries of Federal-State politics, the waxing and waning of Federal-State relations, for it effectively to meet the expectations of the people who depend on it. 
I go along with that. It continues: 
Financial assistance for local government must be linked as an adequate percentage with a major revenue source, as it is to State Government. 
At the last meeting of the South West Queensland Local Government Association that I attended I concentrated on this aspect. At that time what was termed the Stuckey report asked for 5 per cent of taxation returns to be provided to local government. In my view that would not have been too much. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations has continually requested such assistance. Perhaps the honourable member for Newcastle can tell me why the Labor Government did not provide for it in the 3 years in which it was in government and he was the Minister for Transport. 
I will talk to the honourable member about the matter afterwards. I would love to educate him a bit. I do not mind talking to him. I do not think that he is a bad fellow, really, but he is a poor politician. That is all that is wrong with him. 
I would like to help him if I could. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations has been very modest in its request at this time. It is asking, if my memory serves me right, for only 2 per cent of the income tax revenue. The Association is seeking from the Premiers Conference at least 2 per cent of the income tax revenue this coming financial year- and it deserves at least that. I strongly support that request of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations to the Premiers Conference. There is little doubt- I think this must be generally conceded; it could be a charge against the Government of which I was proud to be a supporter for a number of years- that of the 3 arms of government, that is, Federal, State and local government, local government is at the end of the line. Being at the end of the line, I believe that it has received the worst deal of the 3 arms of government. I think we should recognise that now. I hope that at the Premiers Conference which is just about to take place consideration will be given to the request by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. 
The Association makes the point- I had taken note of this matter before I received this screedthat there is an absolute necessity for a growth tax to be associated with local government finance. The $64m that is provided in this Bill will enable local government to cope to some extent with the inflationary trend that we are facing today. Leaving aside what the previous Government might have contributed towards the rate of inflation from which Australia is suffering today, the fact of the matter is that it is present. We know also that it is worldwide and that that has some bearing on the problems in Australia. But the soundness of the Australian economy was such that it should have been able to cope with the worldwide problem of inflation to a much greater extent than it has. If the previous Australian Government had adopted a sound financial policy we still may have had some problems with inflation but they would not have run to anything like the degree to which they are running at the present time. 
Another point that I think is made in the screed to which I have referred and that I want to mention is the problem that confronts local government in addition to having to find finance for roads. This is what makes this Bill so very important. I welcome the provision of the amount of money that has been set aside, but I believe that the provision of a greater amount would be more appropriate. The point that I want to make in relation to the need for assistance to be given by this Government to local government concerns the amount of the interest on loans that is being added to the burdens of local government One of the initiatives that came from the Government of which I am a supporteronce again I accept responsibility for it, although I did not welcome it at the time- was the local ownership plan for aerodromes. I believe that this is one of the burdens that should be relieved. The fact of the matter is that the local government just cannot carry all the burdens. 
The Government of which the honourable member for Newcastle was a member did not do anything about it in the 3 years in which it was in office. It is pretty hard to do everything in 5 months when one inherits a mess like the one that we inherited. It takes quite a long time to clean up before one can make a start and the bigger the mess the longer it takes to clean it up. We certainly faced a very serious problem in this respect. I have not been unfair about this matter. I said that we introduced it, that I did not welcome it and that the Labor Government carried it on. But local government has a terrific burden to carry. It is continually being asked to improve the standards of living in Australia by doing such things as providing sporting amenities and many other facilities. Swimming pools are being provided in comparatively small towns. Why should people in comparatively small towns not have such an amenity as a swimming pool? Why should they not have other amenities? Why should they not enjoy the standard of living that is provided in urban areas? 
The burden on local authorities is such that they do need the funds provided in this Bill for that area of activity. All local governments will welcome the provisions of this Bill because it does spread the funds across a whole range of road categories. One aspect that we as a Party and I particularly want to emphasise is that we look forward to that balanced development. We look forward to a roads system which will improve as time goes on. We look forward to the maintenance of our extended roads system. The greater the mileage to be provided in this category, of course, the greater the maintenance problem that local authorities must face. 
So, I urge the Government and the Minister for Transport to look very sympathetically at the claims of local government generally in this regard. I hope that the money that is to be provided by this legislation will assist local government to fulfil its role. It will need more than that, but this will help. This is one of the reasons why I welcome the legislation so much. The provisions of this Bill will help local government in the many aspects for which it is responsible. Let me mention one, although I could go on to mention a number. 
One of the aspects of local government that is vitally important in smaller areas and which shows up more particularly in such areas is that a local government authority in such an area is often the largest employer of labour. Because of the stringency that has been imposed because of high costs and the difficulty that people have in finding rates to enable those high costs to be met, there must be a reduction in employment. This is tragic because the work that those local authorities are doing is vitally important to the progress and development of this country and to the standard of living of people in those communities as well as to the decentralised development of Australia in such areas, which is in the interests of all Australians. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I welcome the Bill. I trust that it will be the forerunner of many other efforts by the Federal Government to recognise the problems that we face in the present financial situation. The prime objective of this Government at this time is to try to get the economy back on an even keel. This is one area of activity where the whole of the community benefits substantially from the assistance provided. 
Let me conclude on this note. I refer again to the appeal by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations which I hope will not go unheeded at the Premiers Conference tomorrow. I hope also that this Bill which we are discussing tonight will be an indication to that body that the Government is sympathetic to the needs of local authorities and understands the essential needs of the community at large with respect to road development. I quote again from the document prepared by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. It states: 
Failure to agree to this formula - 
The Associations are referring to the provision of 2 per cent of income tax revenue this financial year to local government; I say that they are very modest in their request. I return to the quotation 
Failure to agree to this formula, on the other hand, must have one or two equally unpleasant consequences: Either rates will have to be even higher or the essential services demanded of local government will have to be curtailed. Either way, the dissatisfaction thus created must find its way into the other tiers of government. 
We as a Government will help ourselves if we do the right and reasonable thing in this respect. We must provide a reasonable share of the national finances for local government as this will be to the advantage of this Government and to the people of Australia as a whole. 
I support the Bills before the House. I would like to commend honourable members from Tasmania who have put up such an excellent case for the fruit growing industry in their State, an industry which is of such vital importance to Tasmania. Despite any interjections that we might hear - 
-Despite interjections, those 3 honourable members who spoke tonight on behalf of the fruit growers in that State deserve well of those fruit growers. I am sure that their case, presented with undoubted sincerity and capacity, will be appreciated very much in the island State of the Commonwealth. The fruit growing industry generally throughout the Commonwealth is in very difficult financial circumstances. That would be an understatement if ever an understatement was made. Therefore it is absolutely essential that the support proposed in these Bills be given to that industry. It is sometimes thought that an industry which is not thriving and which requires some assistance is one that the nation could do without. Nothing could be further from the truth. An industry can be providing a substantial amount of income yet still be in difficult circumstances because of world markets at the time. Predictions at the moment for the fruit industry are not good- in fact they are grim- but the history of world markets shows that fluctuations are such that no one can foretell the future. Therefore, because of the overall value of primary industries, in this case the fruit industry, I believe that protection is justifiable from a national point of view. It is from that angle that I believe we should look at these Bills and the industry generally. 
I go along with the idea that reconstruction of the fruit industry is desirable. To the extent that it can be provided it should be provided. But at the same time those people who remain in the industry, those who are able to remain in it in an area where reconstruction is not desirable, possibly because of lack of alternative measures of production, should not be asked to work for a mere $800 a year, as the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  said in the closing stage of his speech. I recall that on 1 1 September last year the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  then shadow Minister, used some figures which showed that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics had assessed incomes of fruit growers in Tasmania as being as low as $800 per annum. Honourable members should not forget that the people in this industry are facing the same severe rising costs that are faced by other people. It is to their credit that they have been able to stand up, for as long as they have, to the very great disadvantages from which they have had to suffer. I believe that the expenditure of this money to enable this industry to remain in existence is well worth while. 
The income of fruit growers in the various States is a very clear indication of the almost impossible task they have faced over the years. I believe that at this stage it is desirable that they be given the opportunity to continue at least for some time into the future. I am somewhat concerned that this Bill seeks to provide assistance for only the next 12 months and that there is a suggestion that this assistance will be phased out. One has to look at what these people will do and where they will go if they do not grow fruit, what it will cost the Government in other ways to have them set up in other industries, and what responsibility the Government has towards them? These are sobering thoughts. 
One of the factors that may not be known to the community is the tremendous effort that has been made by the wives and families of fruit growers. The wives and families of fruit growers have stood by them, particularly in the picking season, to enable the farms to continue to operate for the time being at least. Many wives have worked in the industry for years so that their menfolk and families might be able to carry on into a period of greater prosperity. Without that assistance, the net farm income would be lower than it is. I know that the wives and families are not compelled to assist the fruit growers to the extent that they do; but this has been the spirit with which fruit growing has been conducted. With this spirit the people in the industry have done everything possible to help to keep the industry at least on a footing on which it can carry on. 
I agree with honourable members who advocate the further development of reconstruction. In view of the very unsatisfactory outlook at present for the fruit industry, I favour the maximum use of the reconstruction and tree-pull schemes. I think this is something that should be encouraged in appropriate cases. A maximum of $4m has been allocated under these Bills and up to another $lm will be provided on a dollar for dollar basis with the States. This is not a large amount of money relative to the national income or the national expenditure. The apple and pear industry has helped to develop towns, districts and areas and, as far as Tasmania is concerned, even States. We should remember what it has done for this country. I believe that the assistance that is given to this industry is necessary if the industry is to survive. I believe that we have to take some cognisance of whether we are going to take a conscious decision not to give the industry a chance to continue in operation. I believe that it would be a very sorry day if any government were consciously to take that decision. 
That is another story. I ask the honourable member not to get me going on that subject, because if he does I will rival him in my sincerity of purpose and the vigour with which I will promote that particular angle. The assistance provided in this Bill is at much the same level in money terms as that previously provided. However, because of the falling off in the value of money, in real terms the assistance provided is not equal to the assistance that previously had been provided. At any rate, the assistance is in line with the recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I believe it has been suggested that there should be some degree of regional reconstruction. I will want to know more of the details of that scheme before I express an opinion as to its merit. I still believe that when an industry has reached a stage where the outlook is not bright every facet of that industry should be given full consideration. I understand that the regions envisaged in the scheme are those where lack of profitability is the greatest. If that is so- I believe it to be so- there could be some merit in the suggestion of regional reconstruction. Possibly reconstruction could be expanded on that basis. 
The fruit industry is in very serious difficulties. It is facing very hard times. I believe that it has to be looked at very sympathetically and with the object of preserving it where it is of the greatest advantage to do so. I believe that the industry could give very serious consideration to regional reconstruction, in light of the fact that the Europe and United Kingdom trade is diminishing and this will present further serious problems. If this trend continues there could be very serious problems in marketing the production of this country. Therefore I believe that there is merit in reconstructing the industry to the maximum degree which is possible and which will be accepted by the industry. 
The industry also has to face up to the problems of increasing freight costs. While freight costs continue to increase the profitability of the industry continues to fall. This is another reason why assistance to the industry should be increased if we are to keep the industry in operation. I claim, as my colleagues on this side of the House have claimed, that the industry should be kept in operation. We have to pay for this. We pay for many other things. One only has to look across the whole gamut of Government expenditure to find that a lot of money is expended on things that perhaps are not as worthy as the retention of the fruit industry for the benefit of this country. Primary industry is much more heavily subsidised in many other countries than it is in Australia. Yet we depend very heavily on primary industry. Admittedly we do so now to a lesser degree in percentage terms than we have done in the past; but it is still a vital and important industry in this country. 
While I agree that encouragement should be given to the reconstruction of the fruit growing industry, I believe at the same time that those who remain in it should be supported at least to the extent that is proposed in these Bills. I do not think that is enough. I go along with my colleagues who feel that this industry deserves a little more assistance- maybe considerably more- than it has been getting. I think that we have to weigh up the value of the industry to the nation as a whole. When the Australian people look at the industry from that angle, I believe that they might find that the contribution they are being called on to make, if that is the way to look at it, is fully justified. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware of the large increases in post and telecommunications charges but I refer him to one in particular, the private mail bag charge which has gone up 100 per cent to $30. Is he aware that as a result of this a large number of private mail bags have been cancelled and therefore there has been no worthwhile increase in total revenue to the Postal Commission and that largely there has been just a disadvantage to many former users? As mail bags are provided by the users and are of advantage to postmasters and mailmen for sorting mail as well as being a protection for mail being delivered, will the Minister take this matter up with the Commission with a view to having the charge reduced to its former level of $ 1 5 which is quite high enough for this service? 
-Having just listened to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  one can readily understand why the economy of Australia is in such a desperate position. Apparently the honourable member is opposed to every cut in expenditure anywhere. It does not matter what the expenditure relates to or its extent. He says we must not cut it. We must just let the country drift. We must let the economy of this country develop to such a situation that unemployment and inflation will go from bad to worse. That is what happened during the 3 years of the previous Government. That is the attitude of the honourable member. He made no attempt to look at the Government's economic policy, which makes a sound approach to economic management. We would all like to do more in almost all the fields mentioned by the honourable member if this were reasonably practical economically. 
As one of the honourable member's colleagues said, one man's wage rise is often another man's job. He talked about asking the children about their schools. I suggest that he should ask children how they feel when their parents are unemployed. These are the sorts of things that he should consider when running a government in a country like Australia. This country should be able to provide assistance across the board for all the many needs which governments should consider. The whole of the speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide could be summed up as containing nothing but destructive criticism, as did that of many of his colleagues. I listened to him fairly carefully and did not hear him suggest any progressive move or measure. He referred only to the irrational, reckless, irresponsible expenditure of the Government he supported during its 3 years which brought this country to its present - 
It is irresponsible to spend more money than the Australian community can be reasonably expected to provide while at the same time enabling prosperity in this country to continue. Under the Government in power before the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  came to this place private enterprise was completely disregarded. That is one of the reasons why we are in the situation we are in today. The Labor Government did not realise that fact until very late in the piece when it started to feel the effects. It realised then that it should have done more to keep private enterprise operating and providing jobs that people so sorely need. If there is one Party represented in this House which claims that it endeavours to provide employment and to look after the work force in this country it is the Australian Labor Party. There is no area in which it failed more miserably during its 3 years in government The honourable member for Port Adelaide mentioned, as did some other honourable members, criticisms in the Press. For efficient operation of democratic government in any country there has to be some sort of active and effective Opposition. The Labor Party has failed to provide that Opposition and the media has taken on that responsibility. At times the media has stretched things a bit; I believe it has overdone things in an endeavour to make up for that - 
-Yes, failure; on the part of the Labor Party, as my friend the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  points out. Another point I want to make following the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide relates to what has been provided for the States by this Government. I certainly agree that there is a need for balance in this area. However the previous Government, the Labor Government, was determined to have centralised government in Australia. Its objective was the wiping out of the States and the Senate and the establishment of one centralised government here in Canberra. We on this side of the House are not prepared to go along with that point of view. Whatever members of the Opposition like to say about that point let me say that if it is a question of giving more authority to the States as against having a centralised government to the disadvantage of many parts of the Australian continent and the island of Tasmania, I think we would prefer the former course. We would prefer that to happen rather than have the centralised government that the Labor Party would like. 
Careful and effective economic management of national finance is one of the most important tasks of any national government. That is what this Government aims to do. If in doing so it has to cut expenditure in some areas where it would prefer to see expenditure continue at current levels, that is its national responsibility. It is important that we have our economy on an even keel. That would be to the advantage of the honourable member for Port Adelaide as well as the rest of the Australian community. He might not feel the results as much as others but it is important to realise that everybody benefits from a sound national economy. To achieve that the Government has to take measures that it would not have had to take if it were not for the reckless mismanagement of the Australian economy over the 3 years that the Labor Party was in office. The importance of sound economic management has to be recognised because of its effect on every other department of national operation. If we do not have finance with which to operate we must get along by using extensive and excessive loans, and high taxation. Consequently we have inflation and unemployment. We have seen that pattern unfolding. It is the responsibility of the Government we support to do what it can to see that that situation is rectified and this is not going to be easy. When a national economic structure has been built up along the lines followed by the previous Labor Government is is not easy to rectify the situation without causing some heartaches, without doing some things that nobody would want to do in different circumstances. 
The point is that some of these unpopular measures will have to be taken. They will be taken only by a courageous and determined government and that is what this Government has proved itself to be. Nevertheless it is important that no sector of the Australian community should suffer unduly in carrying the burden that will have to be carried. We will have to endure that period while we restructure the economy of this country and bring it to a level where we know it can be and where we know it should be. 
I want to move on and refer to some other specific aspects that I think are important and to some changes that have been made. I want to refer firstly to local government. It is one arm of government that has been neglected. Do not let me hear the honourable member for Port Adelaide say that the Government he supported did anything worthwhile for local government during its time in office. That Government did not accept the advice of the Australian Council for Local Government Associations which wanted a growth tax, a share of income tax, to enable local government to fulfil the responsibilities which rest upon its shoulders, responsibilities which it had to carry out under the inflationary trend that was coming. Local government had to accept added responsibilities that were foisted upon it. I know that some of those responsibilities were given to local government by Governments I supported. Let me be honest about that point. I refer to responsibilities such as that relating to the local ownership plan for aerodromes. I submit that that responsibility falls too heavily on the shoulders of local government. Local government also has responsibility for health, road development and the development of recreational facilities for many people. The honourable member for Port Adelaide spends most of his time in our capital cities and sometimes he might see that the Government has done a good deal to provide recreational facilities in those areas. But if he has the time he should come out to areas such as that where I live where he will see some splendid sporting facilities which have been provided by local government and which are a heavy financial burden on those local government bodies. It is time, high time, that local government got a share of personal income tax. 
It is long overdue, as my friend the honourable member for Holt says. The only comment I have to make on that point, and I have made it before, is that the decision taken by the Australian Council for Local Government Association to ask for 2 per cent, I thought, was too modest. However at least the Government did meet that 2 per cent requirement. I would have liked to have seen a higher percentage given to local government. In time to come there may be a need for local government to get a larger share of the tax pool of this country if it is to operate effectively in its sphere as the third arm of government. Local government in its field is just as important as State and Federal governments are. Local governments do have to look after the day to day needs of the people they represent. They have been doing so under very difficult circumstances. They have been running into crippling debts. I should like to comment in regard to local government on some statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently. I think his statement was on 9 May. It is a very recent one. 
The one thing we want to change is the attitude displayed by the honourable member's Party when it was in office. That is of paramount importance. That is one thing we have to change and it is the one thing that we will change. The Prime Minister speaking of the Council of Local Government Associations, said: 
The Council accepted the revenue sharing proposals; 
That is perfectly trueapplauded  the proposal to set up an Advisory Council for Inter-Governmental Relations and agreed with our proposals - 
That is, this Government's proposals-  to establish State Grants Commissions in those States that did not have them. 
That is absolutely right. It is something that was needed. Further on, he said: 
Under our reforms local government will be better oft". Like the States local government will have access to a guaranteed percentage of income tax. Because income tax is a growth tax local government will be in a position to respond to the new and growing demands made on it. 
It certainly will have to do just that. I commend the Prime Minister for the statement he made. I am sorry he did not get even wider publicity for it because it does set out the situation as far as local government is concerned. It does allay the fears that many local governments have expressed because they are concerned about the actual details of how this matter of the 2 per cent of tax will be distributed. It will be distributed through the States Grants Commissions. It is quite possible too that in these sorts of operations they do find that there is need to change and to improve them in the light of experience. But it is a wonderful thing that we can say here today that at last this Government has recognised the importance and the equality of the third arm of governmentlocal government- in the control of the affairs of the people of Australia. 
I should like to say a few words now about natural disasters because they occur from time to time. We have heard of tragic circumstances around the world in recent times in the way of earthquakes. In our country recently we suffered disastrous floods in my own State of Queensland and in the State of New South Wales. The point I want to make particularly in this regard is the need to profit from the experiences we had in that time. I know that the warning systems along the Maclntyre River were not as effective as they should have been. They went out of operation sooner than they should have done. I submit that there should be an examination of the best possible warning systems that can be made available to allow people to get the earliest notification of the flood levels and the length of time they might have to make preparations for the floods that are coming down. This examination might be going on at the moment; I do not know. If it is then I commend it; if it is not, then I urge that it be undertaken. I should also like to see inter-state consultation in that area. I know that in Queensland for some reason or other we were some time behind in getting the fodder drop in our area compared with New South Wales. I shall not go into the details of that. What I want to do is to draw attention to the matter so as to ensure that whatever problems were met then will be overcome in the future. Therefore I suggest that there should be consultation between the States to arrive at a system of operation through our natural disaster organisation which will enable all the States to get not only equitable treatment but also treatment which has the same timetable and also to ensure that there is no dissatisfaction between the States, which there should not be. I should like to see the intercrossing of States in times of natural disaster. I spoke to the Premier of Queensland during the Queensland floods and he said that he had no objection to it at all. But of course it cannot be done overnight; these things have to be organised. I strongly urge that there be consultation between emergency services of the States with the object of getting the best possible emergency services in all States. There are lessons to be learned, and I hope that this will be undertaken. 
I should like to pay tribute to those people who were involved in the State emergency services at that time. The Prime Minister himself took an active part. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is sitting at the table, came to Queensland and had a look at the flood areas. On one occasion I met him at Stanthorpe. But problems still remain. I believe we do need a common system of land to air signals. I am not sure whether a common system is operating yet, but if it is not, it should be. I hope that it will be provided. I should also like to see instituted in that field a better system of surveys in areas where it could be supposed that communications might have broken down. I have had complaints and recommendations which I have here, but I probably will not have time to elaborate on them. But some shires have given me their views on this matter and no doubt others will put their views forward. I hope that these views will be collated and that the fullest possible advantage will be taken of methods of dealing with those natural disasters and that the splendid organisation that we have will be even more efficient in the future. 
I refer now to something that I have spoken on before and that is the Postal and Telecommunications Commission. The Telecommunications Commission has made a profit and while it might gain some satisfaction out of that- and perhaps we all do; we like to see these commissions making a profit- but while it is making that profit there are many very deserving citizens of this country still waiting to have a telephone connected. If it is only a matter of funds, I hope that those funds will be provided to enable more people who have waited long enough to have telephones provided. I hope in the light of that profit too that some of the conditions attaching to the installation of telephones will be eased to enable more people to take advantage of them. I believe that with regard to the operation of the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions, the criteria which they had to operate under, brought about by the previous Government, reveal that the Commissions are a bit top-heavy. This needs to be examined. I believe that the whole operation needs to be looked at. I believe that the criteria under which they operate should be examined because in my opinion it is not possible to provide what Australia should have- a reasonably economic communications system across the nation. That cannot be provided simply on a user pays basis. If we are going to insist on a user pays basis for the complete operation of the postal and telecommunications systems we shall have a very weak type of communications system in many of the less densely populated areas of this country. 
The people who are providing a very substantial proportion of the gross domestic product and of the export income of this country deserve the consideration of the Australian people. For example, in my State there was a recent discovery of more natural gas. A pipeline is to be built at a cost of $2.5m to be connected to the pipeline already there. What is that worth to Queensland, to Australia, to the capital city of Brisbane? Why should people in that area and areas around it be deprived of a reasonable postal service? It is all very well to take the production that comes from those areas and give nothing in return and then say that a communication service must be provided on a user pays basis. What are we going to do with those sparsely settled areas in this country? Are we going to forget them? Are we going to let the population trend which is already there accentuate even further or are we going to do what we should be doing, which is, utilise all the areas capable of the production of wealth in this country which we need. So I say that if there is to be a sound communications policy then that user pays policy must be confined to those areas where it is reasonably economically practical to follow it. In those areas where it is not practical to follow it, because of the contribution of the areas to the national economy there should be some Treasury subvention, some Government funds made available to enable those communications to be provided. Unless we do have that, I say that we are going to fall down on our job as a nation. 
Strangely enough, as a member of the National Country Party, I have not yet referred I hope my friends on the Opposition side will take note of this- to the plight of primary industry, but I shall do so in the little time that is left to me. There is a very great need for consideration to be given to it with the finances that are available. Here again we must ensure balanced development in Australia. Members of the Opposition laugh; they do not give a damn what happens to the people in rural areas of this country. They cannot argue about these facts but they do nothing about them. There is a need for greater consideration to be given to those areas of primary industry where the need for assistance at the moment is very great indeed. 
I turn to defence. No doubt my friend the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  was disappointed that I had not mentioned it. We must provide adequate defence for Australia. If we provide all the funds that the Australian Labor Party and the honourable member for Port Adelaide say we should not cut, what do we do? Do we have no defence at all? From some of the statements I hear it would seem that members of the Opposition do not care whether we have any defence at all. 
Having just listened to the prophet of doom- the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)-  I feel that I should commence on a brighter note. I believe that, because of the Government's policy, next year unemployment will be reduced very substantially. I remember one of the Ministers in the former Australian Labor Party Government saying that he would resign when the number reached 250 000, but he did not do that. The policy of the former Labor Government was one of the reasons for unemployment being at the level we see today. In this debate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said that one of the problems in the country today was the Government's failure to spend. Certainly that could not be said of the Whitlam Government. It was that Government's failure to recognise that there is a limit to the amount of money that a government can spend and at the same time retain a sound economic structure that caused many of the economic problems we face today. 
One outstanding feature of the proposals contained in the economic statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is that the next Budget deficit will be very substantially reduced without undue hardship on any section of the community. That is a splendid achievement by the Treasurer and by the Government. Its implementation should mean that we are on the way back to sound management of our national economy and that, as a result, we should be able to look forward to a reduction in inflation and a reduction in unemployment with a return to a soundly based national prosperity. That is the objective of the Government and this program is a very substantial step towards that goal. However, if these proposals are to be fully effective there will need to be a responsible attitude to profits by business organisations and employers generally as well as a responsible attitude to wage demands by unions. I say that not because I do not accept the fact that reasonable profits have to be made and reserves built up to tide businesses over difficult times, but in these special circumstances I believe that it is encumbent upon every section of the community to adopt a very responsible attitude towards trying to achieve a more stable economy than that which we have at the present time. 
The Government has given a splendid opportunity through these proposals for these major sections of the community to work together with the Government for the common good of all Australians by providing an economic program which is vitally concerned with social justice in conjunction with sound economic management. The Australian community should think about that fairly clearly. Inflation has seriously and adversely affected all sections of the community but in no area has it been more severely felt than in the area of the low income group and disadvantaged families. Indeed the Henderson Report on Poverty shows that those who suffer most from inflation and unemployment are the poor. That is a fairly obvious fact. 
It has become increasingly obvious that the system of taxation rebates was of little benefit to families whose taxation was either at a very low level or even non-existent. This redistribution of social welfare assistance will not be as costly to the community as many people may think. It is estimated to cost something over $ 1,000m in the first year, but that will be offset by a saving of some $900m by the abolition of the rebate system. It has been estimated that about 70 per cent of taxpayers do not claim rebates for dependent children, so their take home pay will not be affected. While tax rebates for dependent children have been abolished, the rebates for a dependent wife, housekeeper and daughterhousekeeper have been raised by 25 per cent from $400 to $500. In the light of the steeply increased cost of living, this is a well deserved increase for which the Government should be commended. 
To sum up, it means that the new approach to social welfare will go where the need is greatestthat is, to the lower income group and to the disadvantaged. In this way it is much more effective and much more equitable than any single social welfare measure introduced by the former Labor Government, despite the fact that that Government claimed a great deal of credit for what it did in this direction. This measure provides the complete answer to those people who are constantly claiming, without any foundation, that this Government is concerned only with the people in the higher income bracket. It proves conclusively that this Government has a better understanding of the needs of the poorer people than the previous Labor Government had, and that this Government is prepared to back that understanding with action. 
Some concern has been expressed about the proposals relating to Medibank. I have found this in my home State of Queensland where people have enjoyed free medical attention and free hospitalisation in public hospitals over many years. Those who wanted to insure to enable them to go into an intermediate ward or a private room and to have the doctor of their choice had available to them the privately run organisations. These people are somewhat concerned about what it will cost them under the new scheme. I believe that there is some general confusion in relation to that matter. Therefore I think that people should not make a judgment on this matter in a hurry until the details of the proposals are known and understood so that individuals can then work out for themselves what they want to do under the new proposals and what it will cost them. 
One essential feature is that no one will be forced out of Medibank whatever their income level. That is something which has been suggested in this chamber. The Opposition has said that the proposed scheme will divide the community into 2 sections. No one will be forced out of Medibank unless he desires to leave it. So it must be remembered that the scheme does apply universally. Some people may prefer to obtain insurance through a private fund instead of through Medibank but that will be their decision when all the details are known to them. It is important to note that those on the lowest incomes, including pensioners, will receive Medibank benefits free of charge. Two-income families will not be forced to pay 2 levies. It may be cheaper for them to do that. If they decide to pay insurance premiums that will be their decision. It should be emphasised that the choice will be their own. Therefore I believe it is important that they should wait until they are fully acquainted with all the details before they make that decision. It is noted that there will be no tax rebate for health insurance premiums. The new Medibank scheme will operate from 1 October, so people will have time to wait for the full details before making a decision. 
I warmly welcome the personal income tax indexation proposal in the statement. One of the causes of continually increasing inflation has been that when wage increases have been applied to cover increased costs of living or for any other purpose, the wage increase has had to take into consideration the greatly increased taxation that would apply to the individual when the wage increase was granted. Tax indexation is designed to lessen greatly the amount of wage increases needed to provide a specified increase in the take home pay. Because of the beneficial effects on inflation of personal income tax indexation there will be an inbuilt protection for the value of future wage rises and there will be a protection of the value of savings that have been made down the years to the extent that inflation has been eating away at the value of those savings at a completely unacceptable rate. It is worth noting too that tax indexation will be providing increased financial benefits for the taxpayer year after year. Under the new scheme it is proposed that indexation adjustments will be automatic every year. The extent of the indexation will be determined by the rate of inflation over the previous 12 months. 
A very good feature of these proposals is that in future tax increases can be made only by legislation, which will require the Government to introduce a Bill into Parliament and have a debate on the proposed increase. It will allow the Parliament to debate the need for the increased taxation, and the parliamentary representatives of the people from all over Australia will be able to present a case if they so desire against the increase or against the extent of the increase. This will bring, to this extent at any rate, honesty in Government operations and, goodness knows, looking at the record of the last Labor Government it is high time that we took all steps that can be taken to keep any Government of this country as honest as the Parliament can make it. 
The Government is to be warmly commended on its decision to introduce full tax indexation on 1 July in addition to the 25 per cent increase in the tax rebate for a dependent spouse, housekeeper or daughter-housekeeper which I mentioned previously. There is also an increase by $150 to $350 in the single parent rebate. In both these instances the increases will be warmly welcomed. They are justly deserved. To obtain the full advantage of tax indexation I believe it will be necessary for all sections of the community to act with restraint in an endeavour to bring the full benefits of these proposals into operation. I hope this will be done by the community at large. If all sections of the community are prepared to work in this way to reduce inflation it can be reduced very substantially indeed. The Government recognises the need for restraint and has itself been active in the direction of reducing government expenditure where it is practical to do so. Of course, it is a great temptation for .a government not to do that because people are clamouring for expenditure everywhere. Governments are tempted to meet the demands of the community at large. 
Despite the Government's recognition of the vital importance of reducing the completely unacceptable size of the deficit which could have eventuated as a result of Labor policy, it should be noted that in some areas the Government has been sympathetic and understanding in relation to expenditure. I refer to the areas of education and social security as examples of the Government's understanding. Despite this, it looks as if the forward estimates will be cut by approximately $2,600m and that is a tremendous effort on the part of the Government in its endeavour to achieve financial stability. In the field of social security no changes are to be made to the existing arrangements relating to age pensions and allowances, invalid pensions and sheltered employment allowances. Again this demonstrates the Government's sympathy for these people most in need of the Government's assistance. 
The Government is also embarking on a 3-year program which will cost some $225m to finance the backlog of aged persons accommodation applications. That expenditure will- I must add this in all fairness- be limited to $45 m in 1976-77. There is a very great need in this area and this is recognised within the community. In my own area 2 aged persons homes have been built in recent times. I am very happy to see that the Government is making an effort to catch up with the backlog in this area. An amount of $140m will be available to local government authorities in 1976-77, and as someone has said, this will be available shortly so there will be a lot more done if we can get the finance. People within the community have done a tremendous job in this area. That amount of $ 140m which will be available to local government authorities in untied general revenue assistance represents a 75 per cent increase. This is another area that has been badly treated over the years and to which the Government is giving full consideration. 
It has been suggested that 2 per cent of personal income tax should be made available to local government. As I understand that, this was going to be done. I hope that this does come about because local government does need it. In the area of local government, the authorities have had to keep on borrowing money to fulfil their obligations and they are in pretty difficult financial circumstances at the present time. It is high time efforts were made to relieve them of some of this burden. 
There will be a marked increase in defence expenditure. Surely there would be no one who would fail to realise that unless we have the capacity to defend our country we are running the risk of losing it. Unless we are able to provide for the security of Australia then all the other things we are doing will be for nought. So I welcome the increase in defence expenditure, some details of which were given today. 
I believe that the Australian people must be brought face to face with the fact that we have been living beyond our means and that no individual, no business and no nation can continue to do that without coming to a day of reckoning. It is very fortunate that we have had a change of government because it will enable the present Government to apply those measures which will bring us back from what could have been complete financial chaos and could have resulted in a disastrous reduction in the value of the Australian dollar. I believe that the Australian media have been ungenerous in its approach to the economic policies put forward in the Treasurer's statement. For example, in one headline blazoned across a newspaper, or perhaps in more than one newspaper- this was mentioned here today- it was said that some 57 per cent of the people would be worse off under the Government's proposals. The newspaper did not say that 43 per cent- even on its own figures; and they may not be correct- would at least be as well or better off under the Government's proposals than they were before. There has been a splendid effort when one considers the total effort of the Government to restore financial stability to this country. 
-Can the Minister for Post and Telecommunications advise the percentage increase in costs of operating the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission by comparison with the cost of operating the Postmaster-General's Department? If he cannot do so, when will the operating costs of these commissions become available? Are the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions required to keep as close as possible to a balanced budget in their operations? If so, has this resulted in a restriction of mail services, particularly in rural areas? Is there any indication that this policy may require a further increase in postal charges? 
I say to those who are listening, in a brief reply to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is not in the House at the present time, nor is it normal for him to be here during a grievance debate. This is one of those times which is normally allowed for back bench members to be able to express their grievances and their problems. But I am quite sure that the Prime Minister, as he has so effectively done so often in the past, will give a very effective and adequate reply in due course to the comments of the Leader of the Opposition. In the short time available to me I shall express my grave concern at the actions of the United States Government in reducing Australia's meat imports at a time when the Australian meat industry is in such grave need of meat outlets. This has been done in spite of Australia's strict adherence to the United States requirement that we be willing to make up the shortfall of requirements from other countries whenever required to do so by the United States. This position has now been aggravated by the decision of the Canadian Government to limit imports from Australia for the remainder of 1976 to 8.2 million lb. I add that this is less than the monthly average which we have been exporting to Canada during this year and we still have  Vh.  months to go. 
It should be noted that this year Canada has been exporting large quantities of meat to the United States. When in Canada in August this year I expressed to the Canadian authorities my grave concern at the effect this could have on Australian suppliers. I was told that the supplies of Canadian meat to the United States would fall off, it was expected, later in the year and that this was not expected to cause any triggering off of the meat import provisions by the United States. But this, of course, has now occurred. I commend the Australian Government for its quick and strong reaction to the United States decision. I also commend the recent reaction of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I thank him for his quick expression of grave concern about the action taken by the Canadian Government. 
Today I lay stress on the very large amount of assistance which has been given by this Government to deserving people and industries. Time will allow me to make only brief reference to many of the actions taken. I mention these matters in answer to some of the criticisms that have been levelled at the Government. We must remember that the Government has as its prime objective the reduction in the inflation rate. It is against that background that these provisions should be considered. The Government is making special efforts and very creditable efforts to have our inflation rate reduced in the interests of all Australian people. 
The assistance measures that have been provided include a 40 per cent investment allowance which is designed to assist manufacturers and primary producers to up-date their equipment. There is a provision of income maintenance support by varying the eligibility criteria for unemployment benefits to include farmers suffering financial hardship who have registered for employment. That was an anomaly that has been operating for a long time and this Government deserves great credit for changing the previous situation. 
I should like to refer also- I am pleased to see that the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is at the table- to the extension of the distance for free telephone installation in country areas to 12 kilometres from 8 kilometres. This represents a reversal of the Australian Labor Party policy decision. It does not extend quite as far as I have advocated, but I realise the problems that we face in government with regard to financial difficulties and the inflationary situation. Also, there is now to be no property component in deciding eligibility for pensions. The only test will be income. This will help many people who have no income but who have owned an amount of property, such property has often been unsaleable, and they have therefore had to sacrifice it completely or live on very meagre means. I am pleased to be able to say that the term and farm development loan funds of the major trading banks are to be replenished by no less than $ 1 5 9m. 
There are many other areas in which the Government has acted but, as I said, time will not permit me to elaborate on them. The meat industry has been assisted. Surely everyone must agree that meat producers deserve everything that has been done for them and more. I point out that the export levy on meat of 1.6c a pound has been withdrawn. This will save producers some $25m annually. The Government has paid to the Australian Meat Board some $1.2m to offset the loss of Russian beef sales. To those who criticise us for selling meat to Russia I say that it is better for us to sell out meat, even if we subsidise the sale by meeting part of the price, rather than have the meat destroyed. We want to keep our meat industry established. It will be a sorry day when we just destroy meat These sales are one way in which we can avoid that to some extent. We have gained Japanese approval for greater Australian meat exports to Japan. Carry-on finance of $10,000 each at 4 per cent interest over a term of 7 years has been provided for beef farmers. Indeed, that assistance has been applied also to dairy farmers. Another $15m has been made available by the Government in partnership with the States, in loans to beef producers this financial year. The limit has been increased substantially. 
Most people who are interested in wool would know that the Government authorised the holding of the minimum reserve price for wool at levels not less than 230c per clean kilo on the whole clip throughout the whole of 1976-77 and 1977-78 wool selling seasons. I point out that for the first time this is a 2-year program and is designed to overcome uncertainty in the industry. This is an important aspect of the assistance the Government has given in this field. I could refer also to the amount of drought aid assistance and the assistance to the wheat industry, but I want to deal with the fruit industry which is having a difficult time indeed. 
Increased tariff protection from orange juice imports has been extended to orange juice producers. Further funds have been made available for price support of export apples, pears and dried vine fruits in 1976. A grant of $250,000 have been made to the Apple and Pear Corporation to supplement its funds. An amount of $65,000 is being made available to the Australian Wine Institute in 1976-77 to support its activities. The wine industry is a growing and beneficial one for the Australian Commonwealth and its people. The Government has provided an extra $lm for the continuation of the fruit growing reconstruction scheme for the removal of surplus fruit trees, and the application date has been extended to 3 1 December 1976. 
Despite the benefits that have been given to the fruit industry I am gravely concerned about the position in which mainland apple and pear growers now find themselves due to a combination of depressed export prices and the likelihood of a marked increase in the amount of Tasmanian apples coming on to the mainland market. I am quite conscious of the problems that confront the Tasmanian fruit growers. I have said that before in this House. This concern that I express with regard to mainland fruit growers is shared by a number of honourable members representing mainland fruit growers. To counter the problem I think we must look towards using export markets for apples and pears which normally have been exported. In my view we cannot allow a drop in exports in present circumstances even if it means a greater cost to the Government to maintain our export markets. That will be in the interests of Tasmanian fruit growers and indeed of fruit growers throughout the Commonwealth, and that is the attitude that this Government, as a Commonwealth government, must take. When an industry is in the difficulties that the fruit growing industry is in at the moment it needs special and sympathetic consideration of this Government, and I look forward to it getting it. 
There is so much more that I could have said with regard to what had been done by this Government. As I have said, time does not allow it. I have not touched on the assistance to local government, which has been very maxnaminous an increase of 75 per cent. A situation has arisen where we simply have to try to provide the assistance that is required to keep our economy in some degree of prosperity even though we are at the same time trying to maintain a policy which will control inflation, because that is vitally important to everybody. The main thrust of my remarks today- despite some attempted interjections which are not readily understood, and that is understandable I suppose because that is the way the interjectors are- is to show that we have done so much for which we have not been given credit, and we will continue to do that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Acting Minister for National Resources. Are mineral exporters frustrated and caused wasted time by the complex system of export controls which applied under the previous Government? What progress has been made in relation to the proposals by the Minister for National Resources to reduce the amount of bureaucratic involvement in approvals of mineral exports? 
-Can the Prime Minister advise what effects the latest economic announcement by the Treasurer will have on the availability of finance and interest rates for primary producers? 
-The comments of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  ranged very wide. He claimed that they were relevant. If they were, I could speak on any subject in the debate on this Bill, the Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Bill. 
I rise to associate the National Country Party with this Christmas Island Agreement Bill. I was very surprised when I heard the speech by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  It seemed that he was not over-anxious about the Christmas Islanders coming to Australia and wondered what had been done over there.  His  Party, the Labor Party, was in Government for 3 years and had ample opportunity to do something about Christmas Island. There was no need for him to come into this House tonight and say what should have been done and what sort of working conditions should have applied there. Those things could have been handled at any time previously. It has taken the Labor Party a long time to decide that something is wrong on Christmas Island. 
This Government has brought in this Bill which  is  designed  to assist  the long term residents of Christmas Island in establishing themselves in Australia in accordance with a long-standing agreement which the Labor Party accepted when it was introduced in the first place in 1972. It was endorsed in 1973. The Labor Party has had ample opportunity to do what it felt should be done regarding Christmas Island. I think that some crocodile tears have been shed. As to what might be done regarding Christmas Island, not so long ago as a member of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works, I was at Christmas Island investigating the possibility of establishing an offshore quarantine station there. The Committee decided against this proposal because of various factors involved. But at least we showed that we had an interest in the Island. My colleague, the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey),  who spoke previously, has made a good point. He suggested that we should retain Christmas Island even though the phosphate deposits will certainly be worked out. There is no doubt about that fact. The Australian Labor Party in government and in opposition has had ample opportunity to voice its opinion on what should be done with regard to Christmas Island. 
It is clear beyond any doubt at all that this Government has an obligation to resettle long term Asian residents presently on Christmas Island. That is accepted. The fact that there is no opposition to this proposal indicates that the Opposition accepts it too. The proposal is introduced in accordance with an undertaking which has been given by both sides of the House. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  recently gave an assurance that legislation would be introduced when the necessary amendment to the Christmas Island Agreement was agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand Governments. That was the only delay in recent times from our side. That has been done. I point out that the resettlement scheme applies only to long term residents. At the present time, as residents leave Christmas Island they are replaced by restricted term workers who will return to their homelands at the end of the term of employment for which they have been engaged on the Island. It is with those long term residents that we are concerned. 
I believe it is very pleasing to note that those people who have already come here from Christmas Island- this was mentioned by my colleague, the honourable member for Canning, in the speech which he has just delivered- have settled in very well. There is no doubt, as I saw when I was there, that these people are prepared to work. I believe that they form a very well ordered community. They seem very satisfied with their surroundings. Perhaps those surroundings could be improved. I do not know the industrial conditions under which they are working or under which they came to Christmas Island. Nevertheless, I did not see any degree of concern about the way in which they were living in the area at that time. There is no doubt that, if the conditions needed improving, there was a responsibility to have a look at what was being done. As I say, there was plenty of opportunity for the Opposition to have looked at that aspect if it felt something should have been done. Another point is that these people are Australians. We have a responsibility to them as such to see that they are cared for. It will be necessary for them to move out. They do not seem to be over anxious to move out. But they will have to move out when the phosphate deposits are exhausted. As the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  stated in his second reading speech, there will be no occupation or employment to enable them to continue working on the island. 
I will limit my remarks on this Bill with the object of expediting the passage of legislation which has yet to come before the House in the few weeks we have left. I repeat that there is an important obligation on the Australian Government. The obligation has rested on governments for some considerable time. This Government can take credit that at least it has reached agreement with the New Zealand Government. The Government has brought this Bill forward to enable its obligation to be fulfilled. I do not believe that the people on Christmas Island deserve the criticism which might have been levelled against them. Judging from the record of those who have preceded them, I believe that they will make very worthy citizens of this country when they come out to Australia. The Australian Government will do its duty by those people on Christmas Island. I am sure that it will look at the future of Christmas Island after those people have to leave because, as I say- and it has been said before- it is quite clear to anyone who has been there that it will be extremely difficult to try to build up a viable industry, other than working the phosphate deposits. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. Having been to Christmas Island and having seen people, I am very pleased that they are to get the justice to which they are entitled and will be relieved of the worries which have occupied them over recent times. When the Minister for Administrative Services was there, he demonstrated that they would obtain justice. This is something which we, as a Government or a Parliament, have been somewhat slow to provide. But at least it is being done now. I commend the Government for that fact. 
I have listened with some interest to the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  who has just resumed his seat. I was amazed at his lack of knowledge of the industry, considering the fact that he spoke on this Bill. He talked about the value of having a levy based on an acreage or hectare basis. Any one who is conversant with this matter will know that the Apple and Pear Growers Association did recommend a production basis as a basis for a levy but problems were associated with the collection and we recognise that. At least the honourable member for Fraser does know that much. Nevertheless, one has to look at what is fair and reasonable for the assessment of any levy. There is no doubt that a levy based on a 
E reduction basis is fair and equitable. The honorable member for Fraser emphasised this when he said that the imposition of a levy on a tree basis was considered and that is correct also. The honourable member said that he would not agree to a levy being imposed on a tree basis, if I heard him correctly, because there are more trees on some hectares than on other hectares. What is equitable about that on a hectare basis? The basis of Queensland's objection to that proposition was that it had not been able to produce per hectare the amount of apples that are produced in other areas. Yet, it is a viable industry, a good industry and an industry on which the town of Stanthorpe is based. All that Queensland required was that production would be the base of a levy. Nothing can be fairer than that. I ask honourable members to examine other systems of the collection of levies. The honourable member for Fraser referred to the egg industry. I am not sure about it. But I do know that in most instances it will be found that the levy is usually assessed on a production basis and that is a reasonable way of doing it. 
The honourable member for Fraser spoke about rash electoral promises made by the Government. He referred in particular to Stanthorpe. I suppose that Queensland has a smaller production of apples than most other States. Therefore, one would not get the amount of electoral support from applegrowers in Queensland as one would get from applegrowers in many other areas who must have argued that the levy be based on production. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who lead for the Opposition in this debate asked why the Government did not implement the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
-He possibly did not read it. What the honourable member for Blaxland recommended was a dollar a bushel support for the Tasmanian apple industry, if he wants the IAC report implemented. 
-Apparently, the honourable member for Blaxland does not want the Tasmanian people to have a reasonable opportunity to export their apples and maintain their export to the traditional markets. This Government was generous enough to say that it would give 2 dollars a bushel as export support. The Labor Party must accept that. Its leading spokesman on this matter said that we should have implemented the IAC report. I hope that the Tasmanian apple growers are listening to me tonight and will remember my words at the next Tasmanian State election. I am sure that this is something which will give them a great deal of concern. I make no apologies for Queensland asking that the levy be on a production basis. We are quite unequivocal about that point. It was not an election promise but it was a logical argument and it was accepted by the Government. I hope this Government will continue to accept logical arguments coming from that great State of Queensland. I am sure it will 
We are having a cognate debate tonight on 5 Bills relating to the apple and pear industry. The first 4 Bills will form a new basis for financing the activities of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. These proposals conform to the original recommendations and are accepted by the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association which represents apple and pear growers throughout Australia. The Apple and Pear Levy Collection Bill will enable a levy to be placed on fruit marketed in Australia and defines that the rate of levy will not exceed 6c a box for apples and pears sold for consumption as fresh fruit, that it should not exceed 60c per tonne for juicing fruit and $1.40 per tonne for processing fruit other than pears for the production of canned fruit. From the commencing date of the legislation, 1 January 1977, the levy has been fixed at Se a box for fresh apples and pears whether marketed in Australia or exported, 50c per tonne for juicing fruit and $1 per tonne for processing fruit. Income for the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation as a result of this levy should be in the vicinity of $850,000, which is some $600,000 more than the amount which would have become available from the present levy being applied on apples and pears exported. That was the previous basis. This new levy will give the Corporation the finance necessary for it to perform the many duties it will have to perform, particularly in the promotion of sales on the domestic market and abroad. I believe that that money is necessary and that it will benefit the industry that provides it. 
The honourable member for Fraser said that we would not be able to estimate what that income will be. If he goes to the trouble of getting a list of statistics he will find the figures set out every year. I have them for every year from 1971 up to and including an estimated figure for 1975-76. The statistics show a variation from one year to another. It is true that there is alternatively a big crop and a small crop but the results are assessable. There is no problem in that regard. Anyone looking at these figures will see that they go up and down- that they vary every alternate year- but the whole industry is well aware of that situation. It will be necessary, no doubt, for the Apple and Pear Corporation to regulate its budgets because those variations certainly are likely to happen. 
The relevant Act will be amended so that the annual reports and financial statements of the Corporation will be based on a calendar year instead of a financial year. That is a good idea. It is more appropriate to have this done on the basis of a calendar year because of the time at which funds flow to the Corporation under this levy scheme. It is very important that we note that when a proposal of this kind went before the previous Government the idea was for the Corporation to be financed from the proceeds of a levy on an acreage or hectare basis. The honourable member for Fraser confirmed what I am saying. As I have mentioned before, and I want to emphasise it again, that was a very distinct disadvantage to those areas which, while being quite capable of having a viable industry, had to overcome the problem of not being able to produce the same amount per hectare. We believe the present proposal is an equitable basis for the levy. 
One very important factor which must be considered and which will be beneficial, despite what has been said to the contrary, to returns for fruit exported from Australia is the recent devaluation of the Australian currency. Obviously the devaluation decision will substantially benefit people exporting fruit. If we are to maintain a stable apple industry in this country we must continue to enable our fruit exporters to supply the traditional export markets. We also want to try to build new markets and I hope the Apple and Pear Corporation will be successful in doing so. There is no doubt that the devaluation of the Australian dollar will greatly assist those people, particularly traditional exporters of fruit. This applies particularly to Tasmania. I hope that the Tasmanian growers are listening to what I have to say and I hope they will remember this during the current election campaign in that State. 
The apple and pear industry is very important to a number of electorates throughout Australia If it were not for the fact that we are hoping to be able to get through the legislative program by Thursday of next week more honourable members would have put their names on the list of speakers for this debate. I made a note of a few members of my own Party who would have spoken. They are the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie),  the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd ) and the honourable member for Riverina (Mr Sullivan).  All those honourable members from my Party alone would have liked to have spoken in this debate. We thought we would be only allowed one  speaker  and what I am saying reflects their views to a large extent. They are concerned about the welfare of the industry. I have no doubt that that applies also to my colleagues from Tasmania. They would have been anxious to support these Bills, as they were supported so splendidly by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  While honourable members from Tasmania were not allowed the number of speakers that they would have liked in this debate they can take some consolation from the splendid effort of the honourable member for Franklin. I commend him on his address. 
Although I may not always agree with the ideas of honourable members from other States when we are trying to solve a problem of this kind, the real way to tackle a national problem is to look at it from the points of view necessary to arrive at a program or a policy which will give the greatest national advantage. We must always remember that in this national Parliament. I recognise the importance of the apple industry to Tasmania and the effect that it has on the economy of that State in comparison with other States. I must take up one point with the honourable member for Fraser. He said that New South Wales apples could be sold in New South Wales but Tasmanians could not sell their apples as well to the Tasmanian people. I suggest that he overlooked the populations of the 2 States. He did not take that factor into consideration. We should be fair. He did not consider the number of people to whom the apples could be sold. You can sell only a certain number of apples to a certain number of people, no matter how much they might like to eat them. If we had the relevant figures we might find that Tasmanians eat as many or more apples than the people of New South Wales on a  per capita  basis. My honourable friends from Tasmania would agree. 
A great deal of work has to be done by the Apple and Pear Corporation. Added finance will be available to it for research and other purposes which were mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Franklin. However in my opinion its important role, its prime objective, should be sales promotion. Let us consider the situation in round figures. If the Australian demand approximates IS million bushels or thereabouts- on the average we export approximately 4.S million to 5 million bushels- and we increase domestic consumption by something like 10 per cent and another 1.5 million apples are absorbed by the domestic market, we will substantially reduce the percentage of apples that have to be exported. This would give people dependent on exports a better opportunity to choose better markets and they would not have to contend with so many apples. More apples could be absorbed on our mainland markets. 
There are many aspects of this industry that the Apple and Pear Corporation will have to consider. Another aspect worthy of mention in connection with the apple and pear industry is the processing and selling of apple juice. In my own area the people of Stanthorpe have endeavoured, to their credit, to provide a juice production plant. One of the reasons is the hailstorms which hit the area. They spoil the fruit to the extent that it cannot be put on the fresh fruit market, but it is excellent fruit. It could be processed into juice. It would be a very healthgiving food. Scientists from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation have developed a formula which they hope will make apple juice more popular as a fresh fruit juice. This is something at which we should look. It is one way by which the products of this industry could be diversified. Fruit which otherwise might not be made available to the community or utilised economically could by utilised. The drink, which could be appearing this winter, has a special flavour. It will not have a sweet flavour, which is common to many apple juice drinks and of which people are not so fond. At least they will have the option of having either kind of drink. That would be a very good aid to sales for those people who are producing apple juice. The formula was developed by Sydney based scientists of the Food Research Division of CSIRO. It shows what can be done. I believe that this is something which we should follow up and which the Government should encourage to the maximum extent. 
I am the only speaker from this little corner. It is not always talked about in a complimentary fashion, but it is an effective corner. It has done a grand job for the national Parliament and for Australia generally. If I take a little more time than I usually do, I feel justified because of the performance of members from this corner. I know that my colleagues are in accord with me on many of the things that I am saying. We want to promote the sales of fresh fruit and of apple juice in Australia. We want to look at our export markets and to do everything we can to assist this industry, which is a valuable one and which, it must be borne in mind, provides a very healthy food for this nation and for those people to whom we export. The old saying 'an apple a day keeps the doctor away' has a very sound basis in truth because an apple is such a health-giving food. We need to remember that. I hope the Australian people will take this opportunity to buy the fruit on our domestic market. 
I regret that sometimes the cost of fruit in some areas is higher than I think it ought to be. However, transport costs are heavy. I think we should look at a means of providing this health-giving food, fruit- apples and pears in particular- to the consumers in this nation at a cheaper rate so that the families, the children in particular, can enjoy and benefit from the fruit available to them. 
I commend the Government and the Apple and Pear Growers Association, which has advised the Government in relation to many of these areas, on the results they have achieved. I believe that the approach now being made could bring worthwhile results to the apple and pear industry of Australia. Along with representatives of other apple growing areas throughout Australia, I wish the Corporation every success in its endeavours to increase the sale of and to improve the distribution of the Australian apple and pear crop, not only for the benefit of those people who are producing the apples and pears but also for the benefit of consumers in this country. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.55)- I was very surprised to hear the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  refer to some uncomplimentary remarks that are made about the corner from which he is speaking. I assure him that there are very little grounds for his so doing. It is not the Opposition that leaves him on his own. Members of his Party have left him there tonight on his own to defend these apple and pear Bills. 
You would not know how to collect them, either. 
It has already been pointed out that the various Bills are legislative proposals to give effect to the recommendations of the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association for a renewed basis of financing activities of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, that it is intended to do so by the imposition and collection of levies on the production and sale of apples and pears in Australia and by a charge on apples and pears exported from Australia. When the Corporation took over from its predecessor, the Austraiian Apple and Pear Board- a Bill was presented to this House in November 1973 for the establishment of the Apple and Pear Corporation- it was made clear that financing through the export charge would be only an interim measure. I recall that at that time it was considered that policing the collection of a levy on all apples and pears produced and sold would present great difficulties because ofthe high percentage of fruit disposed of through undocumented or cash sales in some of the major producing States and that these sales lend themselves to an easy evasion of the levy and require a disproportionate effort to police. The honourable member for Fraser has already pointed out some of the problems connected with that. 
When the Bill to set up the Corporation was debated it was pointed out that some of the fruit growers were unable to put their fruit on the export market because they knew that if they did their fruit would be sold at a loss, and they could not afford to pay for the picking and the freight costs to send the fruit away. Therefore, as the honourable member for Fraser said, a good deal of fruit was sold at the orchard. Some of it, we were told, was sold already on the trees. Buyers would buy the full crop and would pick the fruit themselves. I am not too sure that some of these problems will not be still with us once these Bills are passed. However, it was pleasing to hear the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in his second reading speech, say that there is a place in Australian horticulture for a viable apple and pear industry and that these Bills were designed to ensure a firm financial base for the Apple and Pear Corporation. No doubt additional funds placed at the disposal of the Corporation, as provided by these new levy arrangements, will enable it to make a more positive contribution to market development. 
However, it must be obvious to all who have studied these Bills and who have given some consideration to the apple and pear industry that this finance will have to be provided by near bankrupt producers. They are the ones who will have to provide these additional funds that are to be placed at the disposal of the Corporation. Therefore it is hoped that the Corporation will have some success in its marketing development. However, from reading the various reports, it is clear that many of the producers do not expect to remain in the industry to enjoy the increased marketing opportunities, if they are obtained by the Corporation, unless they are given some other form of assistance. From my observations and reading of various reports dealing with the whole industry, including the report of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, I believe that very huie can be achieved to bring about a viable apple and pear industry merely by changing the basis of collecting the levy on apples and pears from a system of deriving funds from a charge on apple and pear exports to a system based on a levy on the quantity of fruit marketed in Australia and overseas. 
When the Bill to establish the Apple and Pear Corporation was introduced in 1973, it was pointed out that financing through export charges was an interim measure only which was to be replaced by a broader financial base for the Corporation through a levy on all apples and pears. However, it was pointed out further that apple and pear producers would not get out of their present financial predicament merely by forming the Apple and Pear Corporation. At that time, apple and pear producers were facing grave economic problems brought about by Britain's entry into the European Economic 
Community, and rising costs, especially freight costs. A proper solution could be achieved only by tailoring the quality and quantity ofthe fruit to the market outlets and by introducing the most economic techniques and practices. It was coupled with these proposals only that a highly skilled, effective and nationally organised body could come to grips with the marketing problem. 
We all hope that the extra finance provided by the growers through these levies will allow the Apple and Pear Corporation to play a more meaningful role in obtaining marketing outlets. But we should be asking ourselves: Are we giving the Apple and Pear Corporation an impossible job? In 1973, the apple and pear industry was facing a very bleak future. What kind of a future has the industry today? We need only to turn to page 3 of the report for 1 975-76 of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to decide that point. Under the heading 'Assessment of Overall Industry Position', the report states: 
In its First Report (1974-75), the Corporation provided a summary of the industry's basic problems, emphasising the imbalance between current levels of production and the opportunities for economic disposal through export outlets, domestic fresh consumption and processing. 
The 1976 apple season has been characterised by 'off year production, particularly in Victoria and NSW. This has resulted in an overall improvement in prices for fresh local sales. However, despite substantially lower export quantities, particularly to UK/Europe, returns from major overseas markets have been most disappointing and in fact represent a distinct deterioration compared with last year's results. In the processing field, there has been little improvement in demand for solid pack apples althought the prospects for increased consumption of juices (single strength) and cider appear brighter. 
The recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission, which amount to a virtual phasing out of large sections of apple growers, added a further dimension to the general pessimism and uncertainty prevailing in the industry; however, there have been widespread and strongly based objections to the Commission's findings. The Corporation, together with the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association, has made detailed submissions to the Government regarding the industry's future. 
The fresh pear industry, which in recent years has enjoyed reasonable returns from export markets, suffered a setback in 1976, particularly in North America and Britain. This decline will further aggravate the position of growers in the Goulburn Valley, already suffering the effects of problems in the canned fruits industry. 
From reading that report one can conclude that the future of the apple and pear industry does not look very bright. We might well wonder: Is it a fact that we are giving the Apple and Pear Corporation an impossible job? 
The recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission on the phasing out of many apple growers has only convinced the producer that this Government will not do much except put those in the industry on the skids and get rid of them. I remember when  Mr Duthie,  the previous member of Wilmot, used to speak on this legislation in this House. Members of the Liberal and National Country Parties often used to tell us what they would do when they were again in Government. I say tonight that there is certainly a big gap between their promises and their performance. Even now, Government members instead of searching for an answer to many of the problems of our primary industry are trying to escape all blame by claiming that the present situation was caused by the previous Labor Government. It seems strange to me that they should do this. We all know that the Labor Party had to fight 3 elections in 3 years and that all the progressive legislation of the Labor Government was held up in the Senate. 
The producer is entitled to know how long the Government will hide behind the old dodge that the present situation was caused by the Labor Government. Surely 12 months in office is long enough to produce something positive instead of continuing to knock more and more industries out of action. Surely 12 months in office is long enough for the Government to produce something more than a reduction in everyone's savings by 17'/2 per cent and an increase in the tax rate to provide for a national health scheme. Surely 12 months in office is long enough to produce something other than a record number of persons unemployed. There certainly is a big gap between the promises and performance of the Liberal-National Country Party. 
It is not always the fault of the Government of the day that some sections of our economy are facing a crisis. I believe that it is the duty of all of us to try to come together and to find a way out of these problems. It is not much good if the Government continues to blame previous governments for what is taking place. What we should be looking at is a way to find better markets, to achieve better overseas prices and to really help the industry. What this country needs is a government that has the courage to take a positive role, not a government that takes the negative stance that present problems were caused by some previous government. 
I am prepared to admit that adjustments are necessary. What we must guard against is the destruction of sections of the industry which have a long-term future beyond the existing adjustment period. I point out that it takes time and experience to grow apples and pears and to get the expertise to prepare and to market them. Tree pulls should be carried out in selected areas only where there is no possibility of a return to viability in the long term. In the meantime, the Opposition supports the Bills presently before the House as there is no doubt that spreading the levy over the whole production and sale of apples- sales in Australia and export sales-is the most equitable method of collecting the levy. 
-Has the Acting Minister for National Resources seen reports which indicate that Japanese steel mills are insisting that Australian coal exporters change from the traditional system of determining prices annually to a 3-year pricing system? What is the significance of this proposal for the Australian coal industry which this year was Australia 's largest export earner? 
-Is the Treasurer aware of the difficulty of some fire brigade boards in finding suitable persons willing to act as auxiliary firemen? Is he aware also that the deduction of 35 per cent of the allowances now necessary under the provisions of the Income Tax Act has caused dissatisfaction and may cause resignations of people who will be difficult to replace? Will the Government examine the position to see whether some way can be provided for payments to auxiliary firemen to be exempted from income tax so as to assist fire brigades in engaging auxiliary firemen and so obtain the necessary manpower in case of fire or other disaster where the fire brigade is called for help? 
-The Minister for Overseas Trade will be aware that Australia's exports are setting new records; but I ask the Minister Is it true that our 'invisibles' payments also are hitting record levels? If this is so, can the Minister say what the implications of this trend are for the balance of payments situation in this country? 
-A lot of comments have been made with regard to the size of electorates and the effect of clause 7 on them, but in the main a large amount of the debate has developed around the advantage to a particular party. I refer particularly to the Australian Labor Party and its approach to electoral redistribution. We hear a lot of discussion about the problems of large electorates or small electorates. In the United Kingdom, for example, the larger and smaller electorates are more evenly distributed between the parties. Therefore there is not the amount of haggling that goes on in this Parliament with regard to redistribution. 
I heard the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  say that we do not trust our Distribution Commissioners. I trust them up to 20 per cent tolerance. I would not restrict them to 10 per cent tolerance. I would rely on their good judgment, taking into consideration all the factors available for them to consider. I would be much more impartial than those speakers who perhaps want to help themselves or their party. There are a lot of angles to this situation. 
I refer to electorates getting out of kilter under the 20 per cent tolerance. In my State, Queensland, the last distribution was in 1968. Let me mention the average enrolment for the 9 electorates of Capricornia, Darling Downs, Dawson, Fisher, Kennedy, Leichhardt, Maranoa, Wide Bay and Herbert. They are the non-metropolitan seats, with the exception of McPherson. The figures would have been a lot better with McPherson included, but I have left it out. The average enrolment of these 9 electorates today is 60 450. It is not far from the permissible average of 64 000, which it is suggested will be the average in Queensland if 19 seats are allocated. In the other 9 seats in Queensland, including McPherson, which is the one which has grown out of all proportion, the average is some 76 000. The tolerance of 10 per cent will mean a variation from 57 000 to 70 000. 1 would like a 20 per cent tolerance and an allowance for all the disabilities of large electorates. I emphasise that there are disabilities in representing large electorates. I refer to no less an expert than the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  who said: 
The problems of the geographically large electorates vis-a-vis small electorates have long been acknowledged. 
The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  in another place used the same words. They are not the words of people who are supposed to be benefiting by putting up a case for the problems associated with the representation of large electorates. I hope that the people listening to this debate consider the fact that a lot of the debate- too much of it- has centred on what might affect a political party to advantage or otherwise. I hope we can get away from that. The way to get away from it is to give the Distribution Commissioners the opportunity to use those considerations. The fact is, and it has been acknowledged in many other countries, that there is a difference between electorates. Someone spoke about everyone having an equal opportunity to influence the Government. To have an equal opportunity to influence the Government you also want an equal opportunity to discuss with your member the problems of government. That is what the people in the large outlying electorates do not get. The fact that a member gets more funds or travel facilities simply reduces the cost to the member servicing a large electorate. It does not save him the great amount of time he spends travelling. When travelling by air in my electorate I fly over a large number of settlements on my way to larger centres. I like to give all the people an opportunity of seeing their member, so I travel a lot by car to the smaller centres. So let us not run away with the idea that simply getting travelling facilities enables a member to represent his electorate as well as a member in an electorate where people have an opportunity to go and see him or where, as one of my colleagues said, members do not even have to drive a car. However, that is their business and I have no doubt that their electorates are as well represented as any other because of the small distances. 
Let me look for a moment- again I take my own State of Queensland- at the type of redistribution that was proposed to this Parliament by the Labor Government and rightly rejected by this Parliament. Let me quote from memory a statement which appeared in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail. 
It does not. It is not a paper which is regarded as leaning particularly towards the National Party in that State. The expert the newspaper asked to consider the electoral redistribution in that State, and he was well qualified to do it, when referring to the electorate of Flynn, which took in a large part of the electorate I have the honour to represent, called it nothing less than a monstrosity. That is what members of the Labor Party would like to have in a redistribution in this country. They would like to have a monstrosity imposed on people outside the metropolitan areas. The reason they do not worry about the people outside the metropolitan areas is that so many of their members are elected in the metropolitan areas. Those who are elected outside such areas do not have an opportunity to influence decisions to the extent that I feel they probably would influence them if they had the numbers to do it. Clause 7 of this Bill takes into consideration - 
As I said today, the honourable member is very young and inexperienced in many things in this Parliament. That is just another illustration of that fact. The fact that clause 7 includes a provision relating to electorates over and under5000 kilometres does bring a degree of justice and, as my friend the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  said, the parties are in accord on that issue. Nevertheless, the fact remains that the redistribution can be effected quite adequately under the Bill the Government has brought in. I heard some talk about mathematicians, but I do not think that some Labor members are as good mathematicians as they think they are. As a matter of fact, the provision contained in clause 7 does ensure by mathematical operation much closer numbers in the electorates with the 10 per cent tolerance than without it. If the Labor Party wants to get a more even distribution of numbers in electorates then it should be supporting clause 7 and not opposing it. I support the Bill before the Committee. In my view, it would have been a better Bill if we could have had the 20 per cent - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Does the Minister for Transport still receive reports on the road needs of Australia from the amalgamated Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics such as were previously provided by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads? If such reports are provided, to what extent are they affected by the restriction on the independence of the amalgamated Bureau in comparison with the independence which was enjoyed by the former Bureau of Roads? 
-The problem of forming a quorum sometimes arises in this House. However, it does not arise for the reason that was stated by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  The honourable member said that the problem arises because members are in their electorates and not in the House when the House is in session. I think that the honourable member must agree that this was not the reason why a quorum was not formed on the occasion he mentioned. On very odd occasions problems arise in respect of the forming of quorums. On the particular occasion referred to by the honourable member when a quorum was not formed, the then Opposition constantly called for quorums. At that time government supporters were busy with business affecting their constituents and the people of Australia. Each time a quorum was called they had to run into the House so that the quorum could be counted. However, when the quorums were called Opposition members did not come into the House. In fact they were encouraged not to come into the House. As a result the business of government committees was constantly disrupted. The situation arose in which members of very important government committees took the view that their colleagues would form the quorum when a quorum was called and that they could go on with the important business of the nation. The result was that a quorum was finally called for which the required number of members was not present. 
I do not disagree that on many occasions there should be a better attendance of members in this House. The Whips generally- and I congratulate the honourable member for Hughes on his appointment as Whip of the Opposition- find that it is not always easy to ensure a greater number of members because of the increasing responsibilities that members have outside of the chamber in performing the duties that they have as members of Parliament. But I support the idea that there should be a greater attendance by members more often in this House. I would encourage and recommend that members make an even greater effort to be in this House in the interests of creating a better atmosphere for debates. 
Nevertheless, in all fairness we have to consider the reasons why government supporters were not able to form a quorum on the occasion referred to by the honourable member for Hughes. I might say that I was not one of the members who were not counted. I am very pleased to be able to say that because it enables me to speak more effectively on behalf of those members who were not in this place. As I have pointed out, the members of a number of government committees had to leave their work on a number of occasions to be in the chamber for a quorum to be counted. However, because they wanted to complete their meetings they did not appear in the chamber to be counted on the last occasion a quorum was called. 
I believe that the resolution moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  deserves the support of this Parliament. It will ensure that the House will not be adjourned if a quorum is not obtained. I believe that this is a very good move in the interests of the nation. I believe that the  Speaker  should have the right to decide whether a quorum is available. Excepting for the moment for the sake of argument the claim of the honourable member for Hughes that the responsibility for forming a quorum rests on the shoulders of the government of the day, there is clear evidence to suggest that a quorum could have been formed on the occasion I have mentioned. But the honourable member for Hughes and others continue to berate the Government for the fact that there was not a quorum at that time. 
This resolution allows the business of the nation through the national Parliament to proceed at an earlier time than is possible under present conditions. Having made those few remarks and having put a slightly different point of view from that put by the honourable member for Hughes- I think probably a broader concept of what happened on that occasion- I support the resolution before the House. 
-Tonight I wish to refer to an organisation for which I have a very great admiration, namely, the Isolated Children's Parents Association. Not long ago the  president  of the ICPA was in Canberra, having travelled from south western Queensland to present a case on behalf of the people whom the Association represents. He was accompanied by  Mr Mitchell,  the immediate past  president  of that Association. 
I should like to draw attention to some of the matters that were raised on that occasion with the object of promoting interest in this organisation, the great work it is doing and the sacrifices that are being made by people in the organisation to try to get what is regarded by most people who understand those conditions as equitable treatment. Recently I was listening to an Opposition  speaker  refer to some reduction in some teaching expenditure. It was felt that this factor should be taken into consideration. I refer now to areas where I believe there are probably the most underprivileged people as far as education is concerned that we could find in this country. I should like to mention that when the ICPA was formed in 1971 the deduction allowance for educational expenses was $400. At the same time the fees at a particular boarding school were $1,200 per annum or, to put it another way, the concession was 33 per cent of the actual cost when a student had to live away from home at a boarding school. So many of these children, of course, had to do that. In 1977, the fee at the. same school is $3,300 per annum and rebate is $250, or 7.5 per cent. If a comparison were taken at the time when the $400 was introduced an even greater anomaly would be shown. The ICPA submits that the present rebate of $250 is totally inadequate and needs increasing to an amount compatible with actual boarding school fees, less what it would cost a parent to keep that same child within his own home and to let that child walk across the street to a school of an appropriate level. The Organisation has submitted: 
1 ) that living away from home allowances be not treated as income of the child for taxation purposes for children geographically isolated from educational facilities. ICPA submits that living away from home allowances be treated as scholarships, and be paid direct to the place of boarding. 
That education expenses for rebate purposes be raised to a level compatible with the cost of obtaining that education. 
That the boundaries of zone A and B be redrawn. Zone A to cover the area of Australia as designated by the below 19 inch rainfall isobar area, and buffer area be designated adjacent to this area. ICPA submits that the zone rebates be considerably increased and that such an action would correct the imbalance of access to all facilities, not only educational for all persons residing in geographically isolated regions. 
The problems of those people deserve the utmost consideration, sympathetic treatment of this Government and the sympathetic understanding of the people of Australia. 
-Few speeches have been made in the House which contain more misrepresentations than that made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  The personal explanation made by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  was well taken. I would ask apple growers to examine the statements made by honourable members who speak on behalf of the Government, and what was said by the honourable member for Shortland. Government supporters are happy to have their statements examined. The honourable member for Shortland should not nod his head because that will not get him out of what he has said. 
We want to see in this chamber a better and more accurate presentation of the facts. The misrepresentation goes further because the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on behalf of the Opposition is also a misrepresentation of the actual attitude of the Australian Labor Party. There is no question about that, and a little later in my speech I will show where there has been a change in Labor Party thinking. The Labor Party has simply shown its opportunism in trying to take advantage of something that it heard and that it thought might embarrass Tasmanian members, in particular, on the Government side of the House. But the Opposition has missed out very badly in this respect. I admit that members of the Opposition had their ears close to the ground and picked up this alleged source of embarrassment. On this occasion they have done a little better than usual because mostly they have their heads in the sand. 
The honourable member for Shortland was at some pains to say that the Labor Party could not be blamed for the problems of the apple and pear industry. I say without any equivocation that much of the blame does rest with the Labor Party. I will cite some figures to show just how that has happened. I think it is generally conceded that the apple and pear industries suffer very greatly from rising costs, particularly labour costs. Let us look at what happened during the period in which Labor was in office. At the time Labor took office inflation was running at 4.6 per cent. When it left office inflation was running at 14.1 per cent. Inflation is simply another word for rising costs. This is what has hit the apple and pear industries as well as other primary industries. All industries which are labour intensive were hit very severely over those 3 years in which Labor was in office. The flow-on from that mismanagement and that reckless handling of our economy has been a major factor in the problems that confront the apple and pear industries today. 
It is vitally important to the fruit industry, and consequently to those parts of Australia which depend upon the fruit industry, that support provided under the apple and pear stabilisation scheme should be extended. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government are to be congratulated in this respect. As has been pointed out before, the previous scheme was an interim measure only pending receipt of the final report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the scheme. I commend the Minister and the Government on not accepting the Commission's recommendation that the level of support for apples be at $1 a case and that the scheme itself be terminated at the end of the 1977 season. Yet that is what the Labor Party advocated here only late last year. Anyone interested in the apple and pear industries and who listened to the debate that took place on that occasion would know that that is what happened. 
The stabilisation scheme for apples for the 1977 export season will be based on a maximum level of support of $2 per box for a maximum quantity of 2 million boxes and the support will, of course, apply, as was envisaged in this scheme, only to sales at risk to Europe. I also commend the Government on promoting the supplementary assistance program for 1977 with those States which are prepared to participate in this jointly funded proposal which would provide an additional $lm to assist apple exports. So the Government is concerned and is doing its best to give every assistance it reasonably can. 
The Minister has advised that some State governments have not been inclined to support this additional assistance. I know that the very progressive State of Queensland from a national point of view has accepted this proposal for assistance to the industry because Queensland does not have the volume of exports as do other States. But we are broadminded. We want to see all sections of national industry progress. Therefore we are prepared to accept the proposal. I agree with the Minister that the attitude of those States that are not prepared, or so far have not shown their willingness, to take part shows a very serious lack of concern for the economic problems of fruit growers. 
Support for pears will also apply at the 1976 level, namely 80c per box for a maximum quantity of 1.4 million boxes. I welcome the provision to authorise the payment of advances against seasonal stabilisation payments. This recommendation has been made despite the difficulty of estimating the actual return to growers. The superficial interest- that is a kindly word because it was only a superficial interest- of the Labor Opposition in the problems of the fruit industry is well demonstrated by its amendment. As late as 2 December 1 976-1 referred to this previouslywhich is only a little over 3 months ago, the Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for Blaxland, said: 
The Minister should take notice of the IAC recommendations. 
The IAC recommended only $1 per bushel, and the scheme itself to be terminated at the end of the 1977 season. Those who say that there is no inconsistency in the Labor attitude should have a look at that statement. Let them read those words that were used by the honourable member for Blaxland on 2 December last year. During that debate I drew attention to the fact that the honourable member for Blaxland apparently did not want the Tasmanian people to have a reasonable opportunity to maintain their exports to traditional markets. Despite that attitude we see today this phoney amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition simply and solely to try to capitalise on something that it heard, that is, that Tasmanian representatives would like to see greater assistance given to the apple and pear industries. It is their prerogative to do so. I commend Tasmanian members for trying to get what they feel their industries deserve. It is a matter of opinion as to how much support should be given to particular industries. The Government has the very difficult decision to make as to how much support can be given to industries that are looking for assistance. But Tasmanian members are well within their rights to ask for such assistance. If I were a Tasmanian member of Parliament I too would be looking at the matter from that angle. 
Under this Government Tasmanian exporters to the Australian mainland, including fruit exporters, have gained very great benefit from what is known as the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme. That scheme has caused concern among some mainland growers, particularly among growers in Queensland who have expressed to me their deep concern about the effect that the scheme could have on mainland markets. Against that background it is very necessary to give support to the export apple industry. That is one of the things we have to look at. It is a matter of deciding just what is fair and equitable assistance to give in the light of all the circumstances. But just the same let me say that the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme has been of benefit to Tasmania and it has caused concern among apple growers on the mainland. Certainly, to be fair- I want to be fair- the representative of the Tasmanian apple growers with whom I discussed this matter when he visited Canberra with other apple grower representatives said that the Tasmanian people would take a responsible attitude and they would not flood the market, which would be of course finally to their disadvantage. I accepted the explanation he gave. Nevertheless there is still concern. It is very necessary to have the export price support at least at the level of $2 or twice the amount recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. 
To further prove the point I made previously in reference to the superficial approach of the Opposition and the honourable member for Blaxland, I quote the honourable member for Blaxland as recorded at page 3 1 86 of  Hansard  of 2 December 1976: 
The introduction of the Tasmanian Fruit Equalisation Scheme- 
They are the words he used and they are in  Hansard  for anyone to see. It is an indication that he was not very concerned about the industry, that he did not check what was put in  Hansard  or that he was not aware of what the scheme was. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I simply quoted from  Hansard.  That is what is written in  Hansard.  Honourable members have the opportunity of correcting their  Hansard 'greens  ' if  Hansard  has misinterpreted their remarks. The honourable member could have checked his speech. It should have been checked. What I have quoted is what  Hansard  says, but that is not a very important matter anyway. 
The shallowness of the Opposition's interest is shown in the amendment, which would increase the probable cost of the scheme by some 50 per cent or approximately $2.5m. Honourable members opposite are not very worried about that. They are quite happy to try to take a political advantage irrespective of what the cost might be. Their whole period in government indicated that they have a reckless and extravagant attitude with funds to the great detriment of the whole Australian people, not least of all to the detriment of the people they claim to represent. Their support for the phasing out of the industry as recommended by the IAC was also mentioned by the honourable member for Blaxland. On 4 May he said,  inter alia: 
The Opposition does not oppose the legislation but calls upon the Government to consider sympathetically the plight of small growers in their endeavours to extricate themselves from a declining market situation, particularly in Tasmania and Western Australia and not to string out their misery with the extension of this scheme. 
Where is the consistency? The apple and pear growers of Australia undoubtedly realise that the only hope they have of getting reasonable consideration for their industry is from the sympathetic understanding of the present coalition Government, which has given support to this industry in spite of the program of restraint on Government expenditure that the Government has adopted in the interests of all people. 
My State of Queensland would like to see representatives from every State on the Apple and Pear Corporation to allow the views of all States to be heard in that very important organisation. I would like to see support for such a proposal, but I understand that it is not constitutional. I hope that the organisations will get support for their efforts in doing the work that the Apple and Pear Corporation would be engaged in. As agents for the Corporation, they can be reimbursed. 
Finally I want to say a few words about the importance of marketing in the whole of this setup of providing assistance and support and making the apple and pear industry viable. It is probably a little ambitious to expect it, but if by extensive marketing we could get an increase of 10 per cent in our local market, as I have said before- this would not be impossible but it would be a pretty high level to aim for- it would relieve the strain on export growers and would be of great benefit to the industry. I hope that the Apple and Pear Corporation will direct its attentions to the marketing activities it may be able to undertake. I certainly condemn the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland on behalf of the Opposition. It was a completely phoney amendment. I commend the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government on the Bill. 
-Having listened to the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and his reference to specific learning difficulties I am more than ever convinced that it is not only children who suffer from specific learning difficulties. The Australian Labor Party will never learn; it has not learnt yet. When one listens to the speeches of honourable members opposite one realises that even those 3 years when they were in government- disastrous though they were- have taught them nothing about the operation of a sound economy and the benefits of such an economy to the whole of the Australian people. 
-That could well be true. I support the Appropriation Bills now before the House and the statement of savings in the information paper put out by the Department of Finance and dated 21 April 1977. The Government is now demonstrating its ability to cope with the gigantic task of stemming the tide of galloping inflation and the flow-on from the disastrous economic policies of the previous Labor Government. There is no doubt that the present Government was overwhelmingly returned to office in the nick of time- the right time- to halt the headlong gallop into hopeless debt initiated and further promoted by the Whitlam Government. The Fraser Government has stopped and reduced, and in some areas stopped the enormous spending spree which appeared to be the enjoyable task of those honourable members opposite and which led Australia into one of the biggest financial messes that this country has ever seen. Faced with an enormous and historically high Budget deficit made and left by the Whitlam Government, the Fraser Government has acted responsibly and sensibly in reducing the deficit from some $4800m to about $2600m, and that is no mean achievement. 
This has been done at some cost to popularity because under these circumstances responsible government has to take action which is not popular and I hope that this Government has the courage and determination to continue to take that action until such time as the economy of this country is back to where it ought to be, that is, in a reasonably prosperous condition for the benefit of all Australians. The reduction of the deficit through determination and responsible action has been criticised by a small percentage of people- perhaps a number of people- certainly including the rather small percentage of honourable members who occupy the Opposition benches in this Parliament. 
-As my friend the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  says that is where they will be for a long time to come. The Government 's action in reducing the Budget deficit has taken time. We recognise that. No doubt it has taken longer than the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  or any Government supporter would like to have seen. However, the Government's determination has saved Australians and Australian business thousands of dollars- even it could be said, millions of dollars- in interest rates. If the Government had sought funds overseas to get this country out of the Whitlam economic debt, then we would have been forced to pay very dearly to borrow that money. We have not had to borrow the money because of the economic restraint that has been placed on the economy by this Government and which has been criticised so roundly and solidly by the Opposition. 
It would have had a disastrous effect on ordinary Australians if we had had to borrow that money overseas and businesses would have been forced into borrowing money on the world market at high interest rates. It would have forced interest rates up to astronomical levels if that action had been taken. The Opposition does not seem to realise that interest rates could possibly have reached 20 per cent. What sort of disaster would that have been? That is where Australia was heading before this Government took office. The Government has not had to burden Australians with that type of interest rate and with the dark prospects that that envisages. I would like to see interest rates much lower than they are at the present time. This Government has kept interest rates down to their present levels from the very high rates they would have been if the Government had not come into office. If this Government was not in charge of the Treasury now I would hate to think what would have happened to the ordinary Australian and to business in this country. 
Apart from these very important measures the Liberal-National Country Party Government has been able to save the Australian taxpayer millions of dollars. The reductions in expenditure over the past 16 months have enabled the Government to keep tax collections down. In fact, it has been able to reduce the tax burden through tax indexation. This is not generally accepted but it should be. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has indicated that the Treasury will save more than $98m in 1976-77 and that is shown in Appropriation Bills Nos 3 and 4 which we are debating tonight. Significant savings will be made in the Public Service area because of reductions in staff numbers. Administrative costs will be lower. For instance, the administration costs for the Department of Primary Industry will be reduced by some $396,000. This is an area in which I am very interested and in which I have been engaged for most of my life. So, the Government is prepared to undertake restraint right across the board. In the Department of Overseas Trade there will be a saving of some $5.9m. In the Treasury the saving will be $1 1.4m and in the Department of Transport the saving will be $ lm, to name but a few. 
We are dependent on private enterprise for a large proportion of our employment. There has been a nervousness among investors which has to be overcome. The progress is slow, which is understandable when one thinks of the way in which the Labor Government wrecked the economy during its 3 years in office. People have had to be assured that the present Government can restore the economy. We have certainly faced a colossal task in bringing the Budget closer to a balance. That is our objective. We have found opportunities to further our economic philosophy, which hinges on private enterprise. Anyone who realises the importance of private enterprise will understand that this is where a high percentage of employment opportunities lie. In promoting private enterprise we are endeavouring to create employment opportunities for the Australian people. The Government has restored no less than $ 1,000m to corporate and wages sectors through taxation reform. This has been done to allow the private sector to grow. That is our objective. 
The groundswell for recovery is now apparent. In the half year to December 1976 company profits grew by more than one-third. That is a fair reply to those who say that we have not made any progress in that area. As a share of non-farm national product, profits recovered to nearly 15 per cent from their low point of about 1 1  Vi  per cent reached during 1 974-75. 
-Farm profits have increased to some extent but they have not increased as much as we would like. Certainly if the honourable member's Party had been in office they would be much worse than they are today, because the Labor Party has not the slightest sympathy for the farm sector. It has always been the same. There is not a semblance of sympathy for primary industry on the other side of the House. There never has been and there is not likely to be unless honourable members opposite change their attitudes. 
In the December quarter of 1976, compared with the same quarter of 1975, expenditure in real terms on dwellings was up 20 per cent. This is another area of national importance in which we are interested. Expenditure in real terms on plant and equipment was up 1 8 per cent and personal consumption in real terms was up 4 per cent. All this growth occurred despite a reduction in real government spending. Honourable members opposite said that that growth would not occur and that it could not occur, yet it is occurring. That growth was achieved in the private sector. In the farm sector, which has been mentioned, we have introduced a system of income equalisation deposits to smooth out some of the income peaks and troughs which are inherent in the agricultural sector and which adversely affect individual farmers' investment plans. We are continuing to support the apple and pear industries through stabilisation. A new rural adjustment scheme has been introduced. Carry-on loans, debt reconstruction and farm build-up have been continued. Rehabilitation assistance has been increased and household support introduced. It had to be introduced to counteract the drastic effects of the policies of the previous Government. The fruit growing reconstruction scheme has been extended and the conditions relaxed. In the beef industry, which has suffered very severely, substantial assistance has been made available to assist beef producers, including $ 15m for carry-on loans and the suspension of the Labor imposed meat export inspection charge. That is the sort of thing Labor introduced. 
-As my friend from Paterson says, they priced us out of the overseas market. This action is estimated to save producers some $35m this financial year. An amount of $ 18.5m has been allocated to tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaigns, not only to the benefit of producers but also to the benefit of Australia as a whole. Slaughter compensation was introduced for the first time. With respect to wheat the Government has increased the first advance to $66 per tonne or $1.80 per bushel for this financial year, which is an increase of 20 per cent on the previous year. I wonder whether the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  wants to hear more of this or whether he has had enough. He is very quiet now. These are some of the initiatives that this Government has taken in the short time in which it has been in office. The Appropriation Bills now before the House will allow the Government to continue the successful progress upon which it has embarked, ultimately to get the economy of the country back on a sound basis, to the benefit of every Australian- a benefit which a country having the natural resources that we have should be enjoying. It is high time that we did enjoy them, too. There has been an agreement on meat classification by the Agricultural Council - 
-I hear some silly noises on the side. There has been an agreement - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! Firstly, the honourable member for Chifley is out of his seat and, secondly, all interjections are out of order. I know the honourable member for Maranoa is being a trifle provocative but I suggest that the honourable member for Chifley should try to restrain himself. 

-A classification scheme will give producers of beef true returns for their cattle. So honourable members will see that it is important that beef producers get behind their organisations to implement a classification scheme as soon as possible. It was announced this week by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Government has endorsed proposals submitted by him for an Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation to replace the present Australian Meat Board. No doubt there will be some criticism that the Corporation will not be completely producer controlled, but I hope that we will look at the total construction of the proposed Corporation before these criticisms are fully developed. 
-That is correct. Although the bulk of the present functions and powers of the Meat Board will be retained by the Corporation, there will be some significant changes. In other areas of primary industry the Government has introduced a special deduction of $50,000 to apply where an interest in an estate passes to a surviving spouse. That is a very effective measure to try to protect those people who have made some savings during their lifetime. That should be encouraged. In the case of the estate of a primary producer passing wholly to a surviving spouse, the estate will be completely free of duty if valued at $98,000 or less. In family allowances the Government has introduced allowances payable for each child under 16 years of age, or under 25 years of age if receiving full time education. This is a great help as most country families are bigger than those in city areas and have difficulties of distance that do not apply in the cities. We have extended the eligibility for unemployment benefit to farmers suffering financial hardship who have registered for the benefit. I wonder whether the honourable member for Grayndler is still interested in what we are doing for the farmers. 
An additional $ 100m has been provided since February this year to bring expenditure on roads in rural areas during 1975-76 to some $260m. Roads are a vital necessity in all areas of Australia. Despite the Government's prime objective of restraining expenditure and thereby lowering inflation, it is still increasing its allocation for road building. That is something for which we should be grateful. For example, it is intended to increase the allocation for roads by $38.3m in 1977-78 over the level of funds provided for this financial year. There is a very great need for local government to be assisted even more than at present, preferably in my opinion by way of an increase in the percentage of income tax being allocated to local government. This is demonstrated by the fact that in many rural areas at least rate charges have reached saturation point and have become an increasingly heavy burden, particularly on those rural industries still struggling to survive. 
We have extended free telephone installation in country areas to a distance of 12 kilometres instead of 8 kilometres. Might I remind the Opposition that when we were in government previously we were prepared to extend that limit to 24 kilometres to enable people who could not afford to pay something like $5,000 for a phone to be provided with such a service. But when the Labor Government came to office the limit was brought straight back to 8 kilometres. We have now extended it to 12 kilometres. 
-As the honourable member says, shame on them. We have provided $50m to help finance relief measures for primary producers. Apart from these very important measures the Liberal-National Country Party Government has been able to save millions of dollars for the Australian taxpayers. The measures that have been introduced certainly have been across the board. I have mentioned primary industry specifically because in the course of this debate many people have referred to other aspects. We have faced colossal tasks in dealing with the whole problem that was before us. No doubt we will have to face those sorts of tasks in the future. I am surprised that the Opposition has not recognised the necessity for the improvement of our economy for the benefit of all people. The people who are most adversely affected-I heard this phrase used earlier-by a disrupted economy are the people in the lower income bracket. Those are the people we are trying to help, as well as the rest of the Australian community, by our economic policy. I know something about that area. I was not born with a silver spoon in my mouth. I know some of the problems which are confronting those people who live on low incomes. It is because of that that we have continued to try to provide an economy which will enable the living standards of this country first of all to be stabilised and then improved. 
Until such time as the Opposition recognises that there cannot be an increased standard of living without increased productivity, it will never learn. That is the real basis upon which an increased standard of living can be provided. All Opposition members worry about is pleasing their bosses, the people to whom they have to kow-tow all the time. They are a small section of union leaders who are more concerned with promoting their own positions in the unions than they are with the benefit of the people whom they are supposed to represent. I compliment the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  who is sitting at the table at the moment, for saying that the trade unions are the real Opposition today. That is an indictment. I give him great credit for having the courage to be able to present that unpleasant truth to his colleagues who sit behind him in the Parliament. That is a fact. As was pointed out in some of the leading articles in the Press today, it is not due to the fact that there are smaller numbers in the Opposition. It is due to the very poor performance of those people who sit on the other side of the House. This has been clearly demonstrated. The Opposition has a full shadow Ministry which should be able to cope. It has the forms of the House to use if it has criticisms of this Government. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is prepared to say that the trade union movement is the real opposition in this country today, that is an admission which, I think, should be highlighted. 
One of the actions the Labor Party took was to get rid of some of the better Ministers it had. I believe that my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  did quite a good job in his portfolio. What reward did he get for it? Where is the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  sitting today? He is on the very back bench after doing a very good job in the education ministry by comparison with other Labor Ministers. I hope that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will remember that. If he is doing a good job within the Labor Party, he is likely to be moved out of the front bench and on to the back bench. It is studded with such people. The reward for doing a good job for the Labor Party apparently is to be relegated to the back benches. My friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh is smiling very broadly. He realises the great work he did for his Party not only in the Parliament but outside it. He solved many problems for the Party.  His  reward was to be sent to the back bench while people of lesser quality took his place on the front bench. 
I support the Appropriation Bills now before the House I hope that, through them, the Australian people will realise what a good job this Government is doing and that they will have the sound common sense to keep this Government in office for years to come so that the economy may be returned to the condition in which it ought to be to enable Australians to enjoy the standard of prosperity that our resources should enable us to enjoy. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, who is Acting Leader of the National Country Party, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Banks with reference to the National Country Party. Can the Minister advise whether there is any truth in the allegation that the National Country Party has received funds from overseas sources, with particular reference to the source mentioned by the honourable member for Banks? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware of the growing demand from people living in areas where television reception is unavailable or unsatisfactory for another stage of expansion of television in those areas? Can the Minister advise the House what progress is being made towards the provision of this amenity to those areas which suffer so severely by comparison with the very high proportion of Australians now receiving satisfactory television reception? Finally, does the establishment of a satellite for this purpose offer the ultimate in providing television in isolated areas across Australia and, if so, what action does the Government intend to take in this regard? 
I also support this Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2 ) because I believe it is very necessary. The purpose of the Bill is to strengthen the position of the Australian Wool Corporation in freight negotiations and to assist it in co-ordinating economics in transport operations. There can be no doubt that one of the great problems confronting any industry is that of continually increasing costs. This Government should do anything it can to enable a corporation such as the Australian Wool Corporation to promote better transport arrangements. Great efforts should be made in this area and credit should be given to this Government for doing what it can to assist the Corporation in its desire to try to cut costs wherever possible. 
I believe that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  expressed some misunderstandings when he made his remarks about this Bill. I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will consult with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and that they will give the Corporation policy guidelines in advance of any negotiations that are to be held. There will be co-operation and consultation on the part of those two Ministers and that is what we would expect. That is the way a government should work. When two ministries are involved in an operation there should be the closest cooperation between them. I believe that this Bill is an example of that co-operation. 
This Bill will enable the Government to continue its support for wool research and promotion. Appropriations for this support will be made annually instead of on a triennial basis. This matter has been raised in this debate. Comments have been made about the advantages and disadvantages of having these funds made available on an annual or triennial basis. There are points for and against. The fact that funds are made available annually does not necessarily mean that it is detrimental to the continuation of research. This Government has put control of the inflationary trend foremost in its operations and the future of the industry should be looked at carefully. If funds were provided on a triennial basis we would not have the flexibility that is available when funding is on an annual basis. The people concerned would be committed for the two years following the year in which the allocation had been made. I admit, however, that indications would be given as to what funds would be available in those succeeding years. This Government wants to continue, beyond any shadow of a doubt, the research program and this alteration in funding will provide it with flexibility. This will give it an advantage in enabling the programs mentioned by the honourable member for Corio to be continued with even greater security than would have been the case if those programs had received a fixed amount triennially. 
This amending Bill will also give the Australian Wool Corporation the authority to set conditions for the carriage and handling of wool for export. That is a point with which I want to deal. These measures will give strength and power to the Corporation in negotiating for the industry which has suffered many setbacks in the past. The wool industry, in common with many other primary industries, has gone through some very serious difficulties. It has always had to face up to a world market price. In this country, as in many other countries, costs have risen substantially and there has not been much that the Government has had to do for the industry. Certainly at times some funds have been provided. I well recall what happened when the reserve price plan was being brought in and some $60m was provided for it. Even supporters of the Government to whom I spoke expressed very great concern about the full amount of money having to be provided to support the reserve price plan for wool. In fact, in the course of time that was not the case. But it was of great advantage to every Australian to have this industry kept on the more stable footing that the reserve price plan was able to give to it. 
The wool industry can take very great credit for the way in which it has been able to handle its own affairs. If it were left to handle its own affairs and did not have to worry about the interference that unfortunately sometimes occurs it would be able to do even better. One has only to consider the way in which the exports of live sheep have been restricted because of the dictates of people who have no right to dictate to appreciate what this has meant. These exports have been of very great benefit and are a well deserved benefit to many people in the sheep industry. Unfortunately they have been kept in line and have had to conform to the conditions laid down in relation to exports. These people need the benefits that are being obtained as a result of the export of live sheep, but the obtaining of that benefit has been restricted. I believe that it has been restricted to an unnecessary degree. When one has an industry that is prospering one has an industry that is able to provide employment, which is to the benefit of the working man. Sometimes a very short-sighted policy is adopted in relation to the operations of our primary industries. 
The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  mentioned the rise in costs. I agree with him that is one of our great troubles. I can only hope that we will be able to get the sort of co-operation from the Opposition benches that is needed to enable us to control inflation. Instead of harping continually on what the Government is trying to do and instead of continually criticising the efforts that are being made to help to reduce the constantly rising costs, if the Opposition were to co-operate with the Government insofar as rising costs are concerned it would be of very great benefit to the people whom the honourable member for Darling and I represent. 
Let me return to the Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry said: 
The Government is determined to achieve close coordination over a range of cargoes in the negotiation of freight rates so that Australia may maintain the best possible bargaining position. 
That is of vital importance. He went on to say: 
To this end, and in consultation with the Minister for Transport - 
This refers to the point that I made - 
I will be informing the Australian Wool Corporation of the principles and policies which the Government regards as appropriate to be applied and followed in any freight negotiations the Corporation undertakes. These will be designed to ensure that marine freight rates and services for all commodities are determined to the best advantage of rural industries. 
That is something that I think has to be carefully looked at. I believe that when we are looking at the freight rates with regard to the goods produced by the industries of this country we have to see that we have a continuity of transport. We do not want to have hold-ups. One of the problems that we have in our shipping and transport industry is the fact that there have been far too many hold-ups, which are to the disadvantage of primary industry and to the disadvantage of the reputation of Australia as a supplier of any commodity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that the Government's attitude to the Industries Assistance Commission in relation to the protection of secondary industry generally is causing concern to rural export industries? Does the Government's attitude mean that a full and careful examination of the cost of protection to secondary industry will be restricted? Does it mean that the Government is not concerned about the costs being carried by rural export industries and the beef industry in particular? 
-We have just listened to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who seemed to wander a bit. He also seemed very concerned about the situation in Victoria and asked us to prove that money was provided under the Bill. I think the boot should have been on the other foot. If he is complaining about money not being provided under the Bill he should prove that that is the case. This Bill is part of the package of finance for the States distributed by the Commonwealth Government. One cannot but be critical of the incessant clamouring of State governments and State politicians about the limitation of funds to the States by the Federal Government. These unjust and ill-founded utterances should be put to rest once and for all. There is far too much complaint from the States about the funds they get from the Commonwealth. Under this BUI, which owes its existence to arrangements formulated by Liberal-National Country Party governments in years gone by, the States will receive an injection of some $477.933m as a straight out grant. There is ho interest payable on it. There is no repayment and there is  jo  control. The States have complete autonomy in regard to what they do with this money. It is part of the total Loan Council program of $ 1,433.8m for the year 1 977-78. 
The States will receive under tax sharing legislation announced in the Budget $4,336.1m, an increase of $62 lm or 16.8 per cent on the previous year. Yet the Opposition in its amendment claims that in real terms this is reducing the funds available to the States. How can that properly be claimed under the circumstances? When one takes into account Loan Council programs and other special grants to the States, total general purpose grants to the States are estimated to increase by $685. lm in 1977-78. This again is contradiction of the amendment moved by the Opposition. All State governments therefore should be able to bring down Budgets which will provide maximum services without any increase in State taxation either direct or indirect. In fact the States get a very good deal from the Commonwealth Government although they do not always acknowledge it. They do not have any excuse if their objectives cannot be achieved in a reasonable time. No State government needs to be comprised of financial wizards to make its budget balance in view of the generosity of the Commonwealth Government- and that should be emphasised- a generosity which has to be maintained under very difficult financial circumstances. 
Under this BUI every possible consideration has been extended to the States. It allocates money without an interest component. The grant component was introduced because of a realisation by the Commonwealth Government that some State government responsibilities do not attract any income and it is reasonable that the States should get money free of interest to service those responsibilities. In this regard we can mention the money spent on education, on the provision of schools and police stations. They are what might be termed essential needs in a modern era. Interest is charged on other Loan Council programs by virtue of the fact that money expended by State governments on such things as power houses and dams does attract a financial return. An examination of Budget Paper No. 6 for the years 1976-77 and 1977-78 reveals some other interesting facts. In 1976-77 the securities on issue on account of the States per head of population at 30 June 1976 were as follow: In New South Wales $770.64; in Victoria $766.18; in Queensland $762.74; in South Australia $1,1 17.15; in Western Australia $952.95; and in Tasmania $1,837, giving an average debt of $848.94. 
The annual interest liability per head, State by State, was: New South Wales, $54.58; Victoria, $54.40; Queensland, $52.80; South Australia, $80.09; Western Australia, $68.05; and Tasmania $130.90. That means an average interest of $60.14 per head. There was an increase in 1977 both in the amounts and in the interest. For example, the average interest went up from $60.14 to $65.53, showing that a lot of money is being invested in Government bonds. This is partly due to the fact that this money is made available to the States. Notwithstanding the fact that the Commonwealth gives money to the States free of interest as a grant, under the conditions which I have just enumerated, it is disturbing to note that people in all States have this increasing amount of funds going into bonds and, consequently, an increasing debt through the Commonwealth to Australian bond holders. I hope to see an expansion of investment in enterprises which will provide employment and generally increase the welfare of the community as a whole. 
Similarly, in Budget Paper No. 6, Table No. 8, we find that total securities on issue per head of population, as far as the Commonwealth Government's debt to Australian bond holders is concerned, shows an increase from $647.50 per head as at 30 June 1976 to $795.65 per head as at 30 June 1977. The point I am making is the need for the Government to try to make conditions available which will attract that money into other avenues of investment. Unless we of the free enterprise parties do something to reverse this trend of investment in bonds, we are failing in the trust which has been placed in us by those who owe their allegiance to our political philosophy. Quite obviously the Government has to create an environment which will maximise the opportunities for people to invest in private enterprise with the hope of reward and not allow their funds to be used to a significant degree in the manner in which I have just been talking about, that is, to be used by the Government again for other developments. It is much better for the community at large to have this money flowing through private enterprise investment. 
We have to create an environment where people will take risks in creating job opportunities by allowing them a reasonable chance of a reward for effort expended and risks undertaken. This is something which the Opposition will never concede. Honourable members opposite say that if there is a falling off in expenditure and labour in the private enterprise section, they will make that up with Government enterprise. That has been a great failure. It was a tragic failure in the years when Labor was in office. We as a Government have a responsibility to accept the challenge to carefully examine ways of improving productivity and, consequently, competitiveness. State governments must also be made aware of this. There should be general cooperation in this area. I want to be critical of a growing feeling in many areas of Australia of a point of view which calls upon the Government to provide all types of services. The Opposition when it was in government encouraged too much dependence on the Government. That is something we should try to overcome. It is not easy, but we should make the attempt. My political philosophy leads me firmly to the point of view that what we want is more initiative, more Australians paying their own way and less government interference in the basic responsibilities of the individual. There should be less union interference and fewer trivial and unjustified strikes. 
Governments should be providing only the foundation for development for the Australian people. The people should supply the basic framework and build on that under a free enterprise system. 
This Bill goes part of the way in decreasing the amount of interest paid by State governments. Again, this is contrary to the amendment moved by the Opposition. One of the thrusts of the Budget, of course, is to reduce interest rates. A deficit of reasonable proportions, such as this year's deficit, is the catalyst which will allow interest rates to decrease. This is something which the Australian Labor Party Government never recognised and does not seem to recognise now. Australia has been pricing itself out of world markets. Interest has been a contributing factor to this. The statistical bulletin put out by the Reserve Bank of Australia in June 1976 shows that the interest rate in June 1973 was 7.75 per cent for trading bank overdraft and that increased to 9.5 per cent in June 1 974 and to 1 1.5 per cent in June 1975, the last year of the Whitlam regime. It is interesting to note that in February 1976, a few months after the FraserAnthony Government was returned to office with an overwhelming majority of support from the Australian people-that showed Labor supporters what the people thought of their type of government- interest rates were reduced to 10.5 per cent per annum. Quite obviously this is intolerably high. It has mitigated against people being able to compete in international markets. 
-The rate was 11.5 per cent under your Government; do not forget that. This high interest rate has denied many young Australians the opportunity to purchase their own homes and to purchase some of the comforts of life which allow people to absorb the tremendous pressures exerted by modern living; and that is what this Government aims to do. Actions speak louder than words. We take action. We get words from the other side, but no action. The Whitlam Government quite obviously had an infectious enthusiasm for huge deficits in the Budget with correspondingly regular increases in interest rates. The Fraser-Anthony Government did reduce interest rates and I believe that the time is appropriate for further reductions. 
This Bill is positive proof that relationships between the State and the Commonwealth governments should be a partnership. A partnership automatically denotes a share of responsibility. Some of the States appear to me to look upon a partnership as something which allows them to have a vice like grip on the right to have uncontrolled spending, and absolute right to criticise this Government without having to act responsibly because they get money that is collected by this Government. For too long too many of them have been telling the community loud and long about all they would do if only they could get more money from the Federal Government. I ask honourable members to bear in mind that the Federal Government has reduced the deficit from $4.5 billion to $2.2 billion in an endeavour to get this country's economy back on to a reasonably sound basis. 
Under a Bill which has been introduced into the Parliament- the Income Tax (Arrangements with the States) Bill 1977- all the States have the right to raise their own taxes but they will not do this because it is not politically advantageous to do so. It is about time they gave up blaming the Commonwealth Government for being unable to accede to the insatible demands of their electors. For too long they have avoided telling the people that increased services can be provided only through increased taxation. They have avoided telling the people that. That is what they should be telling the people. It is not good enough to blame the Commonwealth. As partners they must also share the responsibility. I deplore the attitudes of some of the State governments in their approach to this responsibility. We are not a federalist government but I suggest to some of the States that, if they want to be partners in a truly co-operative federal system, they also have a responsibility to live within their Budgets and to prune their expenditure so that our greatest problem- inflation- can be controlled. We must bring back into the Australian political community some blunt, straight forward honesty in assessing what can and what cannot be done. 
The Federal Government has indicated to the States in this Bill that it realises the many pressing problems the States have. State governments are a lot better off than they were last year. This is a contradiction to the amendment moved by the Opposition because the States have received increased amounts. The Commonwealth, nevertheless, has contained its spending. It has set an example and it will continue to do that. When we go to the people again the false hopes that Opposition supporters have that they might win some of the seats on this side at which they look so enviously will be dissipated. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill and opposing this amendment which is in every aspect quite the opposite to what the Bill proposes. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  seems to have an obsession with companies that make a profit. The word 'obsession' seems to be the in word today. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  also has an obsession about public declarations being made in relation to funds which are given to political parties. The present system has served Australia well over the years, and it will continue to serve it well. The red herrings that members of the Labor Party want to draw across the trail indicate only that they have not anything worth while in the way of a policy on which they can base a criticism of the Government. They must bring on for debate such old things as that which the honourable member for Port Adelaide has been rehashing for years on end. He has never gained any benefit from it, and he never will. So they never learn. 
He has raised today as a matter of public importance the matter of assistance given by corporations and individuals to political parties and candidates. He has done so not really so that the Parliament and the people of Australia will benefit from that knowledge but so that the Labor Party can look into its own affairs, because it has been excluded from receiving such funds quite often. The loans affair and the commissions attached to the loans affair were pretty good examples of that. Perhaps the Labor Party might be better employed on looking at the questions of where the commissions on those loans intended to go. Was the Labor Party going to benefit from them or were individuals going to benefit? Where were the commissions intended to go? That is the sort of matter that might be worth ventilating. 
The sort of proposal contained in this matter of public importance has been raised before. It makes it very clear to Australians that the Labor Party is determined to destroy people's privacy. That is what it wants to do. Eventually it wants to turn Australia into a one party country. That is the Labor Party's aim. If this proposition were accepted members of the Labor Party would learn some of the things that go on inside their own Party. They would know of the commitments their own people are making behind their backs. So one probably can understand why they would want such a proposal introduced. 
The Labor Party has harped constantly on this issue, as I have mentioned. It suggests to me that this is not an honest move but that it is aimed at providing a means for revenge. The sort of philosophy contained in this matter of public importance was rejected overwhelmingly by the Australian people because it is a proposal which was put forward before the last elections. The people had an opportunity to decide whether they wanted a Labor government with the sort of proposal which it espouses today. 
I say to those members of the Labor Party who have spoken in this debate that as a senior member of the Australian Country Party, as it used to be known in Queensland for many years, I know only too well that the finances raised for our Party have been gathered by means of comparatively small donations, by party branches in electorates making small levies and by the running of functions. It is from those sources that the main part of our funds come, if honourable members opposite want to know. I know that from personal experience, and honourable members opposite cannot deny it. They are only guessing when they suggest that our funds come from multinational corporations and all the other people that they label. It is a guess that they are making. They hope that they will get some publicity from that guess. They have been rejected already by the Australian people. 
If the Opposition wants a little further information on that matter, in my electorate of Maranoa money for electoral purposes has always been obtained from inside the electorate. Money has been given to our head office as well. There are no multinational corporations in that area. This statement applies to practically all the well organised electorates which are held by members of my party. I have no doubt the same situation applies in the Liberal Party as well. 
The little people give it. The Opposition wants to expose them. Why? 
-He cannot hear me. He cannot hear the message of the Australian people either. That is one thing which the Opposition did not want to hear. Assistance is given by our organisation to candidates who do not have the same degree of organisation in their electorates, certainly, but that money is being raised by the organisation. We are raising it now in Queensland. That is the State which I know well. That is the situation which applies there. We are having fun trying to get the money we require to run an election. Do not make any mistake about that. We do not have an open sesame to any multinational company to ask it for funds. Those companies do not give away money as easily as that. 
-Or the trade unions, as my friends from Wimmera and Darling Downs said. One could query why the Labor Party wants this information. Does it want to intimidate the people who give contributions to any party other than the Labor Party? It is not renowned for condemning intimidation in other fields. The Labor Party might feel that intimidation could be effectively applied in the political arena. It does not do anything about condemning intimidation in any area at all. It has never done so and is not likely to do so. Having that background, is not it reasonable to assume that perhaps the Labor Party would like to apply intimidation to smaller people who, of their own volition, give funds to the political party of their choice? Surely every person in this country has the right to support the political party of his choice. Surely he does not have to blazon it everywhere, to be criticised and condemned by other people who think he should not have done so. 
I think the Labor Party has not clearly thought out all the problems that would arise from this proposal. Does it feel that the inequities created by this legislation would affect all other parties and not it? The honourable member for Port Adelaide should have had more insight into these problems than he has demonstrated today. He has been engaged in organising a political party. He should know better. He should know the problems that would flow from this proposal. It is well known that this Government is not automatically opposed to the principle of some form of disclosure. These proposals need to be clearly and thoroughly thought out. The Labor Party is too impatient in these matters. Its attitude, its impatience and its half thought-out measures have already cost Australia dearly. After almost a century of democratic vote recording the Labor Party would, in one stroke, remove the secrecy from the ballot box. It seems that the Labor Party is totally ignoring the provision already in the Commonwealth Electoral Act which requires candidates, political parties, bodies such as trade unions, associations and persons who have expended sums in connection with an election to file a return on expenditure. 
The legislation which the Labor Party is promoting strikes at the very core of the democratic nature of the Australian people. We do not mind the Labor Party having a close look at its leaders ' cheque books if it wants to, but it has the hide to want a law to be passed which would enable it to look at everybody else's cheque books. This seems very contradictory, when it cannot even get a glimpse of its own leaders' cheque books. I refer to the loans affair. The legislation is well on the road to denying to the Australian people freedom of speech and freedom on private matters. The legislation will effectively expose individual support for a particular political party. 
Is this really what the Labor Party wants? How will it use this information? That is the question. That is the point that worries me. 
What happens to the levies paid to unions? The Labor Party is quite happy about the compulsory acquisition of funds through union dues from people who are very strongly opposed to it. Those people have never tried to get this very great wrong rectified. They have taken no part in that at all. The Labor Party collects these funds from the unions. People must contribute to the unions. Very many people in the unions who do not express publicly their objection do object. There should be a regulation which provides that union funds which are acquired compulsorily should be used for union purposes and that funds which would be devoted to political parties should be on a voluntary contribution basis. 
If members of the Labor Party do not agree with that proposal let them say so. Let them say that they are not prepared to support that proposal. That would be a democratic way of doing things. That is what the honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Blaxland should be doing, instead of trying to draw attention to this matter. They think they can make a few headlines by bringing up this matter again. They are trying to draw the attention of the people away from the very poor record that the Labor Party had in government. When they were in government they did everything they could, as they are trying to do today, to suggest that no company should make a profit. They are suggesting that profit is a dirty word. They forget that 75 per cent of the jobs of Australian people come from private enterprise. Unless we have profits we do not have jobs. That was the economic approach that the Labor Party adopted. The sound economy that it inherited when it came into power was wrecked. That is what caused the great rise in inflation and the great rise in unemployment, and the flow on from that mismanagement of the Australian economy still continues. 
Let them look at what the Labor Party is doing. Let them look particularly at how it gets funds from compulsory contributions to unions. The unionists have no say as to where those funds go. The executives have a say. They decide where the funds will go. The individuals must contribute. There have been some instances in which people have been criticised for saying that they did not want to contribute. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion ( by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) agreed to: 
That Government Business be called on. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  again got on his hobby horse which he has been riding for quite a long time. He seems to have only the one horse to ride. He is not making a very good job of it. He would be a very poor jockey. I should not like to back anything he was riding in the Melbourne Cup. He talked about the seven hours which were wasted yesterday and claimed that part of the reason for that time being wasted was that the Opposition had not had an opportunity to see the document. In fact, the document was tabled in the Senate; so there would have been plenty of opportunity for Opposition members to have studied that document. They would not need to have been geniuses to know that that was the same document as was presented yesterday because the document was talked about; it was known as the Fischer document. It had been tabled in the Senate. It was available to the Labor Party. To try to get out from under by saying they had not seen the document was only an excuse. I do not accept that as an excuse. 
The time that was wasted yesterday was wasted as a result of an endeavour to stop the matter from being raised as a matter of public interest in this House. The waste of time rests clearly on the shoulders of the Labor Party. Had its members been prepared to accept the document when it was tabled and to have left it at that, none of this would have happened. As it was tabled in the Senate, why was there any difference? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no point of order. I accept the first part of the comments of the honourable member for Maranoa but not as they relate to the decision of  Mr Speaker. 
I am not reflecting on the Chair. I just said that if the Labor Party had not objected the document would have been tabled and that would have been the end of it. Those are the facts. I refer to the situation with regard to funds, of which the honorable member for Port Adelaide made such play. I emphasise that the funds that are received by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party come to them voluntarily; there are no strings attached. The Labor Party has to kotow to the leaders in the union movement for their funds or else it is in real trouble because that is where a lot of its funds come from. That is the big difference. 
I had proposed to talk this morning about the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I shall do so now. The operations of the Telecommunications Commission are very important in my electorate, as they are in all outlying areas. They are important everywhere, but there is a particular need for the development of telecommunication services in the outlying areas. I shall read one of the duties of the Commission, among a number, and its functions. I cannot go through them all, but one of its duties is as follows: 
The Commission shall perform its functions in such a manner as will best meet the social, industrial and commercial needs of the Australian people for telecommunications services and shall, so far as it is, in its opinion, reasonably practicable to do so, make its telecommunications services available throughout Australia for all people who reasonably require those services. 
I know that the Telecommunications Commission is limited by the funds that are made available to it and that those funds have been reduced. It has to find some 50 per cent of the cost of capital works. Nevertheless, the fact remains that we do need a telecommunications service thoughout the nation. If there is to be some further Treasury subvention, if some alteration is to be made to the duties or the functions of the Commission, then I ask the Minister and the Government to look very carefully at that matter. I shall continue to outline the functions of the Commission: 
In performing its functions in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) the Commission- 
b) Shall have regard to- 
the desirability of improving and extending its telecommunications services in the light of developments in the field of communications; 
I congratulate the Government on the interest that it has taken in that area and on the progress that has been made in the area of satellite communications. The Commission shall also have regard to this matter. 
ii) the need to operate its services as efficiently and economically as practicable; 
That is a very good thing, but it is not possible to operate an economic service in the outlying areas of this country. That should not mean that those areas should be deprived of that service, because telecommunications generally has to be looked at from the point of view of both economic operation and service to the community. The final matter to which the Commission shall have regard is this: 
the special needs for telecommunications services of Australian people who reside or carry on business outside of the cities. 
So that is clearly laid down in the functions of the Commission. Although I have mentioned the factors to which the Commission should give consideration, that factor must not be lost sight of. The Minister would know that he has ministerial control over the Commission. He would know that he may, after consultation with the Commission, give to the Commission in writing such directions, with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers, as appear to the Minister to be necessary in the public interest. The Minister has a responsibility, as does the Government, to try to limit expenditure with the object of controlling inflation. That is a matter of priorities, and I urge the Minister to give it consideration. I am sure that he would be sympathetic to the suggestion that he should give a higher priority to the aspect of government control of our economy, and indeed, of our communications services. It should be noted also that alterations to charges for services may be made only with the approval of the Minister. It is another matter for congratulation that we have been able to hold these charges in spite of the rising costs. That is to the credit of the Minister and to the Government. I am very happy to be able to pay a tribute to the Minister because it is something for which the Government can take some credit. 
One thing that is not usually realised is how the Commission operates in an endeavour to carry out its functions and duties. The Commission presently provides free installation of telephone lines to all subscribers who live within 12 kilometres of an automatic telephone exchange. That represents an enormous benefit to those people. It is a wonderful setup for them. The Commission provides that service to approximately 97 per cent of telephone subscribers in this country, and that represents an enormous number of people. Why then should the other 3 per cent of subscribers have to pay those unbearable costs involved in installing a telephone? If a subscriber is 20 miles away- I think the equivalent is 30 kilometres- he has to pay something like $6,000 over three years at bank rate of interest to have a telephone installed. If a subscriber lived 32 kilometres from a telephone exchange he would have to pay some $6,400 or proportionately less as the distance is reduced. Under present conditions in the rural industry these charges are definitely beyond the capacity of many people to pay and they represent an extremely difficult financial burden on many other people. 
I have put a proposition to the Commission, of which the Minister would be aware. In the absence of free line installation for a distance of 24 kilometres, which the Government did at one time allow and which I contend should still apply, I submitted to the Commission the following plan in relation to the payment for line construction: 
Interest free loans be provided for subscribers to meet the cost of line construction. The repayment of such loans to be spread over a period of five years but not to exceed $500 annually and where necessary the period of repayment should be extended to meet this maximum annual repayment of $500. 
I have time to read only the last two paragraphs of the reply from the Telecommunications Commission: 
There must be a limit, though, to the extent to which capital investment and operating expenses can be incurred in rural areas without affecting the level of service and facilities provided in the more closely settled areas where the need for telephone service is just as great and, from the Commission's viewpoint, certainly more profitable. 
Having regard to Telecom Australia's overall commitments, it is regretted that the way is not clear to adopt your suggestion that the existing instalment scheme be extended to provide for longer term interest free loans. However, I would like to assure you that the policy governing the provision of rural telephone services is kept under regular review and the Commission will not hesitate to introduce any further modifications that are found to be practicable. 
The only thing I want to say about all that is that I challenge the statement that the need is just as great in the metropolitan areas. I know that telephone services are essential for business. I know that people need to have a telephone service in the metropolitan areas. I believe that the cities and the country areas have to work together. We do not want to deny the city areas reasonable access to telephone services, but I submit that their need is not as great. The need in the more isolated areas is greater. I believe that the people who live in the isolated areas have greater social problems. Honourable members should imagine the position of the people who live in isolated areas. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I think we can assure the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  that neither this Bill nor this amendment will affect any medical schools in Newcastle, in Melbourne or in any other place about which he spoke. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  spoke of the massive funding needs of education. One of the reasons why those massive needs exist is that the Labor Government in its last Budget reduced spending on schools by some $44m. Naturally that had a bearing on the existing massive needs in the field of education. The Government is endeavouring to cope with that situation in the Bill. The amendment which has been moved by the Opposition will not make any major difference to the Bill at all, except perhaps, as the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  said- it is a very minor thing- that it may have an adverse or disadvantageous effect, if any effect at all, on the operation of the Bill. If the Opposition wanted to move an amendment at all 
I should have thought that such an amendment would have been beneficial rather than disadvantageous to the schools system in this country. 
The Bill is aimed at promoting the Government's objective of ensuring the best possible educational standards for all Australian children, whether they attend government or nongovernment schools. The implementation of the provisions of the Bill will not cost the taxpayer money; it will provide some assistance to nongovernment schools by way of government guaranteed loans, which will allow them to obtain better loan conditions. That should be a foregone conclusion. Surely there is no better security than a government backed loan. Despite the fact that it has been claimed that these schools have not been in financial trouble, it still has to be said that there is nothing better than a government guaranteed loan, and that is what the Bill is aiming to achieve. 
One reason for the Commonwealth Government aiming to provide this extra benefit is that non-government schools educate some 20 per cent of our school population. If they continue to enrol a shrinking proportion of the student population, as they have done in recent years, because of a lack of facilities to absorb students, those students are pushed into government schools, which causes very real pressures and overcrowding and which is costing the taxpayer substantially more money. So I feel that the Bill should be accepted in its original form, and the amendment should be rejected. 
There is an urgent necessity for the Federal Government to ease pressures on government schools and non-government schools. This is one way in which the Government is doing it, at a very minimal cost, if any, to the taxpayer. At the present it costs the taxpayer an average of $765 to maintain a pupil in a government primary school, and $1,255 to maintain a pupil in a government secondary school. The cost to the Australian taxpayer of maintaining the extra students who could have been in nongovernment schools if accommodation had been available to them would be about $19m. The cost to the taxpayer of maintaining these students in non-government schools would be only about half of that amount. Some $9m would have been saved. It could have provided benefits for the educational system generally. Savings of such magnitude could be used to good advantage in widening the government school program, for example. Freedom of choice would be preserved. Everyone would benefit. That is what we want to do. That is what the Government is aiming to do. 
In July 1976 the Schools Commission, in its report, noted that there was 'a marked gap between the resources available to government schools and non-government schools'. This Bill tries to close that gap to some extent. The Commission also stated: 
When in addition it is noted that in 1977 there can be no significant increase in the Commonwealth contribution and that government school resource levels are continuing to rise it is obvious that the gap between government and most nongovernment schools is likely to increase. 
So there is an urgent need to do what we can. This is one way of assisting the non-government schools, without disadvantaging anybody. During the three-year period 1974-76, some 60 nongovernment schools closed! That is a demonstration of the need for this Bill to go through without amendment. Included in that figure were 10 closures of schools in the top category, the socalled wealthy schools. So there is very great pressure on these schools. If we are to maintain the policy on which this Government was elected- a dual system of education- we must honour that responsibility. This is one way in which we can contribute in some small way to honouring that obligation. If members of the Opposition do not want to be a part of it, so be it; that is up to them. 
In 1970 the Liberal-Country Party Government introduced the principle of direct Commonwealth per capita grants for nongovernment schools. In 1972 the then Minister for Education,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, indicated the Government's intention to establish the principle that in future the grants would represent 20 per cent of the running cost per pupil m government schools, to be matched by a similar grant at the State level. That is a policy which we want to maintain. I believe it is a policy which everybody should be prepared to maintain, in light of the fact that this dual system of education certainly is accepted by the Government. This policy has been frequently restated by the coalition parties and was restated in the 1975 election campaign. 
Sometimes the Government has been accused of not accepting the recommendations of the Schools Commission. Let me say that in a debate on an education Bill it has been stated that the Commission should have complete control and that the Government should do everything the Commission recommends; its recommendations should be accepted by the Government without question. Then I ask: Why not have commissions to run everything? We would not need a government at all if it did not have a right to oversee the situation in regard to the economy of this country. We must look at that aspect as well, although we endeavour, within the limits of the finances available and within sound economic management, to accede to the recommendations of the Commission. The Government has adopted the policy recommended by the Schools Commission of linking automatically grants to non-government schools to per pupil expenditure m government schools. In this way we are helping those schools in a minimal way but in a way which I am sure they would welcome. In 1978 it is expected to provide about $8m in additional funds to non-government schools, from which all those schools would benefit. 
Tonight we are debating a Bill which will not cost the taxpayer any funds. All it provides is a guarantee. The guarantee should be given. The guarantee is to enable non-government schools to obtain funds at the maximum advantage. I emphasise that maintaining the percentage of the population in non-government schools is to the advantage of all students in this country. I have known of one or two cases in which nongovernment schools have had to close recently, and there has been overcrowding in the state schools as a result of that. No doubt that will be alleviated, but it will be alleviated at cost. If we could have maintained these schools in operation it would have been of general benefit to education as a whole and would have allowed to continue the dual system of education to which this Government is unequivocally committed. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of the disability facing people in isolated rural areas of Australia in meeting high costs of travel and accommodation when they are referred by country general practitioners to specialists in distant cities? In view of the fact that the Government recognises the disadvantages suffered by isolated children in respect of education, and has done much in that area, will the Government also act to assist those very deserving people who have to travel long distances to receive medical care? There is no way for these people to obtain specialist attention other than by travelling to capital cities and having to meet the cost of accommodation. 
I believe that the Australian community at large welcomes reports put out by the Industries Assistance Commission in relation to industries. I believe it is generally accepted that the reports are unbiased or as unbiased as we get here. Therefore the Government must give very serious consideration to the reports that are put out from time to time. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was a Minister in the previous Government which affected the cost of production in this country during the period that it was in office more than the cost has ever been affected in history, and I hope it will not be repeated. The explosion of the cost structure in Australia as a result of the reckless economic policies introduced in the days of the Whitlam Government has made the cost of protection of Australian industries so much greater than it would otherwise have been and so much greater than it ought to be. That is one of the problems we are facing today. Despite the amount of protection that is given to secondary industries, to the car industry in particular, that amount of protection is not in itself sufficient to retain the 80 per cent of the market that we want to preserve for local manufacturers. That is one of the reasons why we have quotas. That is something which we must not forget. We must continue to remind the Australian people of that fact. 
The explosion of the cost structure at that time is the greatest cause of unemployment in this country today. It is the greatest cause of the problem that we face in maintaining a viable industry. Take, for example, the shipbuilding industry. All that this Government was asking of the industry, all that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  asked for, was a period free of industrial strife which would enable the Government to consider the whole area of building ships in Australia. The Government could get no assurances that there would be no industrial strife during that period. That was one of the factors which prevented the Newcastle State Dockyard from being given assistance. The cost to the Australian community of building a ship here, by comparison with the cost of importation of a ship, was such that the Government felt that it was too high a price to pay and that we should look at some other avenues to see whether the cost to the Australian community of giving employment to people generally throughout this country could be reduced to some extent. 
It is true, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, there is buyer resistance. Buyers realise that the cost of Australian manufactured cars, by comparison with imported cars, is too high. It is a quickly escalating cost. Anyone who has had to buy a car in recent times has found that despite rising costs generally the price of cars has risen higher than the price of anything else. I do not think the price of anything else has risen higher than the price of cars. That is because of the cost involved. It is an extremely heavy cost. I have a car which is about five years old. I would have to pay for a similar new car double what I paid for it. I paid thousands of dollars for it in the first place. So thousands of dollars extra have to go into a new car. No wonder there is buyer resistance. One of the reasons for it- we must never forget this- is that the cost structure in this country has risen so steeply. It is still flowing on, despite the best efforts of this Government. 
There is a very strong feeling in rural areas in particular that exporters as a section of the Australian community are carrying an unduly high burden of the cost of protection provided to Australian industries. I realise- I think most people realise-that it is essential that the Government retain industries in Australia because of the degree of employment that they provide. We have no other option. We must consider very carefully the areas in which we can best utilise the tax returns to this Government in order to provide employment. I think it is reasonable to draw attention to the fact that there is a great deal of imbalance. My friend the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  drew attention to the problems confronting people in rural industries who are receiving very poor returns. We should be maintaining a better balance between rural exporting industries and protected manufacturing industries. 
I strongly suggest that more government assistance by way of reduced government charges should be applied in order to reduce the crippling costs borne by those rural exporting industries. There are ways of doing it. One measure which I believe would assist very greatly in this direction and which is fully justified would be the reimplementation of fuel price equalisation and a full equalisation when the scheme is reintroduced as well as the reintroduction of the old scheme. In discussing and considering the protection of industry we should look at the protection of aU industries in this country. We are losing employment in our rural industries as a result of the high cost structure and the impossibility of making profits under the present conditions. There is another way that assistance to the rural industry could be enhanced. That is by a review of telephone charge zones with a view to their expansion in rural areas to allow more local access calls and to include a local call to the nearest main business centre. When the Government is looking at the establishment and protection of industries that should be considered very carefully. 
There are problems related to the employment of people in this country. We know of them. There are many facets to them. The report from the Industries Assistance Commission on passenger motor vehicles has caused reaction among representatives of dealers who handle imported vehicles. Recently I received a telegram from a dealing organisation. I shall read it to the House for honourable members to see the many angles that the Government has to take into consideration. It stated: 
A Datsun Dealer Meeting in Brisbane on 10 October attended by 236 representatives of 60 Queensland and Northern Rivers dealers, viewed with concern and disbelief the recommendation by the I.A.C. that the Datsun quota of fully imported passenger vehicles is slashed by about 30 per cent. 
Following our Government's agreement with Nissan manufacturing in Australia, dealers were required and did expend their investment and facilities for the sale and service of Datsun vehicles. Fully imported passenger cars in a volume at least equal to that previously enjoyed are essential to support Nissan by taking and selling increasing numbers of the less profitable locally manufactured vehicles. 
We cannot understand the reasoning behind the recommendation that would penalise Nissan who is investing many millions of dollars in this country and would favour the companies which have chosen to adhere solely to the import and build-up of passenger cars with no contribution to the employment of Australians in the manufacturing segment of our industry. 
The meeting resolved to seek your support in ensuring that our Government disregards the IAC recommendation and provides sufficient quota to enable Datsun dealers to receive no less imported vehicles than previously and supports a company which is encouraged to invest in Australia. 
That telegram sets out the position from another angle. It is one of many angles that the Government has to take into consideration. It is certainly very important from a national point of view, as well as from the point of view of the beef industry, that we have regard to our trade balance with Japan. We are not trading with Japan as successfully as we would like and we are not being given the consideration by Japan that we ought to be given. But surely we have to consider the importance of the Japanese markets to our beef producers. The question of restricting imports from Japan cannot be taken lightly. The beef industry certainly needs the Japanese market. We are not getting the share of" the market which we ought to be getting. The newly appointed Australian Meat Board should examine that angle. But it will be handicapped if we restrict our imports from Japan. 
The Government has to decide- I agree that this is a very difficult problem- the relative merits of the arguments from various sections of the community. That is what the Government is doing. This was set out in a joint statement issued recently by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Wal  Fife. I welcome  Mr Fife's  appointment to that port.folio. I am pleased to see him in the chamber for the debate this afternoon. 
I agree with my friend for Capricornia; he is a very good Minister. The joint statement read: 
The Ministers said that the Government had accepted the Commission's recommendation that quantitative import restrictions on passenger motor vehicles should be continued until 31 December 1979.  Senator Cotton  and  Mr Fife  said that the Government considered that continued restrictions were necessary to prevent severe disruption in the local industry. The Ministers said that the Government believed that unless import restrictions were continued the local industry's market share would fall below the level of 80 per cent which the Government regarded as necessary to avoid disruption. However, the Government did not accept the Commission's recommendation that the market sharing policy be terminated on 31 December 1979. Any arrangements necessary to ensure that market disruption does not take place after that date can only be determined during 1979. 
I believe that this is a fairly well balanced view of the Industries Assistance Commission report. The statement refers to a number of other matters. However, I quote the last paragraph. It stated: 
The Ministers also said that the Government had accepted the Commission's recommendation that no additional action was necessary in respect of imports of unassembled passenger vehicles which are assembled outside the motor vehicle plan. The Ministers said however, that the Government did not favour any significant expansion of investment in assembly operations outside the plan and imports of unassembled vehicles would therefore be closely monitored. 
We have a very real problem in deciding the real balance. I emphasise again that in looking at assistance to industry we have neglected to give to primary industry the -amount of assistance needed to enable people to survive and to be ready purchasers of the vehicles produced in this country. Unless the Government fully accepts that responsibility we will have problems not only in employment in the rural industry but also in the provision of export income which is vitally important to the economic welfare of this country. I commend the Government on giving serious consideration to the report of the Industries Assistance Commission. I hope it will consider the various factors I have raised. It is vitally important that Australia has a balanced development. That is one of the policies of the Party which I am proud to represent in the Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-This legislation was introduced following a request from the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation through its oilseeds committee. I was rather disappointed when the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  made some criticism of that organisation. If he did not do so directly he did so by quoting criticism of it. I feel that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation through its oilseeds committee deserves great credit for bringing this proposal forward. The Federation did not ask for Government assistance. It did want to see that a research scheme was established. I am sure that that organisation and all growers and producers of oilseeds welcome the Government's interest in concern for and appreciation of the value of such a scheme by introducing a matching of funding with the industry to finance it. I refute any criticism of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. I believe that great credit is due to the industry for the very responsible approach to this proposal. It will be of great value to the industry and consequently to the gross domestic product of this country which in turn of course will reflect in value to the whole of the community. So the contribution made by the Government in this area, although it directly affects the oilseed producers, will, through the producers and through their increase in production, advantage the whole community. 
I understand that the moneys will be distributed where the problem is considered to be the greatest and not necessarily on a State basis. This is one thing that I appreciate. Sometimes we are a bit parochial in these things and it is good to be able to see that we can spread the moneys around and use them where they will do the most good for the industry and for the country. There are many areas in which this research could be well applied. I will refer to only a couple of them. For instance, disease of rapeseed in Western Australia and of safflower in Queensland is one aspect that needs attention. Research into such things could be part of the scheme. There are many areas in which this research work could be undertaken. Already some of the areas have been mentioned by previous speakers. 
There is a great need for this proposal. I listened with some dissatisfaction when the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  said that this scheme should have been introduced earlier and more money should have been provided. At least this Government has taken the initiative. It has decided to assist in the undertaking of this work and to promote it at this stage. Therefore this Government deserves credit for what it has done in this direction. If previous governments saw a need for such a scheme but did not take the initiative that is on their heads. The industry and the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation deserve credit for making the approach in the first place. 
Two areas of research which I hope will be looked into very carefully in the course of the operation of this scheme are hybrid seed production and disease eradication. The value of hybrids has been accepted. Research to obtain the best plant populations is also under way, but this should be expanded- for example, the distance between rows and the space between plants in each row. This research has been undertaken on a number of properties already. I would not know how many. Good results have been achieved and some information obtained. I think it should certainly be expanded. Research on crop rotation is also desirable. Again such research has been undertaken in individual cases, and results have been obtained, but I believe that an overall look at the results that have been obtained and further investigation could lead to greater production in the industry. 
Another matter for researchers to study which could be of real advantage is the rotation of crops and the benefit which applies. Farmers have used rotation in crop growing for quite a long time. To get the full facts of such land use under a research scheme would be very beneficial. For example, a study should be made of whether wheat should follow soya bean, because soya bean is not a user of nitrogen. Another matter for researchers to study would be what crops should follow sunflower, which is one of the major oil producing seeds. Sunflowers have a root system which is an improver of soil structure. These things must be done in a proper research undertaking so that they can be looked at and people can profit from them, apart from what has been done in what might be called a spasmodic sort of way. We could look at the best time to plant soya bean This is because that plant is so sensitive to light and heat. It is an exciting time for researchers and scientists, with the money that has been made available to them by the Government and the industry. I believe- I agree with the honourable member for Fraser on this point- that we have the men capable of fully utilising these funds. I certainly welcome with great enthusiasm the funds. 
I believe that the eradication of disease is one of the areas in which these funds will be most effectively spent. I am taking, for example, rust in sunflower. That can be devastating. Crops can be almost destroyed overnight. That might be overstating the position a little, but rust has a very drastic effect on sunflower. There are problems with white blister, rust and alternaria. There is hope, provided additional research work can be done, that these diseases can be overcome. Alternaria is a very serious disease in safflower. Unless control measures are found safflower could be a crop of historical interest only. The disease is disastrous in its effect. It can be carried on seed, resulting in poor seedling establishment. It can affect the crop during its growing cycle and reduce yield or can affect the crop at maturity and cause oil quality defects. As it is a seed borne disease, control can be achieved by injection of funds into research or with the introduction of plant variety rights legislation. I understand this legislation is the responsibility of the Minister for Productivity. Perhaps this matter could be finalised so that, in addition to the funds made available under this legislation, the problem could be overcome quicker with the co-operation of private industry, perhaps by the introduction of a reward for the development of control measures. 
Praise must be given to our researchersdedicated men and women. The industry has faith in the ability of these people. It is a two-way partnership- industry and scientific people. There is a very definite need to have a viable oilseeds industry. If wheat quotas are introduced, oilseeds would fill the gap in growers' income. There is a need for this seed to be produced in Australia and exported as we need assistance in our balance of payments. The current build-up of wheat stocks in the United States of America makes it essential that we have a viable oilseeds industry. The position in respect of exports is not the most important one; the position in respect of our own production is. We already import these oils and oilseeds. 
These seeds will be grown in Australia only if there is an ability in the market to give the grower an attractive price for his product. This price must remain stable. That is a very important factor. There is no prospect at this stage of a price stabilisation scheme at home, as far as I can see. As we import supplies it is necessary to ensure that these supplies do not disrupt the home market. It must be insulated against severe disruptions caused by huge supplies of overseas oil being dumped on our shores in periods of glut overseas. These overseas gluts may be of short duration, but they can have long term disastrous effects for the Australian growers. I submit that there should be a sliding scale of duties on imports to prevent sales of overseas oil to Australia at prices quite unrelated to accepted world prices. A set tariff per tonne does not take due cognisance of the disruption that can occur. 
The vegetable oil industry in Australia is made up of a rural oilseeds growing industry and a manufacturing crushing industry. The oilseeds growing industry is geared to Australian requirements, although it occasionally exports, and is not export oriented. There is a necessity to ensure that duties are paid to save the Australian industry. There is also competition from substitute oils such as palm and coconut. One realises that these come, in the main, from our developing near neighbours. So we must look at that angle. It is interesting to note the amount of imports. In 1973-74, 81,227 tonnes of oilseeds was imported. The amount of imports dropped quite substantially during the next three years to 14,203 tonnes in 1975-76, but lifted to 24,916 tonnes in 1976-77. Supplies of vegetable oils from Australian grown oilseeds are insufficient to meet domestic requirements. So if we can build up production through this research scheme we will be saving the Australian community the cost of importing these oilseeds. 
The growing and processing sectors of the Australian oilseeds industry are concerned at the intensifying competition from imported oils, particularly palm and coconut oils, which enter free of duty. So there is a need to protect our industry. There is a need for research to continue, which would enable the industry to have a higher rate of production and which would be more economic to the grower and, of course, beneficial to the country as a whole. We must look at the threat of imports to our industry. They are of great significance. 
Chemists have made advances in technology which would allow greater redistribution of palm oil and, to a lesser extent, coconut oil. In oils traditionally there have been two broad categories. One category includes peanuts, safflower, sunflower, maize, soya bean, cottonseed, rapeseed and linseed. The second category includes coconut, palm and palm kernel. Originally there was no interchangeability- now there is- in many table margarines marketed in Australia that are not polyunsaturated margarines. Some polyunsaturated margarines may have a palm oil content up to 40 per cent as a replacement for soya bean oil. It is anticipated that unless something is done to protect the local oilseeds industry importation of coconut oil could have very serious effects. Imports of palm oil have increased from 5,21 1 tonnes in 1971-72 to 18,000 tonnes in 1975-76; of coconut oil from 7,718 tonnes in 1971-72 to 17,000 tonnes in 1 975-76. 1 do not wish to see tariffs imposed that would seriously disadvantage the traditional trade interests of suppliers such as Malaysia, the Philippines and Papua New Guinea. Let us have a balance so that we will have minimum disruption to our industry and to their industry. 
Another aspect which is applicable to the promotion of a viable oilseeds industry is the avenue which it gives for diversity of production. One of the greatest protections that a farmer has is the ability to diversify in his production program and the wider the range of diversification the more effectively he can cope with fluctuating markets. The fact that changes can be made in crops to counter over-supply in some areas helps not only those best able to diversify but also those who may not have the same choice at the time when that particular crop is in over-supply. That is an angle we should not lose sight of when considering the research program that has been instituted by the Government. I commend the Government very warmly for it. 
I have briefly mentioned research into crop rotation. I would like to emphasise the great importance of this aspect not only because of increased yield but also for the maintenance of soil structure. The Bill before us is of great importance to the industry. I believe that the funds being made available will enable researchers to provide to the industry the assistance that it certainly deserves. It certainly will be of great advantage. In reply to a comment that more money should be provided I would say: Let us see how this work is being undertaken. When there is need for more funds for research to benefit this industry and this country there is no question in my mind that this Government, having now accepted that responsibility, will continue to meet it in the years ahead. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-There is no doubt that the Government can take real pride in the funds that it has made available for education despite the major objective that the Government has pursued since it came to office, to reduce inflation. One of the methods by which it intended to achieve that objective was a reduction in government expenditure and consequently a reduction in the enormous deficits which were a legacy from the Whitlam Labor Government. The very beneficial results of the Government's program of reducing inflation are reflected in the latest consumer price index figures. The Government has provided guidelines for the Schools Commission and within these guidelines it has recommended a program for 1978 totalling $ 1,740.7m. It is correct to say that wages and salaries form the major part of the current grants for education expenditure and they will continue to be supplemented by the Government to cover the cost increases. The Government intends to permit all the projects contained in the Advanced Education Commission's program in 1978 to continue. It will increase by $3m expenditure for technical college buildings in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. 
Although guidelines have been set down for the Commission the Government desires that within these guidelines the Commission should have as much flexibility as possible. In this regard the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  will be empowered to effect transfers of capital funds both between sectors of the educational program and between States after advice from the Commission. The States grants legislation will ensure that any transfers will be subject to prior consultation by the Commission and the State authorities. Any transfers that are made will be tabled in both Houses of the Parliament so there will be ample opportunity for members of parliament and, through the Parliament, for the community to know exactly what is taking place in that area. There will be nothing hidden in regard to those transfers that may be made. They will be made in the best interests of educational advancement generally. 
When looking specifically at schools we see that the Government's expenditure program for schools in 1978 amounts to $571m at December cost levels. Government schools will receive $337. 3m and non-government schools will receive $2 10.2m whilst $23.4m is to be shared jointly between the government and nongovernment sectors. Schools Commission grants represent about 15 per cent of the total cost of government schools in the States. The amount of some $5m to be provided to non-government schools embodies an important principle and one emphasised by the Schools Commission. This is a factor which has received a lot of publicity but which I believe has not been looked at in the context of taking into consideration all factors that are involved. In 1976, non-government primary schools were operating at a level 28 per cent below that of government schools, a decline of 5 per cent since 1972. Surely this is a situation which, in all conscience, should be rectified and the Government has taken steps, through that $5m, to do just that. Non-government secondary schools were 15 per cent below government schools, a decline of 2 per cent. 
Against that background of significant inequality and demonstrable real need, the Commission, m its 1977-79 report, had reported previously on the need for increased capital expenditure for new schools in new growth areas. It was self-evident that that was needed and the Government has met that need, to that extent at any rate. Whilst the Commission did not specify a particular level of capital funds for this purpose, it has made it quite clear that it wishes the State Planning and Finance Committees to consider this priority. The Federal Government's decision, therefore, to earmark $3m towards new capital projects must be soundly based, particularly as the amount will be distributed on the basis of strict need upon the recommendations of the State Planning and Finance Committees of the Schools Commission. The fact that overall funding to State schools has been increased very substantially means that this decision has not been taken at the expense of or to the detriment of the State system, but that the funds are to be used and provided as a topping up of State Government resources. With an increase in Commonwealth payments to the States this financial year of more than $600m, or 17 per cent under the tax sharing arrangements, the States have ample capacity to increase further their spending on education, if they so wish. 
-My friend, the honourable member for Darling Downs, says that they have money running out of their ears. I guess that would be a debatable point in a State context. Nevertheless, the States have been treated with great consideration by the Federal Government. Through the funds that are made available, they can provide funds for education to a greater degree than they were able to do before. Although the resource levels in non-government schools have increased, the gap between the average levels of resource usage in government and nongovernment schools has widened since 1972. It is to help reduce further deterioration in the relative position of non-government schools that the Government has accepted that per capita grants for non-government schools should be linked to per pupil running costs in government schools. This link, together with enrolment increases and changes in levels of support, is expected to cost and additional $8.8m in 1978. Who on the Opposition side of the House is prepared to challenge the need and the merit of that particular Government proposal. Non-government schools educate 20 per cent of our school population. If they continue to enrol a shrinking proportion of the student population, as they have done in recent years because of a lack of facilities to absorb them, obviously these students must be pushed into government schools, causing real pressures with overcrowding and, of course, costing the taxpayer very much more. 
This policy is reasonable and sound. It is a policy that this Government has adopted and will continue to adopt to try to maintain that level of assistance to non-government schools. The Government has accepted the Commission's recommendation that funding for the emergency assistance scheme of $500,000 would be appropriate next year within the total funds available. This scheme provides emergency grants to nongovernment schools suffering severe financial difficulties as a result of an unexpected drop in enrolments of country students. An amount of $ 14.8m will be provided for services and development programs in 1978. The Government has accepted the Commission's recommendation that the allocations for development activities and associated staff replacement should be combined to give more flexibility to the States. For the special projects program, the 
Government has accepted the proposed allocation of $3.6. to be comprised of $3m for school level innovations and $0.6m for national level activities. 
I turn now to specific purpose programs. The Government will be continuing programs for disadvantaged schools in country areas and for special education, including provisions for children in institutions, at the same base level as in 1977. As recommended by the Commission, the base program for migrant and multi-cultural education, whilst the same in total has been adjusted between the States and systems to bring the payments more in line with the actual distribution of migrant children. Included in the amount of $23.4m provided for the joint CommonwealthState program is an amount of $3.8m for disadvantaged schools in country area projects. One of these projects is based at Charleville in my electorate and is working well. The whole project is designed to benefit all the appropriate areas throughout Australia. The project centred at Charleville runs from Roma to the Northern Territory border and south to the New South Wales border. It is intended, however, to work with the New South Wales State authorities and a meeting will be held at Bourke on 8 and 9 November to promote the combined Queensland-New South Wales-Commonwealth scheme. It is proposed that a radio facility should be used at Bourke but at the present time the radio is not yet licensed. I feel it is very important that a licence should be granted and I will be approaching the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to see whether provision for the granting of this licence could be expedited. 
I refer next to the Isolated Children's Parents Association and the tremendous work and great sacrifice the people who comprise that organisation have made. The cost of education to people in outlying areas is a tremendous burden and something more will have to be done about it. Non-government boarding schools have provided much of the education for students who have to live away from home. Hostels provided by organisations such as church bodies, the Country Women's Association and local authorities also have played a very commendable part in this area but costs are of great concern and many boarding schools have closed the boarding section of their schools. There is a need for greater assistance to parents who have to send their children away to school. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Can the Minister for Post and Telecommunications advise when the next stage of television expansion, which he mentioned earlier, will be announced? Can he also give an assurance that all towns in western Queensland that have made representations for television stations will be included in the program? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. He will be well aware of the fact that Queensland, along with other parts of Australia, is already suffering the effects of drought, with all the signs pointing to an even worse situation. Against this background of worsening drought, can the Minister advise the House the beef export situation as far as Queensland is concerned? 
-The Brigalow Lands Agreement Amendment Bill amends the Brigalow Lands Agreement Act of 1962. That Act was amended previously in 1965 and 1967. This Bill deals with problems being endured by people who are in the area covered by the Brigalow Lands Agreement Act. I recognise, as do most people who understand the problems of beef producers today, that there are people outside the area concerned who also need assistance. Nevertheless, this is one of the areas of great difficulty. It is an area where there has been probably as great a financial problem as any other area in the beef industry. Since this Bill has been brought in to help those people I think that we can look at the expansion of the scheme to areas which are possibly almost as much entitled to relief as are those people. 
Because of lack of time we cannot have as many speakers as I am sure would like to speak to the Bill. I know that the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  and the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  were anxious to speak but cannot do so because of the limitation of time. There has to be a limitation of time. We cannot go on forever. We have to get the bosiness of the House through before the Parliament is dissolved. Those two members have expressed to me their disappointment at not being able to speak to the Bill. However, I will comment on some of the views that they expressed in relation to it. 
Under the Brigalow Lands Agreement Act Queensland is required to repay loans and interest made to the State by the Commonwealth for the purchase and development of brigalow lands. The scheme was warmly welcomed by the State Government when it was first introduced. At that time it seemed that it would be a development scheme which would have tremendous value to the State and would be viable and beneficial to those people participating in it. It was no fault of the people engaged in it that it did not proceed as expected and provide a satisfactory development scheme. The difficulties that the people are experiencing in the area are beyond their control. 
Brigalow land is a highly productive type of land. A lot of the land is used for the production of agricultural crops. The brigalow land in the area where the scheme applies is confined largely to the production of beef. Because of the disastrously low export prices continuing over some period of time, these people are in grave financial difficulties. The export price of beef so affects the domestic price. These people are now producing at well below the cost of production. They cannot go on just doing that. The settlers have been placed in an impossible position in endeavouring to meet their commitments and to carry on. The difficulties that they have faced are very great. They have certainly done their best. We must give credit to them for the courage and determination with which they have faced their problems. They have endeavoured to try to meet their commitments. But the Government now, realising this position, has agreed to extend the consideration which is outlined in this Bill. The people concerned certainly deserve what is being done for them. 
Under the Bill the Commonwealth Government is willing to grant concessions to the State Government m respect of repayments to the Commonwealth by the State, but it does require that similar concessions be made by the State to the settlers in the brigalow areas. I am sure that the State is only too anxious to do so and will cooperate fully with the Commonwealth in that regard. The Commonwealth and the Queensland governments are anxious to assist the brigalow settlers under this scheme. It is quite obvious that the Commonwealth has made concessions to assist these settlers. The State Government welcomes it in helping it to provide assistance to the settlers through the concessions that are being granted to the State. There is no doubt that there will be no problem between the governments on that aspect. There will be a cooperative effort. 
It is, however, proposed that a 12-month moratorium on repayments to the States will be accepted by the Commonwealth. The repayments of principal will be deferred and spread over the following years. This is a measure which has been successfully applied in other areas. I remember the Agricultural Bank in Queensland, of its own volition, adopting that sort of procedure. Loans were made available over a 20-year period. Borrowers striking difficult times appealed to the Agricultural Bank which decided whether to fund the outstanding payments over the period of the loan. It decided that it would fund outstanding payments over the period of the loans. I was in an area where this applied and all the people I knew who were affected fulfilled their commitments. When one is dealing with primary industries and the vagaries, the difficulties and the unreliability of markets this is certainly a proposal or an idea that should be considered and applied. I believe that this proposal incorporating that idea is a very good one. Interest which would normally be payable over the period will be waived. One aspect of this concession is that it is being provided by the Commonwealth for one year on the condition that the State Government agrees to extend a similar concession to the settlers, according to need, for an average two-year period. 
There may be some comment- I have heard some comment- that the State feels that perhaps the Commonwealth might provide sufficient funds to cover that two-year period and not have this requirement. That is one of the matters that I have heard debated. But that is how the present situation stands. What we are most concerned about is that the brigalow settlers should get the concessions and relief that they are justly entitled to receive. The period over which the payments are made at present is 20 years but the Government has quite generously, I contend, agreed to extend this period to 27 years in relation to the State's commitment to the Commonwealth and once again providing that the State apply similar relief measures to the settlers concerned. I have no doubt at all that the State Government will be prepared to meet that requirement, but when one is dealing in a business way these things have to be stated. 
I am hopeful that this concession will enable the brigalow settlers to. carry on their work in developing the brigalow area and enable them to keep in business until, hopefully, the market price of cattle rises to enable them to show a profitable operation. I concede that one of the things that confronts this Government is to do everything in its power to assist in whatever way it can to enable those prices to rise. The Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation has a responsible job on its hands. I am not going to condemn it at this stage, as it has already been condemned, before it has an opportunity to prove what it is able to achieve. It is a new organisation. I think we should give it an opportunity. I have no doubt that avenues are available whereby the supplydemand situation can be improved. We must look for more markets. We must develop the ones we have. As has been stated, the Japanese market has been expanded to take another 10,000 tonnes of Australian beef. Provided we can do that and at the same time keep our production to a level so that we can reasonably expect to get profitable prices for our beef, that is the soundest of all bases for the continuing prosperity of the beef industry. 
The people who have been working in this industry have suffered greatly. Those of us who have watched this problem and have been concerned with it have a great deal of satisfaction in seeing that these people are at least going to get this degree of assistance. If further concessions are needed they will be a matter for consideration in future and I believe they will be, and certainly should be, sympathetically considered by this Government. The relief granted by way of a moratorium on both principle and interest will be a significant measure to give assistance to those in that area. That is what we are doing at present. There is no doubt that the people there have suffered a great deal. They are poverty stricken in many instances through no fault of their own. The States of Queensland has had to bear its share of responsibility to ensure the average two years' moratorium that I have mentioned for those in need in the brigalow. Area 3 of that scheme is mainly situated within the federal division of Dawson. It is for that reason that I mentioned that the federal member for Dawson was so concerned about the matter and was anxious to be able to put the case for his constituents when this Bill was debated. 
-He is a very good member. He would not be able to speak on this Bill if he were here because of the time limitation. I have already mentioned that and I think it is unfair to condemn him for that. 
The honourable member is condemning him. If he were here he would not be able to speak because of the time factor. I have mentioned that a couple of times. However, while building up the properties and enocuraging the bouyancy of the beef market we have to remember that these breeding herds were acquired at high prices when these people were starting. They had that difficulty. They went in when the prices were high, when the industry was thriving. This factor is on top of the problems that they struck later. So they really had no chance. The Government must remember that. These people are excellent settlers. They deserve the consideration that they are being given. Until prices get back to a more profitable level the Government will have to continue to give them the consideration that they are justly entitled to receive. 
With other commitments the loans that they have received have increased through high interest rates, and without the relief currently being offered by the moratorium the financial burden that these people have to carry would be impossible to bear. The moratorium will bring immediate financial relief from some of the loan redemptions. Coupled with the $2,000 grant program which is contained in the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Bill, which is being debated cognately with this Bill, these things we hope will be sufficient for these pioneer settlers to ride this trough and get over this two-year relief period when there will be a return to higher market prices and hopefully full viability. It is the desire and the duty of this Government to see that this is achieved. 
It should also be appreciated that the Commonwealth has assisted with a cash flow to those settlers with children with the alteration of family allowances. But that is outside the scope of this Bill. However, it indicates that the Government is deeply concerned with the problems that these people face. The package for beef may not be the complete answer but it will be an inducement for the States also to co-operate and be an encouragement to private lending institutions and to the settlers and beef producers themselves to assist towards a final recovery which I believe will come. Those people who are trying to forecast beef prices for the future have a hopeful outlook. But the people who are in severe financial difficulties now cannot wait for that time. Their interest payments are accruing at such a rate that unless they get this type of assistance they will not be able to see this time through. Therefore, it is vitally necessary that we should give it to them. We need the short term assistance to bridge the gap until some other longer range program on beef classification and a marketing scheme are given a firmer basis to guarantee a stable market price. That is the situation at which we have arrived at present. I want briefly to touch on the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Bill. I have mentioned the Australian Beef and Live-stock Corporation, the problems that - 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the negotiations which are now under way in Geneva and which are aimed at drawing up a new international wheat agreement. Is there any danger that such a new agreement could interfere with the ability of the Australian Wheat Board to negotiate freely sales of Australian wheat? If so, does the Government recognise the threat that this would be to our wheat trade and what does it intend to do about the situation? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, firstly I ask you to convey my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his re-election to that high office. I also congratulate you on your election as  Chairman  of Committees. I ask you also to pass on my congratulations to the  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. I pay tribute to the  Clerk  of the House and to those who assist him in his work. All these people contribute to the effective operation and workings of this Parliament. However, I emphasise that, in order to fulfil their duties and responsibilities, better accommodation must be provided for members of parliament. The accommodation which has been provided is not good enough. It has been my unpleasant duty as the National Country Party Whip to allocate to honourable members of my party rooms which are below standard in size and in other respects. I know that this matter is receiving the attention of those responsible and I wish them well in their endeavours. It is certainly something that is necessary if we expect the best results from the people who represent the Australian community in this House. More and more honourable members are bringing staff to Parliament. They require rooms and honourable members need to have room in their offices so that they can work effectively there. 
As I see it, one of the most vital needs of the nation is effective and economic communications. Many people living in sparsely settled areas suffer quite severely from the lack of frequency in postal services and from the high costs of installation of telephones in the first instance and in the cost of telephone communications generally. This is because of the high percentage of trunk line calls that have to be made so that they can conduct their business effectively. In the course of this speech I will mention some of the other problems faced by people in those isolated areas. I make no apology for doing that, because those people are represented by only a comparatively small number of members in this House. Those of us who represent those people have to take the opportunity when speaking in debates to draw attention to the problems that exist in those areas, whilst not neglecting the needs, and difficulties of, and the progressive measures that are needed for, the community as a whole. 
I turn now to postal services. It is my very strong conviction that where postal services can be provided they should be provided at a frequency of not less than twice weekly. Quite often this minimum requirement cannot be met by the 
Australian Postal Commission under the criteria with which it has to conform. Whilst we recognise the need for the economic operation of government departments and commissions, such as the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission, it must be remembered that the Postal Commission should provide a minimum service even if that service has to be provided at some cost to the community. I have taken up with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  the suggestion that even if a twice weekly postal service is outside the financial criteria of" the Postal Commission it should be provided, and the difference between the amount allowed to the Postal Commission and the cost of providing the service should be made available by the Government to the Postal Commission. This would mean that in providing such an essential service, which the national need justifies, the balance sheet of the Postal Commission would not be affected adversely. 
I turn now to telecommunications. The cost of installing telephones for individual subscribers in outlying areas can be and often is prohibitive. Once again, the need for a high standard national communications service should be given the consideration that it deserves. I believe we all agree that the progress the Telecommunications Commission is making in the development of automatic telephone services is very desirable; but to have automatic telephone services one has to have a high standard of telephone line with which to be connected to those services. There are examples of people who have telephone lines which are suitable, if not fully effective, for manual exchanges but which, although the people have not asked for this service to be provided, have to be changed in order to conform with the requirements of automatic exchanges. These people have to incur very great costs in upgrading their lines in order to meet those conditions. 
I believe that in this area there should be a reasonable maximum charge. I believe that that charge should be spread over a longer period than it is at the present time. It could be spread over, say, 10 years in order to alleviate the heavy burden of meeting the capital cost of that connection. In some cases it is beyond the financial capacity of people to provide telephones for themselves. I once spoke about this matter to a Postmaster-General in a previous government. He said: 'I realise that there is a social problem. People who are living far away from medical and professional services, particularly medical services, and who are without a telephone are indeed very isolated'. There are cases in which very serious illness has resulted from such isolation because a telephone was not available. There is no advantage in having a very high class ambulance service if one cannot call on it when the need arises. 
I deal now with another matter which concerns telephone services, which I have advocated and on which I hope to receive the support of every honourable member in this House when they consider the justice of the claim. Every telephone subscriber should have a local access call to the nearest main business centre. I define 'main business centre' as a town which has medical and other professional services available. I ask the Minister for Post and TelecommunicationsI will ask him again by another means if he is not able to answer now- to provide me with the cost to the Telecommunications Commission of providing this very justified benefit. When I say that it is justified, I really mean that, because it is an advantage that is enjoyed by the great majority of Australians today. The problems faced by the people who are suffering in the sparsely populated areas should be alleviated to that extent. 
I should like to touch on a few other matters. I welcome the pending introduction of the Australian Rural Bank. The major benefit it will provide will be long term loans, thereby reducing the annual cost of redemption of loans. I believe that the establishment of such a bank is a step in the right direction. There may be some other aspects of the Bank's activities that will need changing as time goes on. I strongly recommend that people use it and take advantage of it. If we find that there are problems in the operation of the Rural Bank- for example, if money is not being provided or if it is not going to the right people under the conditions on which the Rural Bank is brought into being- then I, for one, will be looking to see that the position is changed. A responsibility will rest on the banks which will be operating in conjunction with the Rural Bank and which will be recommending loans to see that the objective of the Rural Bank is realised. If that does not occur, then the objective will have to be realised in some other way. But, at the present time, the banks will have that responsibility and I feel that they will be able to cope with it. 
I should like to deal with another aspect of this question about which there is some division of opinion. I am of the opinion that the interest charged by the Rural Bank should be at a specified rate below the existing commercial rates of interest. That situation should continue until the interest rates overall reach a figure that is more capable to being handled by our primary producers; for example, when the figure gets down to, say, 7 per cent. From then on, primary producers might be able to cope with the commercial rates of interest, if they have decreased. I know the arguments against this proposal only too well- I have heard them quite often- but I strongly suggest that the difficulties faced by most rural industries, particularly in recent years, are full justification for a modest concessional rate of interest. 
I hope that the Government will give consideration to that factor. It will be very difficult indeed for many hard working primary producers to regain viability unless some concessions are made- concessions such as interest rates, which I have mentioned. We have often heard the adage 'a fair day's work for a fair day's pay'. In asking for these concessions tonight I am simply reversing this adage and asking for a fair day's pay for a fair day's work. We will be moving towards that to some extent if those costs that have to be met now can be decreased. It is well known that a large number of primary producers are receiving intolerably low net incomes at the present time. 
The cost of transport is a matter of very deep concern because it plays an important part in the rising costs of production. The re-introduction of the fuel price equalisation scheme is vital if we are to offset these costs to some extent. I commend the Government on the action that it is taking in this matter. I remind the House and the people of this nation that it was a Labor government which deprived the people of Australia of the advantages of a fuel price equalisation scheme which could have been so beneficial to them during these years of low prices. Those Labor Party members who represent rural areas must feel this way, even if they do not say it. In any case, the fuel price equalisation scheme was designed to offset some of the problems, the difficulties and the costs faced by people living in outlying areas. Honourable members should remember also that it was not a benefit purely to the primary producers; it was a benefit to all those people who live in outlying areas, whatever their occupation. The benefit was spread across the board. The scheme enabled people to live in those areas without having to meet those extra costs. 
It helped the tourists as well, as my honourable friend from Calare said. It helped everybody because people could travel through those outlying areas and even middle areas without having to pay the high prices for petrol that they now have to pay. The scheme which is proposed at the present time will subsidise the country freight differential to the extent that country consumers of products covered by the scheme will pay a price which includes a freight differential of no more than about one cent a litre. The scheme will operate by means of grants made by the Commonwealth to the States pursuant to section 96 of the Constitution. These grants will be in amounts equal to the moneys expended by the States in subsidising the sales of eligible products by oil companies and other registered distributors, provided such payments are made in accordance with legal schemes formulated under legislation to be introduced by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. These legal schemes will set out formally the respective roles of the Commonwealth and the various States in the implementation of subsidy arrangements and will detail the relevant administrative procedures. That is the basis of the scheme which is being introduced. The second stage of the proposals by the Government to reduce the difference to not more than 0.5c a litre will benefit a much greater area and will be, of course, of substantially greater benefit to outlying areas. I look forward to the introduction of the benefits to be provided for in the second stage. The first stage of the Government's proposals will be implemented in the near future. I strongly recommend that the second stage of the Government's proposals be brought forward and implemented as soon as practicable. 
Another matter that I want to raise tonight is the inequity of the burden of local authority rates. These charges have become increasingly difficult to meet where the profitability of industry is low or non-existent. Unfortunately, those areas are not hard to find today. I therefore strongly recommend that the Stuckey report brought down by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, which advocates that 5 per cent of personal income tax be made available to local authorities, should be accepted by the Government. I commend the Government for introducing the principle of allowing a percentage of personal income tax to go to local authorities. I commend the Government for its intention to increase the figure to 2 per cent during the life of this Parliament. Whilst I concede that the expenditure of a government must be controlled, I still believe that the rate of progress towards achieving a figure of 5 per cent, which I believe is necessary and desirable, should be increased. Again I urge the Government to give consideration to looking at the percentage of income tax made available to local authorities. I repeat that where profitability is low or nonexistent the burden of rates is very heavy. Surely the Government, as the representative of the people of this nation, should look at ways and means of providing funds for necessary and essential services in the most equitable way. If the people in country areas have a good season and receive good prices they will make a fair and reasonable contribution. I repeat that there is a need to spread the burden of local authority expenditure amongst those people in the community who are best able to bear that burden. 
I wish to mention the great advantage of the removal of death duties to many people, including the families of those people who will be leaving estates to their families. Only recently I received a letter from a person who was left an estate before the Queensland Government led the way and abolished death duties. That person had to pay both State and Federal duties on that. It was a property which was showing very little profit but which still had a high capital value. It was still hightly valued for the purposes of estate duty. The woman concerned was billed to the extent of $85,000. She will never be able to pay that amount. She was made bankrupt. There are very many instances of this occurring. There was a similar case recently. An attempt has been made to obtain a little more time to allow the debt to be paid. 
I welcome the Government's decision to appropriate funds for decentralisation projects. The Summit Co-operative Fruitgrowers Association in the Stanthorpe district of the electorate of Maranoa, about which honourable members have heard before, has already made an application for funds to assist in financing the establishment of a fruit juice processing plant. The value of establishing such a plant in the granite belt of Queensland is not only in the work it provides but also because hailstorms are quite prevalent in that area. During some seasons they have affected large amounts of fruit, as they have done this year, making it unsuitable for the fresh fruit market. That fruit is still quite suitable for juice processing. At the present time there is quite a keen demand for fruit juice. The cooperative already has markets for some of the fruit juice that it will be processing. I am confident that the project will be very successful. The Summit Co-operative Fruitgrowers Association has had extensive experience in handling fruit and has been a successful association through the years. This is one way in which we can move effectively towards decentralisation. I warmly commend the Government for taking that action. 
I shall say a few words about the rate of unemployment so that I will not be accused of having a one-sided view of life in general in this nation. I am concerned about the rate of unemployment and I think every effort should be made to reduce it. In that connection, I would like the Government to look very carefully at the existing apprenticeship conditions with the object of further encouraging employers to engage apprentices. It has been claimed that the conditions which attach to employing apprentices make it uneconomic for them to be employed. If that is so, and some employers have made that claim to me, it is necessary that alterations be made to make it economical for those employers who wish to do so to engage apprentices. They should be encouraged in that way. Some of the problems I have mentioned and some of the remedies I have mentioned apply to people in outlying areas. I say again that I make no apology for that. I remind those people who criticise them that a responsibility rests upon the shoulders of every person in this nation to see that the full productive capacity of the nation is utilised. The gratitude of the Australian community is surely due to those people who are prepared to accept that responsibility in areas where conditions of life are not easy and where there are no medical, educational or cultural advantages available to them. We should be prepared to do something to assist them in the national effort that they are making. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I rise on a matter of parliamentary privilege. I have been advised by the Serjeant-at-Arms that he has received advice from the Postmaster at Parliament House that due to an industrial dispute he does not expect any mail to be delivered to or dispatched from the House today. I regard this as a serious breach of privilege in that members will be prevented from carrying out some of their parliamentary duties. Important correspondence from electors requiring urgent attention by members will not be delivered. I do not know how long the dispute will last. However, with the rising of the House tomorrow for two weeks for the Easter period, correspondence to and from members may be delayed for some considerable time.  Mr Speaker,  I raise this matter at the earliest opportunity and ask you to advise me whether this serious disruption to the parliamentary duties of members of this House constitutes a prima facie breach of privilege. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House of the progress being made towards the introduction of a beef classification scheme? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. In view of reports appearing in the media concerning export development proposals, can the Minister indicate when he will be able to announce details of the Government 's decisions in this regard? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. I ask: What would be the effect on the Australian beef industry of proposed action by the United States further to restrict beef imports? What action is the Government taking in response to this new threat to Australian producers? 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources: Are there any signs of progress in the discussions on a new international wheat agreement? If progress towards reaching that agreement has been unsatisfactory, can the Minister advise what has caused the talks to bog down? 
-The purpose of the Wool Industry Amendment Bill 1978 is to amend the statutory accounting provisions with respect to the floor price scheme for wool to include the 1978-79 season. When the floor price scheme was originally introduced it was designed to operate for the 1974-75 season only. The accounting arrangements made in the legislation for the scheme were restricted to operations for that period. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  said that he cannot understand why this was so. It was the former Government's legislation and the Government has to introduce this legislation every year. If it were designed in such a way as not to require this, then other than for the accounting provisions there would be no need to extend the provisions of the Bill. 
There is a necessity to bring these matters forward each year. Obviously a scheme of this sort has to be financed if it is to be brought forward. It cannot operate without finance. The subsequent extensions of the scheme to include the 1975-76, the 1976-77 and the 1977-78 wool seasons required corresponding legislative amendments to the accounting provisions. You must have those accounting provisions to make the legislation work. 
Consequent upon the Government's decision to extend the scheme further to include the 1978-79 wool season it is necessary to extend the coverage of the accounting arrangements to include wool purchased under the scheme in that year. Separate amendments to the Wool Tax Acts will continue the growers' contribution to the market support fund during 1978-79. My friend the honourable member for Riverina suggested that the money put in by the woolgrowers should be paid back to them. If that suggestion were adopted what sort of a fund would we have and where would the money come from to operate it? It is the growers who contribute the funds, and this has always been the case. The honourable member did not suggest in what other way this scheme could be financed. We have extended this scheme and we will continue to do just that. The Opposition has moved the following amendment. 
. whilst not opposing the Bill the House calls upon the Government to present to Parliament and the industry a paper on the advisability of establishing a revolving market support fund. 
Apparently the Labor Party proposes under its amendment that woolgrowers will continue to contribute funds. How does the Labor Party propose to return funds to the woolgrowers if this fund is to be maintained? All that is going to be returned to the woolgrowers is the money over and above that amount which is required to operate the fund to support the wool price scheme. So far as I am concerned I do not want the Parliament or the industry to present a paper to me on the advisability on establishing a revolving market support fund. I believe that the whole idea of a revolving fund is to enable contributions over and above the amount required to operate the fund to be returned to the contributors. Obviously if this scheme is to continue funds have to flow into and flow out of the fund. 
I agree with the honourable member for Riverina that it is desirable to put into the pockets of primary producers generally, including woolgrowers, amounts of money that we can make available to them. In the second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said that it was desirable to keep records of the levy paid by growers so that there would be a basis to formulate the operation of the revolving fund. There has to be a record of the amounts paid into the fund to enable an equitable return of funds to the growers. If there are no records no one will know how much it is due to be returned to the growers according to the amounts they have contributed to the fund. That is what it all boils down to. I firmly believe that a revolving fund should be established. It is a matter of deciding the actual amount that should be retained in the fund to ensure that there is sufficient money available to back up the floor price scheme at the level which is decided on from time to time. 
Criticism has been made of the Government's decision to set a floor price of not less than 284c per kilogram clean. The honourable member for Riverina also referred to this aspect. The Government has given a clear indication that the price will not be less than 284c per kilogram. There is nothing to prevent a higher floor price from being established if market conditions justify a higher floor price being established, which is what I hope will eventuate. In the meantime, the woolgrowers know what the minimum price will be. They have been given an assurance that they will get at least 284c per kilogram clean for the whole of the chp average. It also is true, as the Minister has said, that the Government has given an undertaking that floor price levels will be set for two years in advance in order to ensure a continuity of stability in the marketing of the Australian wool chp, and that is another important factor in respect of stability in primary production marketing systems. There is a very great need for some security in all avenues of primary industry. 
One of the great difficulties that confront the beef industry today is the fact that there is great uncertainty about prices. The beef industry is a very difficult industry to provide with the security that has been given to the wool industry and indeed to other industries because of the peculiarities of the beef industry such as the storage of a perishable product compared with say wool, wheat or sugar for that matter. The problem of providing price security in the beef industry is one which has caused very great concern, but I am pleased that the wool industry has received the benefits that this scheme provides with a guaranteed floor price as has been mentioned tonight. 
Those people who are prepared to live, as the honourable member for Riverina would know, in remote areas where many of the advantages other people have by way of medical assistance, educational advantages and cultural entertainment are not readily available to them, are deserving of this sort of benefit. They live in remote areas under very difficult conditions. If it is possible for any government to provide benefits to that section of the community it should do so because these people justly deserve help. The sympathy of Labor Party supporters in relation to the problems of people who live in remote areas was very adequately demonstrated when they completely abolished the petrol price equalisation scheme that the members who sit in the National Country Party corner of this House and my friends in the Liberal Party so earnestly strove to introduce. It was a matter of very great concern and it is the time that we have seen a reintroduction of that very great benefit to the people in remote areas about whom we have heard so much talk in regard to putting money back into their pockets. 
-You would not know the first thing about it. You would not know the A-B-C of the industry. So if you want to help us convince the people of Australia that we are the people behind the wool industry, continue interjecting because you will help me very much. However, I do not need your help. It is really not of any advantage to me. I do not want to see your party disadvantaged any more than it is at the present time because I am a very generous son of a person. The fact is that there are problems confronting the wool industry but they are not as great as the problems facing some other industries. There are common problems that confront the people in outlying areas and it is necessary that we should do all that we can to assist those people. 
The establishment of a revolving fund will be one of those things which will bring about some of the advantages that we are trying to give them by returning to them some of their contributions, and that is the angle that I want to emphasise in relation to these Bills. If we are to have decentralisation we must assist those people who live in outlying areas. It is vitally important that we should assist them. I hope that if the Labor Party is as anxious as we are in trying to assist these people by bringing in such things as the fuel equalisation scheme it will not, if this country ever has the misfortune to have another Labor Government, abolish the scheme as soon as it gets into office. I hope that the people who are engaged in the wool industry will remember that too. 
It was not my intention to talk quite as long as I have because I felt that these were only machinery Bills, but I have been encouraged to draw attention to certain aspects because of some of the remarks made by honourable members opposite. I agree that the floor price scheme for wool was criticised by many people, but that was only because it was felt by some that the taxpayers of Australia might have to make some contribution to it. That illustrates just how little regard is given sometimes to those people living in the outlying areas who carry the national responsibility of utilising every area of productive capacity in this nation. When it comes to implementing a scheme such as this, we hear a lot of whingeing on the part of people in metropolitan areas who do not understand the difficulties faced by people in outlying areas and who do not understand, recognise or admit the great advantage offered to this nation by having those people in those outlying areas. 
A lot of criticism was made of the scheme initially but when it was found that the taxpayers would not be disadvantaged those who criticised the scheme initially withdrew their opposition to it. When it was shown at the very beginning that a reasonable profit could be made as a result of the implementation of the reserve price plan the criticism died away. Those people who criticised it initially were not prepared to make a contribution. They were prepared to let the industry help itself and that is as far as they were prepared to go. That is as far as many people who oppose primary industry generally are prepared to go today, much to their discredit. The reserve price plan has done a great deal of good right from the beginning. It has put confidence into the wool market and thereby enabled relative prices to be maintained in the various categories of wool over the years, offsetting the demand for different categories at different times. It has been of great advantage to the wool industry because it has enabled the levelling off of prices when there has been a falling off in some categories of wool, which does happen. The reserve price plan has evened that out. It has been of real advantage without being of any cost. The degree of stability that has resulted from the introduction of the floor price plan and, before that, the reserve price plan has been of great importance not only in the area of levelling out prices but also because by having a floor price established the buyers have gained confidence, knowing that their competitors will have to pay at least the floor price for wool. That has also made a contribution to the general improvement in wool prices. 
The continuation of this scheme by the introduction of these Bills is another example of the keen desire of the Government to endeavour to provide, as far as possible, a reasonable return to primary producers. I will not take second place to anyone in my desire to ensure that the Government implements these benefits and provides all the advantages it can for primary producers. In common with all other products which depend on world prices, the price received for wool in the world market depends on the law of supply and demand. We have to look at that. Even though we have a floor price, it is important that we promote the sale of wool because if it falls below the floor price and we have to level it out with the funds that are available we will again hear the criticisms that we have heard before. The floor price that is operating now has done a good deal towards effectively maintaining the price of wool in the world market because of the confidence it has engendered. 
It has been a pleasure for me to rise tonight to support the people in outlying areas, who, as I have said previously, face many disadvantages. As time goes by, the disparity between the advantages of living in the metropolitan areas and of living in those areas- I refer particularly to the cost of education and the difficulty of getting to places where specialist medical attention is available- is something that we will have to consider further. The high cost of communications also is something that we will have to consider. I hope that every member of this Parliament will be prepared to lend his support to some consideration being given in every field to the people in those outlying areas. The enormously high cost of telephonic communications, including the cost of installing telephones, is but one of the matters that have to be considered if we are to attain the decentralisation which we are all so fond of talking about but which we are very reluctant to support with the finance that is necessary to bring it to fruition. 
-As has been said by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  these Bills are designed to give legislative expression to the Commonwealth Government's commitment to upgrade the Commonwealth Employment Service. It is important that there should be change in the CES. This is recognised by the Government. The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  drew attention to the fact that a system designed in 1946 is trying to cope with the problems and difficulties that exist in the area of employment in 1978. 1 know that it is very easy to criticise someone else for not doing something, but I think it is worth reminding the Parliament that during the three years in which the Labor Government was in office it persisted with the 1946 system in regard to the CES. It had the opportunity during its term of office to do something about it. Criticism has been levelled at this Government about the advantage to be derived from calling for reports. I wonder what reports that Government called for. 
I believe that members of the Australian Labor Party who now are so critical of this system might at least have found the time within the framework of their legislative timetable when they were in office to introduce legislation which might have been of advantage to the community at large. Certainly, Liberal and National Country Party governments used this system for a long time when they were in office. I am quite happy to concede that point. There is one factor which must be taken into consideration in relation to the criticism of this report. Indeed, it provides some answer to why we were perhaps able to live with this system up until the time that the Labor Government came to office. I refer to the fact that when we were in power, there was a great deal of stability in the economy. 
The urgent need for a revision of our Commonwealth Employment Service and the great tragedy of the extent of unemployment which exists today and which we as a government are finding it difficult to cope with have arisen as a result of the galloping inflation that accompanied and was brought about by the policies of the Labor Government during the time it was in office. Many difficulties and problems flow from inflation. When labour costs rise at the rapid rate they rose during the years of the Labor 
Government there is a great incentive to introduce labour saving devices into all sorts of industries. With this increasing tendency, it can be seen that inflation in itself and the problem that it creates in industry is accenuated. I will not elaborate further on that point but there are many other factors which I could mention. 
I believe that while we may not have done a great deal to improve the structure of the Commonwealth Employment Service during our earlier years in office and perhaps it has taken us a couple of years to make these changes, the need for them was not nearly so great. But that need was very evident during the period the Labor Government was in office. We should not be prepared to accept from honourable members opposite the argument that we have taken too long to have this report made and to act upon it. lt is very easy for honourable members to make assumptions about how the recommendations of the Norgard report should have been implemented and about whether the legislation is the best result that could have come from that report Honourable members on this side of the House argue quite strongly that the legislation we are now debating in the House and which has been taken from the report will be of great advantage to the operations of our Commonwealth Employment Service. Certainly, there is no question about the need for the most effective employment service that we can have in this country. 
Unemployment is a tragedy in a very severe sense in a great many homes throughout the country. Perhaps it is the greatest tragedy of all amongst our young people. An urgent need clearly exists for the development of the most effective Commonwealth Employment Service that we can possibly introduce. The Government has taken that responsibility on its shoulders. It called for a report and has introduced legislation which the Government and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations believe will go a long way towards making the Commonwealth Employment Service a modern type of structure which will serve the community and help to alleviate the problems of unemployment. It will do this by providing a type of employment service which will enable the greatest number of job opportunities to be made available to those people who are so urgently in need of them and who so keenly desire them. I feel that at times a great deal of criticism is made of unemployed people in this country who do not really want to accept employment. Perhaps that is true. Nevertheless, let us be fair and say that many people who are unemployed are very genuinely seeking to obtain employment and would do so if it were available to them. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension oi me sitting for dinner I was discussing the Bills which are the subject of this debate and the role that is being played by the Commonwealth Employment Service in endeavouring to provide the jobs that are so urgently needed by people in this country. It serves as a medium by which they can be placed in employment. A point that I think needs stressing is that the Commonwealth Employment Service is not just an avenue through which people can find work- that is one of its functions- but it also directs itself to finding the type of employee suited to the work that the employer offers. That is one of the important factors in enabling our unemployment figures to be brought down. If people are placed in occupations in which they have had experience or have a general capacity to cope with the requirements they are more likely to stay employed. They are more likely to give a degree of satisfaction and contribute to the enterprise in which they are engaged and so become more permanently established in that particular job. 
Despite all that has been said in this debate about the restructuring of our Commonwealth Employment Service, about the advances that have been made and about the need for those advances, what must be constantly borne in mind- I recognise that the Minister made this point in his second reading speech- is the need for stability in the economy. It is of vital necessity to have a sound base for the provision and continuation of employment opportunities. Without that, all the most modern types of employment services cannot cope. It is within the private sector that some 75 per cent of job opportunities are available now. It is that factor, too, which aids the building of a sound economy. 
I heard tonight of the need for funds to be made available for direct employment. That can be done and I am not denying that there is some place for it. But the basis of defeating the unemployment problem, the basis of getting the figures down and keeping them down, is a stable and prosperous economy. That can be achieved only if we defeat inflation. Despite the criticism of too much stress being placed on our counter inflationary measures, the fact is that under the present system we are moving into a position where more confidence will be instilled into the business community. That is the way by which we will get expansion and, through that expansion, will be provided with those job opportunities that are so earnestly desired in this country and which we so sorely need. 
There are one or two factors to which I want to refer. They relate to my own particular area and similar areas and maybe also to other areas. It is something which I have come across and which I think is worth stressing. Due, to some extent at any rate, to unfavourable seasonal conditions and to low world prices prevailing in relation to primary industry in particular, there has developed a need for a new category of support for people on nil or very low incomes. This is becoming increasingly important. I refer to the landholder who, although presently in need of support, wants to remain on his farm or property and prepare land for crops or look after stock. If the crops are successful if the stock can be maintained and if those people can be carried overthere are a lot of 'ifs', but surely we can expect that prices will improve- those people will become self-reliant and will go off the labour market. Unless something of that nature is provided they will have to get out. They will not be able to remain and look after their interests but will have to move out and go on to the labour market. If they are capable of handling jobs, as many of them are, they will take jobs that should be available to other people. This matter should be looked at very carefully. Those types of people are presently entitled to register for unemployment benefits and if work is found for them they have to take it. That is understood, and I accept it. But the fact is that if they do that, as I have mentioned, they have to forgo the income which they have been trying to live on and which no doubt in the future, on the law of averages, will increase. 
The household support scheme introduced by the Government goes some way towards coping with that situation, but it has its limitations. If a person looks to benefit through that scheme he has first of all to agree that he will phase himself out of primary industry. If he has not done that after six months, the money that he has received becomes a loan. That problem in itself is not impossible to overcome and in some instances it has been done. But the scheme is not working in the way that it ought to work. It is not doing the job that I believe it was intended to do. I urge the Minister and the Government to look at this situation. Perhaps the Minister, in conjunction with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  or the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  could consider the possibility of preventing further unemployment through a scheme of that kind. I believe it would be well justified and I hope that the matter will be taken seriously. I have discussed such a scheme with other Ministers and I believe that there is a great need for it. It is becoming more apparent as time goes on that that sort of benefit, if it were to be provided, would be very worthwhile. In that way we would be able to keep people off the labour market, and it is just as important that they be kept off the labour market in the first place as it is to provide them with employment if they have to leave the land. 
I think the honourable member is a very good judge and I commend his judgment. The Minister mentioned in his second reading speech the desire to have a decentralised Commonwealth Employment Service. I commend him for that, but I suggest that the CES offices should be located in a greater number of country towns. In some areas there is a long distance between the offices and in those places agencies are endeavouring to cope with the situation. If we had more Commonwealth Employment Service offices in our rural towns they would serve a dual purpose. The people in the area would get the benefit of qualified people assisting them to obtain employment, and many of the CES officers are doing a great job. We would also be able to keep the people in the towns. The establishment of more offices would serve the dual purpose of providing a decentralised scheme and contributing to decentralisation generally. This is a very serious problem that is affecting this nation greatly. I regret that it has not been possible to overcome the problem more rapidly, but I trust that the Government will continue to pursue the sort of economic strategy that it has been pursuing. I am sure that through that strategy and through that alone we will be able to return to the sort of employment figures that we deserve to have. The previous Government embarked on a scheme of providing direct employment but it did not work. It might have worked for a while but there was no continuity or final security. The first thing we have to do- the Government is attempting to do it- is to get our inflation trend even further down. Through that and through other measures that we are providing- export incentives and these sorts of measures- we will have a greater final and continuing effect on unemployment than will any much more costly effort made by providing more and more funds for direct employment, although, as I have said before, I do not condemn that approach. 
I commend the Minister and the Government on the introduction of these Bills. I only hope for the benefit of those people who are looking for and are deserving of employment that this scheme meets with the success that it certainly deserves. I support the Bills. 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether he is aware of the difficulties which people in many areas are having in retaining a satisfactory frequency of mail services, of the almost impossible cost of connecting telephone services, and of the many towns and districts that do not enjoy satisfactory television reception? Will the Minister undertake to make a visit to at least some of those areas to hear at first hand the justifiable claims of their residents? 
I support the comments made by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  in relation to sales tax on freight. I was pleased to hear some expressions of support for that proposition from honourable members opposite. It is one of the most iniquitous taxes which is imposed, and it is a situation which certainly should be remedied by the Government without undue delay. I also commend the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  on his suggestion that there should be a chair in some university which deals with skin diseases. I think that the number of people who are affected by skin diseases fully justifies that being done. I am very happy to support the suggestion he made. 
The purpose of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classification) Amendment Bill is, in part, to give effect to the announcement that sunscreen preparations which provide effective protection from damaging ultra-violet rays would be exempted from sales tax. I think it is obvious to almost everyone that this action needs to be taken. It should have been taken previously. When it is related to the incidence of skin cancer in this country each year, it is patently obvious that this action should be taken. Drugs and medicines are already exempt from sales tax, so I believe that sunscreen preparations should also be exempted, provided, of course, that they meet the requirements of being effective in doing what they are meant to do. They have to be sold for use as a substance to be applied to the skin for the purpose of screening out solar ultra-violet rays. Also they have to provide an acceptable level of protection. I commend the Government on introducing this legislation. I am sure that it has the support of the House generally. 
Later in my remarks I shall refer to the statistics relating to the incidence of cancer in the community generally, particularly in Queensland, which is my home State. The medical facts in relation to skin cancer and its association with exposure to ultra-violet rays are such that I cannot deal with them all. The incidence and the mortality rate of skin cancer in Australia and the extent to which the citizens of Queensland are the most affected are important matters also and must be recognised. Both socially and occupationally Australians can be expected to be exposed to ultra-violet radiation. This is the case, particularly when someone is occupied in sport, especially swimming. I might say that in the outlying areas, which do not have the number of cloudy days that some of the other areas have, a lot of people are exposed to ultraviolet radiation. Therefore it is necessary that every encouragement be given to those people to take all the preventative measures which may be available to them. 
The background data that I have certainly indicates the need for the use of every effective protection that we can provide. The majority of the sunscreening agents have been tested at the University of Queensland for the purpose of determining their relative efficacy in cutting out the transmission of ultra-violet rays. Whilst the efficacy in use depends upon the frequency of application and the conditions of exposure of the body- for example, heavy perspiration or swimming, and rubbing off on beach towels or clothing- those preparations which have the greatest barrier effect in such testing, other things being equal, will offer the greatest protection to the user. I hope that some note will be taken of these factors. 
Within the many preparations regarded as being effective barriers, there is a wide range of costs. Obviously at all levels of costs it is important that the increased costs due to sales tax should not act as a deterrent to the use of an agent which will decrease the incidence of skin cancer. The removal of sales tax under this Bill should be regarded as a positive measure for preventive health. The Bill will be of particular benefit to the residents of and the tourists visiting the northern States where the incidence of ultraviolet radiation is at its highest. However, as well as benefiting some sun lovers in the southern States it will encourage the use of sunscreening agents by skiers on southern snows during the imminent winter season. Therefore the speedy action of the Government in removing this tax on these effective preparations should be commended by everyone. 
The serious effects of exposure to the sun involve the development in some individuals of some skin cancers of three major types. Two are non-melanoma types and the other is a melanoma type. Together, the first two types of skin cancer constitute the most frequently detected cancer in man. They are also the most easily and most successfully treated human cancers. Something that should be promoted is the early treatment of any type of cancer. It is fairly obvious that early treatment of skin cancer should be undertaken as soon as possible. On the other hand, melanomas are a serious life-threatening hazard. Recent information indicates that only two-thirds of new melanoma patients survive for five years. Most non-melanoma skin cancers occur on lightskinned persons, particularly those who repeatedly burn with little or no tanning. The non-melanoma skin cancers are mainly found on exposed areas, especially on the head, the neck, the arms and the hands. It is a very distressing sight to see, as I have, those who suffer from this type of cancer- particularly people in the western areas. It of course is something that, if it can be prevented, should be prevented. I refer not only to the humanitarian aspects of it. I refer to the very great need for people who are engaged in industries where this sort of incident is likely to happen to be protected. They should be encouraged to use that protection. 
Population-based incidence data, from Queensland, giving the incidence rate per unit area of skin, shows significant excess melanomas on the generally or occasionally exposed sites of the face, leg, neck and arm in women and of the face, ear, neck and back in men. They also show proportionally fewer tumours on parts of the body that are virtually never exposed. The accumulated dose of critical ultra-violet radiation is likely to be greater for those living nearer the equator- and that is understandable. Tables of melanoma and skin cancer mortality in the eastern States of Australia show a gradient between Queensland and Tasmania- again, with the incidence being higher in Queensland and that is very easily understood. 
On my information, there are no really adequate skin cancer data available for Australia. That could be disputed, but that is my information. However, I understand that new cases of skin cancer recorded in Australia each year may be as high as 100,000. At least 50,000 new cases of histologically proven cases of non-melanoma skin cancer were seen by private skin specialists alone in the period June 1975 to June 1976. This situation certainly should give rise to concern. So in addition to this legislation being introduced to provide an exemption from sales tax on these protective creams, I hope that those people who have the opportunity to dispense news might take advantage of demonstrating to the community at large- and they will be serving a very useful purpose in doing so- the figures that are available in relation to the amount of skin cancer that is incurred. Apart from the human factor, which of course is the main one, one must look at the economic factor related to treating people who perhaps would not have needed to be treated had they known how to prevent this cancer from occurring, or at least had they been able to use whatever measures were available to do so. 
I have here a table setting out the melanoma mortality rates per 100,000 for the years 1971-75. In Queensland, the rate was 21.2 male and 14.2 female; New South Wales, 20.6 male and 12.6 female; Victoria, 1 1.9 male and 1 1.6 female; and Tasmania, 10. 1 male and 6.6 female. Other skin cancer mortality in the eastern States from 1971-1975 on the same ratio per 100,000 was : Queensland, 13.3 male and 4.4 female; New South Wales- and note the very big drop- 7.6 male and 2.6 female; Victoria, 5.7 male and 3.7 female; and Tasmania, 5.0 male and 4.6 female. Those figures indicate the need for both the removal of the sales tax and the promotion of a campaign to ask people to use those preparations. I should like to point out that this Bill states: 
In the interests of economic administration, the law provides that sales tax and duty are not to be collected on imported goods where only small amounts of revenue are involved. 
Therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek your indulgence to refer to another matter in relation to sales tax exemption. I refer to the need for exemption from sales tax for a machine known as the optacon machine which gives aid to the blind. It has been tried. It is a print reading machine. Whilst there have been some arguments that the exemption from sales tax for this machine might benefit those people who can afford it, irrespective of an exemption, in my opinion it is just a case of an exemption from a charge that the Government imposes. I think that people who suffer in this way should not have to pay sales tax on the machine. The number of people involved is comparatively small. The cost to the Government would be very small indeed but it would be of great benefit to those who are able to use the machine. At least we can do that much to help those people who need such a machine. 
I hope I have said enough to indicate the tremendous need for the encouragement, by whatever means possible, of the use of sunscreening preparations which are effective in the performance of the duty for which they are required. I also wish to commend the Government for this measure. I hope that in conjunction with the sales tax exemptions there is that encouragement of the use of these preparations about which I have talked. I also agree with the point made by honourable members on both sides of the House that the general application of sales tax is something that should be very carefully reviewed. I feel this is something to which the Government should give very earnest consideration. I support and commend the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I feel that the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  made a few contradictions, something for which he condemned the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  He criticised the Minister for Health for presenting his second reading speech in such a way as to indicate that the Government intends, as it does, to cut the costs of the scheme to some extent and, at the same time, to introduce a benefit for people living in isolated areas. The honourable member for Bonython went on to say that he supported this benefit. If there is a contradiction, then the honourable member supports that contradiction. In supporting the provisions contained in the National Health Amendment Bill, there is no question in my mind- I have a fair experience of people living in difficult and poor circumstances- that amongst the most under-privileged people in Australia today are the people who will benefit by this new arrangement. I commend the Bill without reservation. The provisions contained in this legislation are a concession to the people living in isolated areas. The honourable member for Bonython made a great point of this. This legislation is bringing about a state of equity that did not exist prior to its introduction. 
I commend the Minister and the Government for having the courage to introduce this benefit at a cost of some $7m at a time when its main objective has been to restrict government expenditure and try to control the galloping inflation that was inflicted on this country by the reckless and incompetent economic policies of the previous Government. There is no doubt about that. Honourable members opposite should go back to the authorities and newspapers that they quote from time to time to see what they were saying about the Labor Government when inflation was running rampant. The people who were hurt most by inflation were the people whom honourable members opposite purport to represent. The people in any country, not only in Australia, who are most disadvantaged and who suffer most as a result of raging inflation are the poor people. Honourable members opposite can argue about that if they wish. I do not want to continue in that vein but it is an accepted fact throughout the world. 
The National Health Amendment Bill, which is the Bill to which I shall speak in the main, fulfills an undertaking given by the Government to assist people living in isolated areas who are in need of specialist medical attention. For long enough the cost of travel and accommodation has deterred people from seeking essential medical attention as early as desirable. Surely it is recognised that early treatment is necessary and, in many cases essential, for the successful treatment and cure of people who are suffering from illnesses that require specialist medical attention. Early treatment so often is an essential factor in the' restoration of their health. For that reason this Bill is to be very warmly commended, not only from the economic point of view but also from the humanitarian angle. Worry about the cost of travelling to where specialist medical attention is available adds to the burden of people of modest means who are ill. I have seen examples of this. I am speaking from experience, which is one of the greatest teachers of all. It is for that reason that my colleague the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  the  chairman  of our health committee, has given way to me in order that I may speak, on behalf of those people, of the great need for this measure. I commend the Government for having introduced it. 
The isolated patients travel and accommodation scheme will bring a large degree of economic justice to people living long distances from specialist medical attention. It is not possible to have specialists stationed in areas with small populations so the only alternative for these people is to travel to where the specialists are situated. I commend the Government very warmly for introducing this benefit to patients living in those isolated areas. If we are going to talk about equity, even though these people will receive this additional benefit they will still be required to pay $20 towards the cost of their fare and they will still suffer some disadvantage in comparison with patients living in the metropolitan area. 
I agree that there is a gap. This is one of the things I want to emphasise very strongly. So far as equity is concerned, let us consider a patient who must seek this medical attention. That person may be a parent. Not only does that person have to travel and stay away from home; he or she must make provision for their family while they are away. The family must be attended to. That is reasonable but it is sometimes forgotten. When I speak of the aims and objectives of people living in isolated areas, often I feel that their circumstances are not understood and that lip service is given to the principle of equity. People agree with this and then promptly forget about it. Too many people in this country do that. 
I emphasise again the humanitarian aspects of this Bill. In this day and age people should not have to suffer from lack of specialist medical attention by virtue of the fact that the cost of travel and accommodation is beyond their capacity. As I have said before, when they have to travel to seek attention they have the worry of financial problems added to their illnesses, which does not help to restore them to health. People with limited finance living in isolated areas who need specialist medical attention can be counted amongst the most under-privileged people in this nation. They need and deserve the assistance that this Government is giving them under this Bill. Another point I want to make is that it should never be forgotten that a responsibility rests upon the shoulders of the whole of the Australian community to utilise the productive capacity of all the areas of this nation. Because of that we owe a debt of gratitude to those people who are prepared to live in areas where medical, educational and recreational facilities are either non-existent or very limited in scope. I have concentrated on that aspect of the Bills. 
One cannot speak about medical assistance to people in isolated areas without referring to the wonderful work of the Royal Flying Doctor Service. The Government has given financial assistance to the Service as well as to the community health program and the mobile dental clinic conducted under the school dental program. I would like to join with the Minister for Health who paid tribute in his second reading speech to those people employed in these services who provide such essential care to people living in isolated areas. 
The honourable member for Kennedy referred to  Dr Harvey  Sutton, who, in his own right, has done such a lot for the people in those outback areas of his electorate in particular. The people in the outback are to be complemented on what they have done, despite the problems and difficulties that they have to put up with and despite the adverse seasonal conditions and low prices that many of them have to contend with, in relation to providing funds for the Royal Flying Doctor Service. The people in the outback organise functions to raise funds for the Service. Among the most renowned of those, particularly in my electorate of Maranoa, are the functions held at Thylungra Station, which is situated between Quilpie and Windorah. They have been outstandingly successful financially and socially and demonstrate the deep appreciation of the people in that area for the skill, dedication and service of the Royal Flying Doctor Service. 
The financial assistance given by the Government to those areas that I have mentioned is something for which it should be commended and something which is helping to provide a better health service and to maintain the health of the community in those areas. The isolated areas which will be serviced by the Bill that I am referring to can be identified by reference to the local government areas described in regulations under the National Health Act. As would have to be the case if this legislation is to be something for the people it is specifically designed to help, urban and near urban areas will be excluded from the scheme. To become eligible for the benefits under the scheme a person must be referred for specialist medical treatment and has to live at least 200 kilometres from the centre where the specialist treatment is available. That is the way in which the legislation it defined. I think it is a reasonable designation of where the benefit should apply. The patient must obtain prior approval of the Director-General of Health and satisfy him that the relevant criteria to qualify have been met. That is another example of the way in which the Government has endeavoured to provide this benefit and at the same time to ensure that the benefit is not abused. But those qualifications will be dispensed with, and it is essential that they should be, where there is an emergency. In such circumstances subsequent approval can be obtained. So an emergency situation is covered as far as that is concerned. 
The travel allowance payable normally will be an economy class fare by the most direct route of road or rail service and will be met fully, except for a $20 contribution by the patient to the fare. I would like to make a comment with regard to the way in which these fares and the provision for travel are provided for under the Bill. The information I have is that if a patient travels by road and that is the most direct means of surface transport- it has to have that qualification- a car mileage allowance will be paid at the Public Service rate. I ask the Minister to confirm whether that in fact is so. 
If it is correct, it means that such patients will be getting a fair remuneration for using their car and coming in the most direct way. If the patient travels by road when rail is the most direct means of surface transport the lesser of the two amounts- that is, the rail fare or the car mileage allowance- will be paid. So again a check is to be made to ensure that there is no abuse of the privileges that are being provided for these people, who certainly deserve them. If a patient travels by air without the necessary medical practitioner's certificate the allowance for the most direct scheduled surface transportwhether this be rail, car or bus- will be paid, but if the medical practitioner decides and will confirm that it is necessary for the patient to travel by air, that provision will be made for the patient. 
There is a great deal in this Bill which is going to be of benefit to those people in the outback areas. I make no apology for spending the time that I have spent in elaborating on it. I think it is high time that those who represent the people in the outlying areas spoke up and let it be known that they stand for people who are underprivileged in this country. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  mentioned the underprivileged people in the city areas. I recognise that they are to be found there, too, and I accept the fact that they need to be provided for. But too often the people living in outback areas, in isolated areas where there is not a great vote capacity, are forgotten. I believe that it is the duty of the people representing them to come in here and tell others of their needs. 
-The honourable member for Prospect cannot be here too often because I constantly do it. He should come into this chamber a little more often. He would be a little better educated if he did so, particularly when my colleagues and I are speaking. It would be very beneficial to him. I commend it to him very warmly indeed. 
I am concerned that the patients who qualify for assistance under this scheme might feel that they would have to pay for their hospital care in the same way as nursing home patients now do. I draw the attention of the Minister to this matter. There are scaremongers who are trying to give this impression. They do not seem to have any worry about the concern they cause to people suffering from illnesses. I would like the Minister to give an assurance, so that there can be no doubt about it, that the payment for hospital care will not apply to these patients and so allay the fears that the scaremongers are trying to create. It is only the long term patients for whom no nursing care benefits are available. Yet already we find these rumours going around. I hope they can be scotched. I would like the Minister, in the course of his reply to what I have said, to comment on what I have said in that direction. 
There are three other Bills before the House but I do not intend to deal  with them.  I have concentrated on the particular factor of the benefits that are being provided- after a very long time, too- to the people living in outback areas. Wherever any benefit is provided for them we find that there is no opposition to it. I appeal to the members of this House to get behind the people who are trying to provide benefits and services in the outlying areas because there is a need for them and they are justified. We help underprivileged people not only in this country but also in other countries throughout the world. While we do that I hope we will never forget the people who contribute so largely on a per capita basis to the gross domestic production of this country on an economic basis, the assistance that is being given to them on this occasion by this Bill and on any other occasion is justified. It is not a benefit that they do not deserve, that they have not earned. When one looks at the lack of benefits that are available to them in comparison with other areas- even where I live for that matterone can see that they are not getting more than their fair share of government expenditure. I say to the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  that the money that is being provided under this Bill- $7m- is some compensation to those people for the many things that they lacktelevision, proper communications, air services and mail services. You name it and you will find it. 
-Roads, as the honourable member from Calare said. They are being denied these things. They are living under conditions that most people in this House and most people listening to me tonight would not be prepared to live under, but it is a way of life for them. I say thank God we have got people with that determination, with that desire and with that appreciation of that way of life to fulfil the responsibility that I have already stated in this speech, that is, the responsibility of utilising all the area of this great nation of ours and thereby preventing the envious eyes of others who would say: 'If Australians are not prepared to do it, we will come in and take over'. On behalf of those good people I say thank you to the Government and the Minister for the benefits that those people will accrue from the Bill that has been brought forward for debate tonight. I commend the Bill. 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of reports that the Japanese Government has decided to replace the present arrangements for imports of chilled beef with a scheme which could more closely regulate this trade? What action is the Government taking to ensure that Australia's interests in the chilled beef market in Japan are protected? 
-The proposed select committee to inquire into and report upon the Family Law Act will serve a very useful purpose. The Act has been in operation long enough to justify an examination of its operations, to see whether it is fulfilling to the maximum degree its aims and objectives. It is essential that a careful examination of the Act should be made. I do not concede categorically that just because someone says a marriage is breaking down it is going to break down, irrespective of the law. That may be so, but one of the important aspects of the proposed examination of the operation of the Act should be to see whether or not measures which would assist in prevention of the breakdown may be provided therein. 
My concern is for the preservation of family life as the cornerstone of society. In our examination of the Family Law Act we should have this basic concept in mind. In listening to the debate I have found that a good deal of it has represented evidence that might be given before the committee when it is brought into being. Any examination of the operation of the Act should view as a matter of utmost importance the need for the preservation of family life. Too many people seem to be hell bent on providing every possible avenue, indeed almost every encouragement, towards the breaking up of family life, with its consequent often tragic disadvantages to the children of the marriage. It is against that background that I propose that the committee should look very carefully into the counselling provisions of the Act. 
One aspect of the review of the Act and of its effect on society should be a careful evaluation of the humanitarian aspect of its operation. It may be, and has been, argued that there is a need to dissolve marriages that have reached a stage of irretrievable breakdown. In fact, that is incorporated in the Act, but side by side with that there is also a need to encourage people to get advice on their marriage problems. This gets back to the aspect of the Act to which I referred earlier. We know the stresses and strains that do attach to marriage. The aim should be to give people who have entered into marriage every encouragement to use whatever marriage counselling organisation may be available to them. I strongly recommend that the marriage counselling provisions of the Act, and their effectiveness, should be examined carefully with the object of ascertaining whether any means of preventing the breaking up of marriage over and above what is at present provided, could be added. That is the area in which I wish to concentrate my remarks tonight. 
Quite obviously, the humanitarian aspect of the breaking up of marriage, and the effect on any resulting family, is in my opinion the very first aspect of the operations of the Act that should be carefully examined. In this regard, special emphasis should be placed on the philosophy accepted in so many areas, that prevention is better than cure. Indeed, the dissolution of marriage is not a cure in itself, whereas the successful bringing of people again together in marriage does represent a cure. It is that aspect that I emphasise tonight in this debate about an examination of the Family Law Act. 
I believe that it is most desirable that the Act should be looked at by the proposed joint select committee and that an examination should be carried out of the services that are provided in those areas under the Act I agree with much of what has been said in this debate tonight. Many aspects of the Act have been discussed and I believe that they should be carefully examined by the proposed committee. My contention, upon which I base my remarks, is that the preservation of family life is important and has a beneficial effect on society as a whole. It is the preservation of family life which gives me most concern. Many people, including myself, believe that the preservation of family life is a very important factor in maintaining a stable society- a society which will give the maximum number of children the advantages that only a normal family life can provide. 
I acknowledge quite freely that success in life has been achieved by many people who have suffered disadvantages in many ways, including the disadvantage of not having the benefit of a normal family life. But they are people who overcame the problems they faced. I believe it behoves this Parliament and this society to do all within their power to see that children throughout the nation are given every opportunity to make the success of life that we would all wish them to make. 
Very little legislation, if any, cannot be improved. I hope that an examination of this Act will result in an improvement of it. I trust that an examination by the proposed committee will result in correcting the shortcomings that might have been disclosed in aspects of the legislation. As far as I am concerned, particular attention should be paid to the preservation of marriage and family life to the maximum extent possible. I realise that family life and marriage come under increasing pressures in what we call the modern way of life. The modern way of life- or progress, as it is sometimes called- is something about which I have some reservations.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would say that the level of noise in the chamber is not quite as low as it might be. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Maranoa is quite right in drawing attention to the excessively high noise level in the House. Every honourable member has a right to be heard in silence. I ask honourable members to respect that right. 
I was about to conclude,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  We are debating a very serious matter and I believe that we should take seriously any undue interruption or distraction. I regard marriage and family life as one of the very important aspects of community life in this country. I wish the proposed committee well. I hope that it will examine the Family Law Act with the sincerity of purpose which I believe has activated most honourable members who have taken part in this debate. I believe that there is a genuine desire to try to improve the Family Law Act. Many people to whom I have spoken feel that the Act has many defects; that in many respects it does not provide the help and assistance needed to create a better society, as might have been expected of it. So I think that the legislation should be carefully examined. 
As I said, I hope that the committee that is to be appointed for this purpose- to examine a very real and important aspect of community lifewill have the success that it deserves. I believe very strongly that unless we preserve the security of family life we will be stepping down from the standards which the pioneers of this country and other people have provided in the past. They adopted a better approach to the necessity to accept some of the problems with which marriage and family life are confronted. We cannot solve all the problems. There will be problems and there will be breakdowns. But the essence of my remarks tonight is that we should examine this matter carefully and determine whether there is anything that this Parliament can do by way of amending the legislation to enable people to preserve marriages, both in their own interests and in the interests of any family which might have resulted from those marriages. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the recent decision of the High Court on the constitutional role and powers of the Australian Wheat Board, can the Minister say when the Government is likely to consider the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on wheat stabilisation? Has the High Court's decision in any way affected the value of the IAC's findings and recommendations? 
I listened with interest to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and I must say that his crocodile tears for the farmers sound very hollow to me because he speaks for a government which when last in office did away with fuel price equalisation which was of very great benefit to the people who live in the electorate of Riverina and indeed in all electorates, particularly those in outlying areas. I would like also to mention that he referred to health. Let me say that despite the stringent expenditure restraints that this Government has had to take as a result of the destruction of our economy by the previous Labor Government, we have introduced a scheme whereby people requiring specialist attention will be able now for the first time to get compensation for travel and accommodation expenses incurred in seeking such attention. This is something which is long overdue, which the Australian Labor Party never even thought of doing but which this Government has done as a result of its consideration for the welfare and health of people who live in areas such as that which the honourable member for Riverina represents. 
He talked too about pension increases being made not as often as they have been made in the past. Let me say that under the Labor Government the rate of inflation was so high that pensions were as far behind every quarter as they will be behind every year under this Government. Therefore, pensioners will be a lot better off under this Government. The labour-saving devices which he mentioned were largely brought about and certainly the speed with which they were brought about was accentuated by the rapid increase in the rate of inflation which was characteristic of the Labor Government. I could go on and on. 
When we talk about the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and what he has done we must consider what  Mr Wran  thinks about him. He will not have the Leader of the Opposition near him during the State election. If ever there was an indictment of a federal Labor government, and particularly the Leader of the Opposition about whom the honourable member spoke so freely, surely that must be it. I have not enough time to answer all the statements made by the honourable member because I want to speak to the Budget also. 
The Government is certainly to be commended on its determination to continue its successful attack on inflation. To do this it has had to introduce some measures which are distasteful to it and indeed to the public at large, but an indication of the courage of the Government is that it is pursuing those measures which ultimately will be of real benefit to the whole of the community although they are unpopular at present and although the Opposition in this Parliament tries to take advantage of the situation. The temporary increase in income tax which was very reluctantly introduced by the Government for this year only is an example of this. It was introduced only to ensure that the attack on inflation will continue along the successful road that it has already taken. It is generally accepted that a reduction of the deficit is an effective factor in the reduction of the rate of inflation. Indeed, it is regarded by many as an essential factor. 
It has been claimed by a Labor spokesman, with characteristically illogical reasoning, that the Government is concerned with reducing the deficit but is not concerned with unemployment. The cold hard facts are that by reducing the inflation rate, with the contribution that that will make to a stable economy, unemployment can be reduced on a sound and continuing basis, and it is the only way that we can effectively do that. I accept the soundness of the Government's major economic objectives; they are to be commended and they must be proceeded with. 
At the same time I recognise that a responsibility is resting on the shoulders of the Government to ensure that the burden of restoring the Australian economy is spread as equitably as possible. The Government feels that it has endeavoured to do that. However, one factor on the Budget which concerns me and which falls very heavily on the primary producers is the increase in the excise on fuel and distillate in particular to bring the price to world parity. Because this action requires primary producers to carry an undue share of the burden of reducing the inflation rate through decreasing the Budget deficit as a result, I urge the Government to have fuel, especially distillate fuel, used by primary producers, exempted from the increase. 
The  president  of the Queensland Graingrowers Association,  Mr Don  Eather, and its administrator,  Mr George  Houen, have recently pointed out that the increased fuel price has placed graingrowers at a serious disadvantage in relation to their major competitors for overseas markets. They have pointed out quite rightly that the price of bulk diesel fuel to the commercial user in the United States of America is 40. 1 lc Australian per imperial gallon and if he uses petrol on the farm that excise charge is refunded. The Canadian prices are comparable. Canada and the USA are retaining these concessions although their inflation rates for the 6 months to July 1978 were 12.1 per cent in Canada and 10.5 per cent in the USA. The fact that they are still retaining those concessions shows the value that those governments place on maintaining profitability and world competitiveness in primary industry, and this is something which I believe we should look at very seriously. By comparison at Dalby on the Darling Downs in my electorate of Maranoa the farm delivered price for distillate is expected to be about 72.64c Australian per imperial gallon. 
Honourable members can see the disadvantage that we suffer in relation to our competitors overseas in our fight for those markets which we must have to maintain the amount of export income and gross domestic product which these primary and graingrowing industries provide for this country. 
Viable productive industries are vitally important to a sound economy and it is against this background that I have urged the Government to examine the value that relief to these industries would be as well as the justice of equitably sharing the burden of re-establishing the Australian economy to the advantage of all Australians. The importance of relieving primary industry of the costs imposed is an attitude held by primary producer organisations across the nation. I find that this attitude is held by responsible representatives of the community not only in my State of Queensland but also in other States. For example, the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture, the  Hon.  R. Old, in an interview I had with him recently impressed upon me the need for the alleviation of the cost of fuel in production industries; and he also stated that transport industries should be given that consideration too. Of course, he represents a big State which is often compared with Queensland and some of the problems experienced there are certainly experienced in Queensland and in my electorate of Maranoa.  Mr Old  also stressed to me the need to review taxation zones with the object of introducing another zone and lifting the taxation benefits presently provided in the existing zones.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I need hardly assure you that I am pleased to raise the need for updating the taxation zone benefits as it is something for which the National Country Party in Canberra has pressed quite often down the years. I am very sympathetic to  Mr Old's  views because, as I have said, my electorate contains areas which are comparable with many of the areas in Western Australia and indeed in other States. This situation applies in areas of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, although possibly not so much in Tasmania. 
To demonstrate the extra burden carried by primary producers as a result of increased fuel prices it has been reliably estimated that many farmers in larger farming areas will face an increase of many thousands of dollars and that many other smaller farmers will have to meet extra costs of $1,000 or more. So it is a heavy charge and it has to be remembered, particularly as farming is spread out into more marginal areas, that farmers face very great difficulties of unfavourable seasonal conditions, dependence on the world prices and the need to try to maintain viability. Indeed, there is almost a necessity for a reserve to meet those unpredictable unfavourable conditions that can apply. I wish to quote a statement made by the Queensland Graingrowers Association: 
In Queensland fuel is probably the most important cash item in a grain grower's cost of production. Obviously, the grower has no alternative source of energy for farming, and no way of passing on the extra cost except on the 20 per cent of the nation 's wheat crop sold on the domestic market. 
I mentioned earlier the vagaries of seasonal conditions. I wish to stress that this fuel has to be used every year even when unfavourable seasonal conditions and low world prices reduce the profitability of the operation of the property to marginal levels on some occasions or even to a loss position. The metropolitan traveller has options available to him to avoid increased fuel costs. No doubt, he can either use public transport or share car travel with other commuters. The fuel wasted by people travelling to work in Brisbane, for example, has been highlighted in census figures published recently. The figures show that 63 per cent of people in the work force travel to work by car and that 50 per cent travel in cars by themselves. Therefore higher petrol prices can be useful in conserving fuel, saving wear and tear on cars and car tyres and making a contribution to reducing traffic density in peak hours. It can be seen that some benefits can be obtained as a result of people having to pay more for fuel in those areas where alternatives are available and savings can be made. I acknowledge that fact but in my appeal I am talking about those areas where fuel simply has to be used and where no alternatives are available. 
I have mentioned the problems with which farmers must contend and the conditions under which they work. I wish to stress what is obvious to many farmers and people in country areas: Many people hold the erroneous view that once rain falls after a drought the primary producers' problems are over. They overlook the fact that in many cases heavy debts have been incurred and have to be liquidated. Similarly, after years of low prices, too many people think that as soon as market prices have improved the primary producers' troubles are over, again forgetting the need to recover the losses incurred in previous years. I have stressed that point, although I have not had much time to do so. I believe that the Government should look at this matter and with great sincerity, I ask it to do so. 
The Government is to be warmly congratulated for providing the amount of finance that it has been able to provide in many areas of Government expenditure, including Medibank, and still keep the deficit at a reasonable level. That is a splendid effort and I commend the Government for it. The determined effort of the Federal Government to control inflation means that if the objective of a 5 per cent inflation rate is achieved this financial year- this seems very likely- the contributions made by the Government to States and to local government will have the added value of being used at a time when inflation is kept down to a lower level. For instance, payments made to the States and to local authorities under the tax sharing arrangements are estimated to increase by 10.7 per cent and 8.5 per cent respectively. These funds can be used for whatever purposes the States and local authorities choose. Australia is bearing down on the inflation rate. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said the other night, Australia's actions in this area provide an example to the rest of the world. The reduction of inflation will benefit those areas of expenditure because the money to be spent will have a greater value as the inflation rate falls. The inflation rate will not be at anything like the level it was during the period of the Labor Government. 
Finally, let me say that the ultimate test of a Budget is whether it is in the long term best interests of the people that the Government represents. I am firmly convinced that, subject to the changes that I have suggested- I hope the Government will give serious consideration to them- there is no doubt that this Budget is in the best interests of the Australian people and the Australian nation. The Government has been denigrated for not being able to provide the funds that were provided previously in all areas of expenditure. Possibly, although the Government is providing funds at the same rate as the Labor Government, sometimes the provision of those funds has not kept pace with the full rate of inflation. I hope that people who listen to such denigration of the Government will realise the tremendous benefits that will be obtained in the future through the control of inflation. In that way also we will be able to provide for those deserving young people, in fact all people in the nation, a better prospect of continuing employment, more employment opportunities and a greater possibility of retaining those employment avenues that will be available to them. Employment opportunities have been denied to them because our economy has been broken down as a result of illogical and irresponsible attitudes by the Labor Government. 
-I have listened with interest to the debate on wheat research. I believe that it has singled out the very important aspects. I have noted with interest many of the items that were raised by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  and there was merit in what he said. He concluded in talking about the need for people to be able to retire from their farms as other people retire from other avenues of industry. Here again I think it would be very good if this could be done. Some matters that would affect that proposition include such things as the industrial dispute which is presently holding up the loading of wheat in Sydney. Such disputes take away a good deal from the profitability of people who are engaged in that industry. It is a crying shame that in many cases there is no real justification for these strikes. I do not think there is real justification for the black ban that has been placed on the  Bellness  in Sydney at present. While that vessel is waiting to load wheat another vessel is waiting to load. All of this cost falls heavily on the wheat producer. This is important. I do not know whether under the Wheat Research Act we can do any research on the need for strikes but it would be pretty good if we could do so. 
The wheat research scheme has operated since 1957. Of course, as is generally known in the industry, it is based on a tax on wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board and a financial contribution by the Commonwealth Government to match expenditures of moneys so collected from the industry. The present maximum rate of tax was established by an amendment to the Wheat Tax Act in 1972. So it is reasonable, bearing in mind the rate of inflation which some years ago was very high, that we should be looking at an increase. The Austraiian Wheatgrowers Federation which represents growers in the wheat industry has requested that under this amendment the maximum rate of tax be raised to 30c per tonne and  that the  appropriation of the Commonwealth matching contribution be included in the Wheat Research Act. It should be noted that at the present time the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation is looking at 20c. However, it has asked for a margin of 10c which if required can be made available under the Act if the Government so desires. 
The wheat research scheme which has operated since 1957 is one of a number of such national rural industry research schemes supported by the Commonwealth. I commend the Government for the position it has taken. I also commend all people who are engaged in this research work and who do a very dedicated job. These people have been very successful in many of their endeavours to the benefit of the wheat industry and through that to the benefit of the nation. On the basis of a report carried out by the Industries Assistance Commission on the financing of rural research in Australia, the Government last year reviewed and reaffirmed its policy of continuing to provide grants to national rural industry research schemes on the basis of matching dollar for dollar expenditure from funds contributed by producers and raised by a levy on a national basis. As the Minister pointed out, under the wheat research arrangements established by the Wheat Reseach Act 1957 the proceeds of wheat are collected on delivery to the Australian Wheat Board, and they are appropriated for expenditure on wheat research to the State wheat research committees in each mainland State in the proportion in which those proceeds are collected. That is a reasonable and efficient way of collecting these funds. I will make a comment about this procedure a little later. 
The Commonwealth contribution, as the Minister has stated, has been appropriated annually to finance research programs that are recommended by the Wheat Industry Research Council and approved by the Minister for Primary Industry. The Wheat Industry Research Council is constituted under the Wheat Research Act 1957. The continuance of wheat research remains a very important factor in wheat production and on the basis of the success that has been achieved in the past it can be expected to increase the per hectare productivity as time goes by. Wheat research is also important because it can make even further contributions to the quality of wheat production generally. As has been pointed out, this is important to a nation such as Australia which is competing on world markets. I mentioned in a previous speech the extent to which rural industries are valued in other countries. I pointed out that rural industries in some other countries are given concessions in respect of fuel usage. 
The money collected for wheat research is collected on deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board. Consequently- and this is a point that I want to make quite strongly- wheat sold outside the Board makes no contribution to the very important facet of improved production of wheat both in quantity and quality. Therefore the recent decision of the High Court means that, if there is to be across-border trading, it can only be carried out either through a change in the present arrangements or with the sanction of the Austraiian Wheat Board. I hope under these circumstances that the levying of assessments for wheat research might be able to be applied to most, if not all, of our domestic wheat market. It would only be fair that such contributions should be made as all wheat growers benefit from the work done by the research applied to the wheat industry as a whole. 
The wheat industry participates in the allocation of funds through the representation on the State committee structure and on the Wheat Industry Research Council. Maintaining and improving the quality of our wheat as measured by protein content and milling characteristics is important if Australia is to hold its place in the international market- and I have mentioned that before- and compete effectively with other countries in meeting the very discriminating demands on purchasers of wheat from overseas. As has been said previously in the debate, improvement of yields absorbs the greatest amount of research funds under the scheme. That is a very important factor. As the honourable member for Riverina pointed out in his speech, this is one of the very important successes achieved by wheat research. The honourable member and other speakers in the debate listed a fairly wide range of projects funded under the scheme. These projects include disease control, breeding for special characteristics such as climatic and disease tolerance, nutritional requirements in various wheat growing soils, weed control and assessment of yield losses arising from weeds. I want to emphasise an important factor that has already been mentioned. I refer to research into the type of machinery used for the tillage of soil. Not only does this type of research apply to the more effective preparation of the soils but it also has a bearing on soil conservation which is a very important factor in the wheat growing industry on two counts. Firstly, it is important in respect of production itself and secondly it is important in respect of maintaining the productive capacity of agricultural areas. Therefore this area of investigation and research is now a very worthwhile one. 
I have mentioned before that the maximum rate of tax is to be increased to 20c. I sometimes wonder whether or not we have gone far enough in respect of the size of the tax when we consider the value of wheat research to the industry. I know that people are receiving a net return from markets that might be better than the return they would receive from wheat sold through the organised marketing channels of the Australian Wheat Board. I am annoyed that these people who do not have to pay anything share in the benefits and results of wheat research. The purpose of the two conjoint Bills, therefore, is to increase the maximum rate of the wheat tax. In the debate we have ranged over the benefits that will accrue from the increase of funds for wheat research. I would like to mention another angle in respect of the value of wheat research that possibly has been emphasised as much as it might have been- that is, research which allows the industry to cope with climatic conditions. As a result of research marginal areas have been made more reliable wheat producing areas. The value of this research to rural industry generally and to the wheat industry in particular and its national benefit has perhaps not been assessed fully as yet. 
A very high protein quality of wheat is produced in my electorate of Maranoa. This wheat is in very high demand. We feel that an expansion of the wheat growing industry in this area would be even more beneficial than might be a general expansion. 
-My good friend the honourable member for Paterson said that we get a premium on our wheat. I might say that this is a premium that is very well earned and justly deserved. People acquire our wheat because its lower protein content allows it to be used more readily and easily than would otherwise be the case. 
I heard an interjection that it was not any good for biscuits. All I want to say is that I believe that there is plenty of wheat which is good for biscuits but not so good for other things. I have mentioned the value of organised marketing. I support very strongly the organised marketing of wheat for a number of reasons. One of those reasons is that where funds are to be collected for wheat research, for example, from the growers it can be done effectively through this source. I think it would probably be very expensive and not so effective if it were done in any other way. 
I would like to draw attention to the comments made in the High Court decision in favour of the Australian Wheat Board. Their Honours Justices Mason and Jacobs held that the efficacy of the whole scheme depends, inter alia, upon the delivery being made at the facilities in or near where the wheat has been grown. They were satisfied that the wheat pool scheme was the only practical and reasonable manner of regulation of the trade and that, therefore, it was constitutionally valid that all trading in wheat should be able to be brought within the scheme. Thus, it was considered that a stabilisation scheme was needed and that 'the tests of practicality and reasonableness (which includes fairness to all without discrimination throughout Australia) are satisfied by the comprehensive compulsory scheme which has been adopted'. I agree with those judges of the High Court. I support the Bill. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs I would like, first of all, to refer to the Association of South East Asian Nations and Australia. The development of friendly and substantive relations with the countries of ASEAN both individually and collectively, has been a principal foreign policy aim of successive Australian governments which have endorsed ASEAN 's principal objectives of economic development, political stability and a region free of great power rivalry and domination. Formal links between ASEAN and Australia were established in 1974 when the ASEAN-Australia economic co-operation program was adopted. Several regional projects have been developed through this program. Since 1974, $A15 million has been committed to the program. The development of trade between Australia and the ASEAN countries has become an important issue in relations. This reflects the high priority ASEAN leaders have placed on economic development. 
In their post-summit talks with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in August 1977 in Kuala Lumpur, the ASEAN heads of government expressed their strong wish to increase their share of trade with Australia. During 1977, a number of important initiatives were announced to help develop further economic links with the ASEAN countries. At the post-summit talks the Prime Minister, to encourage Australian business involvement in the region, announced that Australia would host an industrial co-operation conference. This conference took place in Melbourne from 19 to 21 June and brought together ASEAN and Australian Ministers, businessmen and senior officials. They discussed investment and the transfer of technology to the ASEAN region. At Kuala Lumpur, the Prime Minister also indicated that Australia would sponsor, on a regular basis, an ASEAN trade fair in Australia. The purpose of the ASEAN trade fair would be to promote a greater ASEAN share of the imports that come into Australia. The first ASEAN trade fair will take place in Sydney from 23 to 28 October. 
Further to and in part flowing out of the discussions in Kuala Lumpur on trade matters, the Australian Government decided to take steps to alleviate rigidities associated with the existing method of allocating quotas. Accordingly it reserved 15 per cent of the supplementary textile, clothing and footwear quotas for cases involving anomalies. ASEAN countries have benefited from this. The ASEAN heads of Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  also agreed that there should be an improvement in consultative mechanism, 'to promote a cooperative and constructive approach to the development of mutual trade relations'. Australia has proposed that regular meetings between the ASEAN heads of mission in Canberra and the interdepartmental committee on relations with ASEAN take place to discuss trade and other problems before they become difficult or acute. These proposals have been accepted by ASEAN and the terms of reference - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! There is too much audible conversation in the chamber. I call the honourable member for Maranoa. 
-That is the standard of intelligence of honourable members opposite. That is the trouble. These proposals have been accepted by ASEAN and the terms of reference agreed to by ASEAN for the Australia /ASEAN consultative meetings are currently with Australian Ministers for formal acceptance. Mind you,  Mr 
Deputy Chairman, the last speaker was heard in silence. At Kuala Lumpur it was also announced that Australia would meet the cost of an ASEAN- Australia joint research project. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -The honourable member for Burke can draw attention to the state of the chamber, but there is no need for him to make a speech about it. The honourable member knows that very well.  (Quorum formed). 
-Before attention was drawn to the state of the chamber I was speaking about the terms of reference agreed to by ASEAN for these Australian-ASEAN consultative meetings. They are currently with Australian Ministers for formal acceptance. At Kuala Lumpur it was also announced that Australia would meet the cost of an ASEAN-Australia joint research project, the aim of which would be to establish a sound basis of knowledge from which a long-term economic relationship between ASEAN and Australia could be developed. A working group from Australia visited the ASEAN countries to discuss ways in which to implement and organise the research project. Currently, priority is being given to implementation of the arrangements announced during 1977. Progress is carefully monitored by the interdepartmental committee on ASEAN and the major issues in the relationship are reviewed by the ASEAN-Australia Forum. The Forum which comprises senior ASEAN and Australian officials will next meet later this year. 
I now turn to multi-lateral diplomacy. I would like to talk about the growing importance to us of multi-lateral diplomacy. These days the international conference calendar is lengthy. The need for so many conferences may be questioned. The reality is that decisions important to Australia's future well-being are being made in a wide range of on-going multi-lateral negotiations. There are crucial issues such as nuclear safeguards, the law of the sea and Antarctica to be dealt with. 
I believe it is important that we should not lose sight of the less dramatic work carried out daily by our posts overseas. Relations between governments remain the basis of the diplomatic system. Foreign policy decisions, while they reflect our domestic priorities, must also take account of overseas trends and developments. Our assessment of these trends depends upon the patient and painstaking gathering and analysis of information carried out by posts and the establishment of contacts with foreign leaders and officials. This is not something we can neglect or expect others to do for us. I am confident that none of us in this House would doubt the need to maintain an effective and competent foreign service. 
The inescapable fact of international life today is that, in making decisions about our foreign relations, we must look more and more to a much wider range of factors. Only through active and energetic involvement in many aspects of the diplomatic scene can we hope to protect and advance our interests. I emphasise the breadth of the Government's involvement because it has a substantial impact on the Department's overseas service. We provide representation to international organisations and members of delegations for meetings and negotiating conferences. As travel funds are not limitless this representation is being drawn increasingly from staff at posts, which also provide administrative support for delegations. Under the Prime Minister's directive on the co-ordination of Australian diplomatic and consular arrangements the Department of Foreign Affairs provides common services at posts for attached officers from government departments. Despite restricted resources endeavours are made to ensure that these common services arrangements have not suffered. More generally, in fact, common services have proved to be more efficient and less costly to the Government. I should now like to refer to the world food program and the bilateral - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. I ask: Is it a fact that nuclear energy is amongst the cheapest of all forms of electricity generation? In view of that, what is the present position in respect of nuclear energy development in other countries? 
-The appropriation for the Department of Science amounts to $204,267,000, of which the major item of expenditure is to finance the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for expenditure under the Science Industry and Research Act. In that area alone the Department of Science has certainly proved its worth in very many ways. If there are some weaknesses, as has been pointed out by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  then there are certainly many great successes. So let us not dwell on the things that have not been done: Let us remember with some degree of gratitude the great achievements that have already been recorded. 
The outstanding success of CSIRO in recent times has been the InterScan aircraft landing system. The InterScan system began as a suggestion by the Division of Radiophysics in CSIRO to the Australian Department of Transport that an appropriate system would feature planar fan-like radio beams which are scanned to and fro using an electronic switching technique. When an aircraft intercepts the scanning beam, the system can determine the aircraft's angular position relative to the airport runway by measuring the time interval between the signals received from successive scans. Combining this information with the distance from the airport will enable the aircraft's position to be determined accurately. That is one of CSIRO 's very great achievements. It has contributed to the safety of aircraft travel in this country- a very important aspect of national life. 
When the InterScan system was first proposed, in 1972, the United States Federal Aviation Administration was developing four different types of landing systems, one of which would eventually be chosen as the United States proposal to the International Civil Aviation Organisation. However, the United States Federal Aviation Administration, after sending a team of experts to Australia to review the InterScan work, arranged for one of the four United States developments to be modified to include the InterScan time reference scanning beam signal format. That modified system was subsequently adopted by the United States of America as its proposal to the ICAO and the Australian and United States submissions became complementary- a great tribute indeed to Australian scientists. The acceptance of this system by ICAO was of course again a great tribute to the quality of work that was done by scientists in our own CSIRO and which had previously been recognised by the American team which had been sent out to Australia to examine the situation. That is just one point, but it is one that I want to emphasise because it is something that indicates the value of this Department. I repeat: Despite some criticism that might be made of the Department, let us remember with some degree of pride the achievements that have been recorded by the CSIRO and by the Department of Science. 
Time is very limited and I must touch on only a few aspects of the Department of Science. But there is another aspect which is of great interest and value to the community generally, and that is the Bureau of Meteorology. The most recognised aspect of the work of the Bureau is its weather forecasting service. It is of very great value in a number of areas including aviation, primary industry and flood warnings. In those areas, the Bureau has carried out some splendid work. Forecasting is one of those difficult jobs that people have to do and which is important, but which becomes confused by unpredictable changes. Nevertheless, its importance cannot be underestimated. It is quite obvious that accurate longer range forecasting would also be of great advantage in all the other areas that I have mentioned. Research is going on into that aspect of the Bureau's activities. However, the process is a slow one because of the changing conditions that are so often met within those areas. Very often those changes are unpredictable and the information received has first to be checked. I repeat: This is a problem that remains to be solved to the degree of accuracy that we would like to see. The work is going on and I commend the Bureau of Meteorology for the work it is doing in that area. 
Satellite information will become available and will be of very real assistance as regards the information it will provide to enable more accurate and longer range forecasts to be given. I understand that the satellite likely to be used for this purpose is Japanese-owned and that information will be processed in Japan and forwarded to this Australian Bureau of Meteorology under an agreement. Of course we look forward to having our own satellite or a share in a satellite to provide us with that information. In the meantime however, it means that in the field of science, at any rate, we can get the degree of co-operation between nations which is so desirable and for the welfare of all. 
The development of satellite communication is one of the most interesting developments of recent times. Great progress is being made in this area. There is no doubt that satellite communication will be one of the important aspects in conquering distances in those sparsely settled parts of Australia. We are looking forward to the time when telecommunications and television services are provided via satellite or perhaps through the leasing of satellites. This would enable very deserving people in outback areas to receive those benefits which are common place elsewhere and which are regarded as something that everyone should have and which everyone, particularly those in the more closely settled areas, the larger towns and even the smaller towns within range of the present broadcasting services, already have. The very high cost of providing fully effective services, together with the limitations on resources, has meant that some demands for new or expanded services of the Department of Science have not always been able to be met. As the demands can only increase, we are going to find that there will be even greater demand from time to time. Questions which arise in this area include: Are all the present services required, and if not, can any of them be discontinued in the interests of economy? On the other hand, is the present range of services sufficient and if not, what should be added to that range? 
The meteorologist is constantly motivated to improve the quality of his output and in particular, the accuracy and timeliness of his forecasts. I mentioned previously the cyclone warning service which has proved of great value. Indeed, it is responsible for the saving of many lives. Turning to a different area, we find that these storm warnings and these flood warnings have enabled people to move stocks from areas that were likely to be flooded. They therefore saved a good deal in that direction and made the possibility of people living in those areas and looking after their herds and flocks more tenable than would otherwise be the case. The likelihood of such flooding would simply be guesswork otherwise. 
I also mention that many requests are made. It is pleasing for me to note the consideration extended by the Department of Science to commercial television stations. As an example the manager of DDQ Channel 10 Toowoomba wrote to his local member, the ever active and alert honourable member of Darling Downs Tom McVeigh, expressing concern that the weather information available to Channel 10 was not as extensive as that shown on the local Australian Broadcasting Commission station. 
I would not have referred to that but for the honourable member mentioning it. As a result of his representations, supported by representations made by me, the Minister advised us that arrangements would be made to enable Channel 10 to produce a weather map with information provided by the Bureau of Meteorology. Arrangements within the Bureau for the provision of this service are almost complete and the Bureau will be in touch with the station in the next few days regarding practical details for the implementation of this service which will enable Channel 10, the Toowoomba commercial station, to provide improved weather report presentation. Although it is of local interest in my area and the area of the electorate of Darling Downs, it is an example of the co-operation and the willingness of the Department of Science to meet the requests that are made to it. It is one example of many. It is a very good example and I am very pleased to mention it tonight. In conclusion, let me say that my admiration for the Department is very high. I pay a tribute to the Minister for Science  Senator Webster  for the great interest he has shown in all aspects of his Department. I compliment him and the Department of Science for the progress that has been made under his administration. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that only nine cattle are exported alive for every 1,000 cattle killed? If this is so, how can it be claimed that meat workers' employment is in any danger from live cattle exports? Will the Federal Government, if requested, combine with the State governments to introduce complementary legislation to ensure that legitimate livestock export trade be allowed to proceed? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Following the Minister's advice to the House yesterday that he discussed with the Chinese authorities last week ways of co-operation between Australia and Chinese authorities to assist China 's agricultural development, can the Minister now provide any more specific information as to how this cooperation might be achieved? 
-Tonight I too want to refer to health insurance. I believe that in the main health insurance will be successful and that costs in relation to the percentage of population participating in the insurance scheme will be lowered. Whilst there is no compulsion to insure, if people desire to have the doctor of thenchoice and to go to a private hospital for treatment it is necessary for them to take out hospital insurance to cover the extra cost that will be incurred. Many people would desire to do this. But if they do not insure there is no way in which they could afford to pay the very heavy medical and hospital costs which they could incur. Therefore if they are to avail themselves of those privileges they will have to take out hospital insurance. 
If people are encouraged not to insure and if such encouragement were successful it would be reasonable to assume that because of the lower numbers insuring the cost of insuring would become greater. The cost to those people who feel the need for the protection that insurance would give them would find the cost very heavy indeed. Another factor to be considered is the very high cost of conducting private hospitals. These costs are greatly influenced by the percentage of bed occupancy in these hospitals. It would almost certainly follow that if the number of people taking hospital insurance were reduced the number of people able to afford private hospital fees with the doctor of their choice would also be reduced, perhaps to the extent that hospitals would have difficulty in surviving. This prospect must be of very real concern to thinking people in the community. It is against this background that I deprecate the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  as stated in the  Courier-Mail,  that he will not take out private health insurance for himself and his family. Of course, if the Leader of the Opposition or any member of his family required hospitalisation, he would, no doubt, be able to afford a doctor in a hospital of his choice if this is what he chose to do. This opportunity would not be available to many people on a lower income. The Leader of the Opposition is quoted as having said: 
I realise, of course, there are people with chronic poor health, or families with a number of small children requiring constant medical attention, where some insurance is needed. 
The Labor Party's health spokesman,  Dr Klugman,  has also been reported to have decided against private health insurance. I believe that he will not deny that he is in accord with what his leader said in that regard. He too, probably even more so, would be able to afford any medical or hospital costs he might be confronted with if he wished to have the doctor of his choice in the hospital of his choice. On the other hand, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  have said that they are insuring to maintain the higher medical and hospital benefits. Some concern has been expressed to him about the attitude people might take following what the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party's health spokesman have said with regard to their attitude towards hospital insurance. That concern was felt by a number of people, particularly those associated with private hospitals which have served the community for a long time and which are of high repute. They may not be able to continue operating. This would deprive people, who really believe that their money would be best spent in providing for a doctor of their choice in a private hospital, of a choice. I hope that the shadow Minister will agree that sometimes this is of value in medical treatment. 
However, I have been assured by the Minister for Health that the numbers of people insuring are satisfactory to him. It is fairly obvious that the community at large has not taken any notice of the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition or the shadow Minister for Health in relation to hospital insurance. I am pleased that the community at large is looking at the matter in this way so enabling those people to whom the Leader of the Opposition referred and many other people who require hospital insurance to obtain that cover. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Quarantine Amendment Bill 1978 highlights the great importance of ensuring that quarantine laws in Australia are strictly observed. The main purpose of the Bill is to increase the penalties that can be imposed upon persons convicted of offences against the quarantine laws of this country. It is high time that these penalties were increased as they have not been changed for many years. Current penalties certainly are not in keeping with the seriousness of the effects that could come about from the breaching of quarantine laws. Because the penalties are not in accord with the gravity of such breaches they do not provide the necessary degree of deterrent to people who may be tempted to breach deliberately our quarantine regulations. Breaches of quarantine laws could be disastrous for some industries in this country. The enormous cost that could be incurred as a result of the introduction of diseases into Australia cannot be overemphasised. 
Australia has achieved great success in keeping animal diseases out of this country for over a century, but if Australia is to remain free from diseases that exist in other countries it is essential that we update to the maximum degree the most effective controls on the importation of animalsperhaps this should apply to other areas also but I emphasise 'animals'- which could introduce diseases into Australia. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  talked in his second reading speech about the possible introduction of rabies through the illegal importation of a cat or dog. This would have very serious effects on the keeping of domestic pets in this country. While that is a serious matter I am more concerned with the effects on the livestock industry. At present Australia has an advantage in overseas markets for its livestock and agricultural products because of our freedom from serious pests and diseases. One of the most frightening things envisaged is an outbreak of foot and mouth disease. This disease can be imported into this country through a breach of quarantine regulations or in some other way. However, it is most likely to be imported through a breach of quarantine regulations. It has been estimated that if such an outbreak occurred it could cost Australia up to $600m per annum. The disaster that would occur and the serious economic effect this would have on our livestock industry needs no emphasis from me. That alone stresses the need for this legislation. I am certainly very pleased to see it introduced. 
In recent times there have been increasing attempts to import birds illegally into this country. Such illegal imports are extremely dangerous. For example, Newcastle disease was brought into Australia through a consignment of illegally imported birds from Indonesia. Fortunately the quarantine authorities were able to locate the birds and prevent the disease spreading. This demonstrates that diseases can be imported. An outbreak of Newcastle disease in America resulted in the necessity to destroy 12 million birds. This cost the American people dearly. Australia does not want any repetition of that incident. The changes in penalties could play a valuable part in deterring attempts such as those made in recent times. The need for changes is emphasised by the speed of transport today. Slow means of transport are disappearing. Areas are not so isolated as they were previously which is one benefit. It is imperative therefore that we constantly be on the alert to prevent the entry into Australia of diseases by any method, particularly by breaches of the quarantine regulations. 
No country can guarantee exotic diseases will not be introduced but we can take every possible step to reduce the chances. That, in effect, is what this Bill is aiming to do. Another problem which constitutes a growing risk of disease introduction is the difficulty of effectively patrolling all of our northern shores. Although this aspect has been mentioned before it is worth emphasising. We should be looking at the most effective means of continuing surveillance against the possibility of illegal landings and, consequently, the risk of disease introduction. We must face the fact that effective patrols will be more extensive and consequently more costly than in the past. 
I do not want to detract from the importance that has been given to this matter by the Australian Government. As a member of the Joint Comittee on Public Works at the time, I looked at possible sites for an off-shore quarantine station. A thorough investigation was made of possible sites at Norfolk Island, Christmas Island and Cocos (Keeling) Islands. We recommended the Cocos Island site. It is a long way away but nevertheless it will be effective. The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  has mentioned the details. A station there can be used in conjunction with quarantine stations on the mainland. A great deal can be said about this matter. I have tried to emphasise, in the short time I have been speaking, the great seriousness of it. The lack of awareness in the general community about the dangers and the economic effects of the introduction into Australia of exotic diseases concerns me. I would like to see some publicity given to the subject. I am sorry to see that the Press Gallery is understaffed at present. I hope that the media in general will take this matter up for the benefit of Australia. Often we find that an attack on an individual or something of minor importance which should not concern the National Parliament to the extent that it does is given headlines of great magnitude, while something of this nature, which is not sensational but is of tremendous importance, gets no mention in the majority of the media. 
As evidence of the Government's firm determination to do everything possible to prevent the introduction of exotic diseases, this Bill provides a change in the maximum penalty for a breach of the quarantine laws from $500 or six months imprisonment to $5,000 or two years imprisonment. That indicates the seriousness view of this matter taken by the Government. A person knowingly bringing into Australia any goods, animals, plants or other disease agents in contravention of the Act will be subject to a maximum monetary penalty of $10,000. The previous penalty was $2,000. 1 commend the Government on raising the penalties. The penalties are not too great for people who jeopardise the welfare of the Australian nation by this sort of action. I commend the Government on this legislation. I repeat that I trust that the community at large will be fully co-operative and take a keener interest in assisting in the prevention of exotic diseases not only by strictly observing the Act but also by reporting any breach of the quarantine regulations which might come to notice. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of a reported publicity campaign by Japanese beef producers arguing against imports into Japan of beef from Australia, the United States of America and New Zealand. Can the Minister say what steps are being taken either by the Government or the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation to counter this publicity campaign, which, if successful, would act to the detriment of the Australian beef industry? 
I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources whether yesterday, in addressing the National Export Conference, he said that the Middle East was a better short-term market than China. If so, was this statement, as has been suggested in Press reports today, a contradiction of recent Government and industry statements indicating that China is the most exciting export market for Australia? 
-Does the Minister for Post and Telecommunications recall that during his visit to western Queensland residents in these areas brought home to him very forcibly the importance of mail services? Did the Australian Postal Commission agree to consider carefully the provision of a minimum of two mail services a week wherever practicable? Can the Minister advise whether there have been any further developments towards achieving this very desirable and well justified objective? 
-I start my remarks by accepting some of the comments made by my colleague the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  I support his statement that insufficient attention has been directed during the course of this debate towards positive and special efforts to try to counsel and educate people- as far as it is possible to teach them- so that they will know all the problems that they face, all the difficulties that may lie ahead and all the benefits that are available to them through various church and government organisations. That is a point with which I agree. Indeed, that was a point I made in a speech on a similar subject some years ago. 
The motion before the House is one whereby medical benefits for abortion are restricted to those abortions required to protect the life of the mother. A factor which concerns me in relation to this matter is that I am strongly opposed for a number of reasons to what is described as abortion on demand. Firstly, I believe that an unborn child has a right to hie, recognising that under the law as it stands, the life of a mother is given preference over the life of an unborn child. That an unborn child has a right to life is widely recognised. Even in the Medical Practice 
Clarification Bill debated here on 10 May 1973, the rights were preserved when pregnancy had reached a period of 23 weeks. As one honourable member asked earlier, where is the start of life? I made the point on that occasion that the fundamental question was whether the rights of an unborn child should be recognised during the whole or only part of a pregnancy. Surely there is logic in recognising that right during the whole of pregnancy. I make that point again tonight. However, the problem of unwanted pregnancies must be faced, and more action must be taken in connection with that matter. Before moving onto that matter, I refer to a statement contained in today's  Age,  signed by some 90-odd doctors. I shall not read the full article, but in part it states: 
We, the undersigned medical practitioners, wish to express our grave concern that the traditional commitment of our profession to maintaining respect for the sanctity of human life may be obscured in the present public debate on abortion funding. 
The provision of medical benefits for abortion is only serving to endorse and encourage the practice of abortion. We believe that abortion has no place in good medical practice and consequently that medical benefits should not be available for abortions. 
The law does allow abortion in particular instances. I shall also read from a paper which I have here. The heading states: 
The AMA's position on  Mr Lusher  's motion regarding termination of pregnancy. 
I do not intend to take up more time than is necessary, so I shall again read only in part. I know that there may be some criticism of the part that I am quoting. I shall make my point in connection with the quotation. The paper states: 
The Association has repeatedly stated that the views of its members on termination of pregnancy are as varied as those of the rest of the community, and it therefore has no stated policy in relation to abortion as such. 
Its concern regarding the motion is related to the wider implications of the proposal to the medical benefits scheme. 
In effect, the proposal would require doctors to provide health funds and the Government with a diagnosis of their patient's condition before benefits for items which might involve termination of pregnancy would be paid. Having provided the diagnosis, the benefits would be paid only if certain narrow criteria were met 
That is another angle. The reason I quote from that paper is to show that there is a division of opinion across a very wide section of the community as a whole. In referring specifically to the motion as it stands- I think we have gone wide of it in many instances, and I might be accused of that too- I make the point that it is payment of medical benefits for abortion. The reason I am opposed to the payment of medical benefits for abortion is contained amongst those reasons I have already stated and it is, of course, the right to life of the unborn child. Following on what I said previously, the problem of unwanted pregnancies still arises and I feel it is important that this matter should be taken into consideration when we are debating this particular motion. I wonder- I think perhaps the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  might have mentioned this aspect- whether we encourage abortion by making abortion easier. Only yesterday a friend of mine told me a story of two young women who were talking about this motion which was to be debated in the Parliament. One said to the other: 'What do you think about it?' The other replied: 'There is some information that it could be passed'. The other one said: Well, what do I do now if I become pregnant?' I think that emphasises the point I want to make and which I think has been forgotten, and that is that the provision of medical benefit payments gives a sense of security to people who may not have that sense of security and who may be prepared to avoid the possibility of becoming pregnant if they have to look after and deal with an unwanted child or face the dangers of an abortion. There are dangers attached to aboriton. It is too often thought that there are not. But let me say that in looking at this problem consideration must be given to the fact that prevention is better than cure. Every assistance should be given to alleviate the difficulties associated with this problem if it occurs. That I believe is something we should recognise. In facing the problem of unwanted pregnancies, more time and effort should be given to creating greater opportunites for young people to learn what is available and allowable in that area. 
In many instances I believe the churches have done an excellent job in this regard, as well as in their job of caring for unmarried mothers of babies and I compliment them on it. Mention was made earlier of the shortage of babies for adoption. In all cases that I know of those babies are well cared for. I would hope that an unmarried pregnant woman would be advised as widely as possible of the help that is available to her, not only from churches but also from State and Commonwealth governments as well. Having said that, and made the point that prevention is better than cure, I point out that I believe that greater effort should be made in that direction, and the energy, capacity and finance of the community should be marshalled and directed to that end, so far as it is practicable to do so. 
Another matter I want to raise is the effect of the abortion on the woman who has been aborted. This is something that is often overlooked. Too many people feel that a woman can have an abortion and that is the end of the matter, that there are no further worries about it and she is back to where she started. That is not right. That widely held belief is completely wrong. Liberalisation of the opportunity to have an abortion does not solve the problem. Indeed, it can lead to the death of some women although that aspect has been greatly reduced. The Royal College of Gynaecologists in London in evidence to the Lace Commission- some years ago, admittedly- observed that the number of deaths from abortion of all kinds in England and Wales was as high then as it was before the Act to liberalise abortion was introduced. The College stated: 
Any decrease in the number of deaths from criminal abortion is matched by a rise in the number of deaths from induced abortion. 
The figures certainly have improved since that time. The Royal College continued: 
So long as termination of pregnancy involves an operation it must mean a risk to life and health. It is yet impossible to assess the long term physical ill effects, let alone the psychological sequelae of induced abortion. 
This is one of the aspects that is so often forgotten in debates on abortion. Action taken by this Parliament might result in encouraging people to be in a position where an abortion might be required. There are many examples of people suffering disabilities following abortion, including the inability to have children when they are wanted later on. 
I contend- this has been the theme of my speech tonight- that this Parliament should do all in its power to discourage unwanted pregnancies. I also contend that while abortions are easily obtainable and the costs are being met a contribution probably is being made to the number of abortions being performed. I believe that is something we should consider before voting on the motion and the amendments. I agree and acknowledge that the amount of criticism with regard to the certification aspects of the motion will have a bearing on the vote that might be taken in this Parliament. I draw attention to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  which deletes from the original motion that part which requires certification. The amendment provides an angle for those who feel that the motion could be lost. I believe that the public will view the defeat of the motion as an indication that the national Parliament favours abortion. That view may not be quite correct. But that is the view that will be adopted if the House does not pass the motion. I hope that that is not the result. 
I will make a couple of points in reply to some of the matters that have been raised. The matter of whether the majority or minority favour abortions was raised. Some politicians have taken a shrewd guess on how the public might react. I hope that does not influence honourable members who are debating this matter tonight. I hope that this Parliament will look at the matter from a moral point of view and from the point of view of the welfare of the Australian community and the moral standing and future of this nation. 
-My contribution today refers to the operations of the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission. I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  whether Telecom has the right to divert a subscriber from the exchange to which he is attached to a new automatic exchange which is over 16 kilometres from his residence when he could be connected to a closer automatic exchange under 16 kilometres from his residence. I believe that such a practice negates the Government's clear undertaking to provide telephone subscribers with up to 16 kilometres of free telephone line construction from an automatic exchange. In one case two homes on the one property are being connected to separate exchanges. I can see no reason for that. It is true to say that one of these subscribers is connected to the same exchange to which he will be connected when it becomes automatic. I believe that when the conversion to automatic exchanges occurs in any district at least all people within 16 kilometres of the exchange and all other subscribers who are closer to that exchange than any other exchange or proposed exchange should be connected to that exchange. That, of course, is the general practice. 
I refer to what I believe is a change from that practice, to which I am very strongly opposed. If Telecom has the right to connect subscribers to exchanges beyond 16 kilometres from their place of residence when they could be connected to an exchange within 16 kilometres, I believe and strongly aver that that right should be taken from it. I hold the strong view that the undertaking by the Government to provide 16 kilometres of free line construction from an automatic exchange should apply to all subscribers within the 16-kilometre range of that exchange, irrespective of the exchange to which they may presently be connected. I accept that Telecom, for the most efficient utilisation of resources, should have the right to divert subscribers from an existing exchange to a new one, but that changeover should not be disadvantageous to the subscriber. 
The whole matter about which I am talking today arises by virtue of the fact that subscribers have been required to connect to a specified exchange, not the closest exchange, which could involve a substantial contribution which would not apply if they were connected to the nearest exchange. I understand that negotiations are taking place with respect to the specific case that I have mentioned. Maybe that anomaly will be rectified. But I contend that this type of planning must not be allowed to occur again, even if it means a change to or clarification of the powers presently exercised by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I ask the Minister to give consideration to this matter in due course. 
I also express concern about the situation with regard to the downgrading of post offices. I recognise that the Australian Postal Commission endeavours to operate as economically as possible and I accept that that is a correct procedure. But it should never be forgotten that both the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission should also provide the best possible services to all sections of the Australian community. The downgrading of official post offices to nonofficial status is, of course, warranted on some occasions due to the falling off of the business conducted and the possible continuation of such a fall-off. On the other hand, if an official post office can be retained, if it is only marginally uneconomic according to the criteria used and if the prospects of development and an increase of business are reasonably good, I contend that the official status should be retained. In this regard I make special reference to the post office at Yarraman in Queensland, which is presently a grade 2 post office and which is listed for downgrading by two grades to non-official status, despite the fact that business in that area is increasing and can be expected to increase because of the proximity of the proposed new power station at Tarong. 
It is claimed by the Commission that the services provided at unofficial post offices are no less than those provided at official post offices. Whilst that may be so, I still argue that official post offices should be retained if it is reasonably practicable to do so. At the same time, I pay a very warm tribute to the services rendered throughout Australia by the dedicated non-official postmasters and postmistresses who provide those services. Despite that, the towns in my electorate which have had official post offices and have had them downgraded to non-official status regret that changeover because it lowers the rating of the town as a community centre. As a government we must be concerned with the promotion of decentralisation. This factor should and does come into consideration when towns suffer a loss of status as a result of any government action or any action by a commission operating under the government. 
The upkeep of buildings, particularly older buildings, is, of course, a burden on the finances of the Commission. I believe that that is one of the reasons why this move to downgrade post offices is occurring. But one also has to remember in relation to the cost of building maintenance that it is most likely that the non-official postmaster would have to use the existing building and carry the heavy maintenance costs involved. So there is no real reason why the Australian Postal Commission, with its greater financial capacity, should not be able to accept that burden. I say that because this would be the usual means by which post office services would be carried on. I suggest further that a very careful examination should be made of the prospects of post offices to be downgraded and that the local community should be fully consulted with regard to future prospects. I suggest that consideration should also be given to giving contracts locally for the maintenance work on these post offices. Those contracts could easily be more economic and would provide employment locally and thereby help in the decentralisation objectives and activities of the Government. 
I have always advocated very strongly the decentralisation of the activities of both Commissions. I believe that the decentralisation of those activities should be promoted by this Parliament and by this Government. I have consistently advocated this aspect of the operations of both Commissions. I have assisted in endeavouring to provide better working accommodation for union members in areas where I regard the accommodation provided as not being up to the standard that I feel government departments or commissions should provide. My colleagues on the Opposition side of the House might take cognisance of the fact that I have received compliments from union officials in my State as a result of those activities. We are accused by honourable members on the Opposition side with being concerned only with trees and things that exist in the country. God help those honourable members if they were not able to be provided with the cheap food which in many instances comes from the people in those rural areas. Their standard of living would be reduced very considerably. I resent very much the accusations that are often thrown by the Opposition at members of my party, in particular that we lack appreciation of the needs and welfare of the working people in country electorates. I challenge those honourable members to take up this matter with the working people in my electorate. I have available a quotation which I have not used to political advantage but which I am prepared to use- 
I often think that one has to say something at least four times before it gets through, given the perception of some of the honourable members who sit opposite. I am only acting on experience in that regard. I have had a lot of experience, particularly with regard to some of the honourable members of this House. I leave the matter at that and hope that the Minister will give consideration to the matters that I have raised this morning on behalf of the people whom I have the privilege to represent and who do such a splendid job in providing export income and in making a contribution to the gross national product of this country. 
Debate interrupted. 
Following yesterday's incident at Sydney International Airport, can the Minister for Transport report to the House on the effectiveness of security measures at that airport? Could yesterday's hijack attempt have been either prevented altogether or stopped at some stage before the hijacker got his victim into an aircraft? Is there a need for a review of our airport security measures. Are they in any way substandard when compared with security measures at other international airports around the world? 
-I join the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other speakers in paying a tribute to Frank Stewart. It was my privilege in my first year in this Parliament to visit Indonesia and the Philippines. Frank Stewart was the  deputy  leader of that delegation. On that occasion he served Australia well, as he did in all the years he was a member of this Parliament. One of the impressions that I gained of Frank Stewart remains very clear in my mind. As has already been said, Frank Stewart was a man of honesty, integrity and determination and a man who gave a clear indication of where he was going. This Parliament can do with more such people. I had occasion to approach Frank Stewart when he was a Minister in the Government of this country with a proposal that I did not expect to be accepted. I believed that it was deserving of acceptance, and it was accepted by Frank Stewart on the basis of the character and principle he exhibited so clearly during the time that he was a member of this Parliament. 
It was with sorrow that I learned of his passing. But I am very pleased to have the opportunity of joining other speakers in paying a tribute to a man whose character, I believe, has lifted the standard of integrity and honesty in this Parliament. However, this high standard is not upheld by every member who comes into this place. It is appropriate that all the speeches that have been made today have centred around the character and courage of a man moving as he thought fit. That is all that any of us can do in service of the country. I admired Frank Stewart. I offer to his wife and family my very sincere condolences. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that some economists argue that income equalisation deposits are of little or no value as taxation benefits for many primary producers? Has the Minister advocated the use of IEDs? If so, can he advise of the benefits that would accrue to primary producers, the Government or both from investment in them by primary producers? 
-The purpose of the Bills before the House in the main is to extend the floor price scheme for wool for the 1978-79 season and to collect revenue from levies which will be credited to the Market Support Fund established by the Australian Wool Corporation. For administrative convenience, as the Minister Assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Adermann)  pointed out, the special levy of 5 per cent is collected in conjunction with the 3 per cent levy that represents woolgrowers' contributions towards the financing of wool research and promotion programs and the administration of the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. The Minister also pointed out that the present levy of 8 per cent has been in force since August 1975. When the scheme was introduced in September 1974 it applied only to the 1974-75 season. Legislative amendments have been required every year since to keep it in operation. This legislation is required to allow the scheme to operate in 1979-80. The purpose of these Bills is to continue the program. 
I draw attention to the fact that the Australian Wool Industry Conference is in full agreement with this legislation. The floor price scheme has been essential in ensuring stability in wool prices since its introduction in the 1974-75 season. I am a great supporter of primary producer organisations such as the Australian Wool Corporation and the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. I believe that governments should take full cognisance of the decisions that they arrive at. No one is perfect and no organisation is perfect. At the same time, primary producer organisations devote a tremendous amount of time and effort to studying the problems of their industries. While they are conscious of the need to give help to those industries which require it, nevertheless the decisions they arrive at and the representations they make are based on very sound research. I commend them for the work they do. 
The flexible reserve price scheme was introduced at wool auctions in November 1970. Following a fall in wool prices late in 1970 the Australian Wool Commission, as it was then termed, commenced the firm reserve price plan in January 1971. This reserve price maintained the price of wool at an average of approximately 64c a kilogram greasy for the whole of 1971. I was Chairman of the Government Members' Wool Committee when the flexible reserve price scheme was introduced. I well recall the concern expressed by a number of members in the Parliament as to what the ultimate cost to the Government would be. Those concerns were expressed pretty freely. The Government, to its credit, continued the scheme. In 1970 the Government was of our persuasion. However, although substantial quantities of wool were bought in, the price was maintained. As the price rose later on the wool bought in was released on to the market and sold profitably by the AWC, thus stabilising the price. This was brought about at no real cost to the Government, despite the dire forebodings of those members who were critical of the scheme at the time. Flexible reserve prices are now introduced when the market price rises above the floor price, and this serves to prevent the fluctuations in price caused by irregularities in demand. This has'been very effective. 
All you would know, about wool is the wool that is sold in the shops. 
You only think you do, and you make many other mistakes as well. The floor price arrangements introduced in September 1974 were based on 250c clean for average 21 micron wool. This level was maintained throughout 1974-75 and 1975-76 despite large stocks being accumulated by the Australian Wool Corporation. 
Your comments are about as empty as you can make them. I think you ought to stick to something that you know something about, if there is anything that you know anything about. These prices were maintained during those seasons, and large stocks were accumulated during that time. This was the basis and the reason for this type of operation. It was not very well understood, as evidenced by the interjections I hear in the House tonight. The wool growers understand it; they benefit by it. It was to the credit of this Government that the price was maintained over that period. Despite the fact that the stocks were accumulated during those years, present stocks of wool have been scaled down and are at a satisfactory level. Indeed, I feel that possibly in the interests of the wool industry it is a good idea to have a certain amount of reserve stock available. At the present time the reserve stocks are quite satisfactory. The floor price was raised in 1976-77 to some 234c a kilogram clean compared with 206c a kilogram clean in 1975-76. The previous method of expressing floor price in terms of 2 1 microns was dropped at that time. Now it is referred to as so much a kilogram clean. 
On 1 December 1976 the floor price increased further by the full extent of devaluation to 284c a kilogram clean. There were plenty of people who were quite opposed to any sort of devaluation in this country, but it did serve a purpose so far as that great export industry was concerned. In 1978-79 the floor price will be maintained at 289c a kilogram clean, and the 1979-80 floor price will not be less than this. That is the guarantee that the wool growers have. It is not only a guarantee of price to the wool grower, but it also serves a very useful purpose of enabling a buyer of wool to know that whatever the market conditions are he is not going to reach a situation in which next week he could be buying wool at a much different price from the price operating this week. This gives the buyer confidence that he can go into the market, knowing that that is the floor price and that his competitors will not get wool any cheaper than that. That is one of the great factors of the scheme, and one that is often overlooked. I mentioned previously the levy that the wool growers pay on the gross value of the sales. This is held by the Corporation Market Support Fund, as well as a 3 per cent levy which represents the wool growers contribution to research and promotion. 
There is no question that this whole operation has been a wonderful thing for the wool industry. I well recall that people in my area were talking, and my area grows some of the finest wool in Australia, I might say. 
Yes, that means the world. 
Yes, it is Maranoa. Concern was felt then, despite what has been said tonight, as to what was going to happen to the wool industry. The wool growers were very worried about it. Finally a scheme was brought down which did preserve this industry. Now we find this established organisation, this established operation, is such that it has given great confidence to the wool industry generally. I can see this operation or something similar continuing well into the future. It is established, it can be maintained. There is a need for these sorts of fibres, and they have already proved their worth throughout the years. 
The scheme does contribute to the wool industry, and through the industry to the sound economy of Australia. There was a time when, it was said, Australia rode on the sheep's back. That statement does not apply to the same extent today, but wool still does play a very important part in the national economy. 
The wool industry is labour intensive by comparison with some other primary industries. Because of that it contributes greatly to the progress and economic welfare of country towns and the people who reside in them. The- shearing, the treating of sheep, the mustering and the fencing work carried out in wool growing areas are of assistance to decentralisation. The tragedy is that there was a time when wool prices fell so low that the industry was unprofitable and this great contribution to decentralisation for our country towns was reduced to a great extent. Wool prices are now satisfactory and more people are coming back to the country towns, which is pleasing to see, but there is still a degree of concern about the number of shearers who will be available. There is also concern about the number of workmen who will be available to undertake repairs to farm improvements, such as fencing, which are rundown, and perhaps to do timber work and work on waterways, which contribute so much to the economic viability of the industry. 
In a recent visit to the western areas I heard of some people complaining about the lack of labour to do this sort of work. So jobs are available in those outlying areas. It is essential that the wool industry should have available to it the type of labour that is necessary to maintain it. I am sure, as far as anyone can foretell the future, that those who are prepared to undertake this type of work would be assured of constant employment. 
A responsibility rests upon the people of Australia generally to utilise the productive capacity of the nation. The wool growers are making a worthwhile contribution in this respect. An industry that is stabilised to the extent that this scheme has enabled it to become stabilised certainly will make a great contribution in that regard. Sometimes when appeals are made for assistance to rural industry I find a good deal of resistance on the part of many people who do not understand the problems of the industry. The resistance to the request for assistance that is being made by supporters of my party and by Government supporters generally is much greater than it is to requests for assistance from secondary industry. Assistance is readily handed out there. I do not condemn that because secondary industry does provide employment for the labour force, which is necessary for the balanced development of this country, but I do say that too often there are claims that the people in rural industry are asking for too much. The people in rural districts live under conditions well removed from the beneficial conditions that exist in metropolitan areas. I remind the House that it is only in recent years that some of those deserving towns scattered throughout this country- some of which are in the electorate of my friend the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  as well as in my own electorate and perhaps in your electorate of Forrest,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  have received broadcasting from the national television station. There are many towns that are still waiting for this facility. There are not too many people in Australia who are unduly concerned about the difficulties faced by the people who live in these areas and who contribute so much through the wool industry and other primary industries to the welfare of Australian people. 
As the honourable member for Mallee said, some do not even have telephones. Some of those who do have to pay trunk line charges for nearly all their calls. The cost to them of telephonic communication is very high. I just hope that the Australian Telecommunications Commission will take their situation into consideration. In fact, I know that it is doing so. I look forward to an improvement in the size of local call zones and local call facilities to encompass the nearest business centre so as to alleviate to some extent the heavy financial burden that rests on the shoulders of those who live in the areas where most of the wool growing takes place, even though some wool is grown in areas where communications are better than they are in the outlying areas of many electorates including my own electorate. 
I commend the Government for introducing the Bills which I support wholeheartedly. I hope that the few comments I have made about the need for people to look at the balanced development of Australia will lead people to give some consideration to this matter. For example, funds are required to support the stability of the wool industry, despite the fact that the price of wool is reasonably satisfactory at the moment. I am sick and tired of hearing people say, as soon as the rain falls, that all the drought problems are over. As soon as cattle prices rise, as is now the case, we are told that the cattle producer does not need or deserve the assistance for which he sometimes asks. The difficulties are too readily forgotten. I hope that the Government will give consideration to the needs of wool growers, in particular- they are involved in the Bills we are discussing- and primary producers generally to allow them to continue to play the part that is the responsibility of the Australian nation, that is, the utilisation of the productive capacity of this nation. I support the Bills against that background. 
-I wish to pay a very warm and sincere tribute to a great Australian, the late Rt  Hon. Sir Charles  Adermann. I join the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other speakers in that tribute. Few tributes have been more sincere than those paid today to  Sir Charles;  Few tributes, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said, have been more deserved because of his great character. He was a splendid parliamentarian and he served Australia, this Parliament and the electorates of Maranoa and Fisher with great credit and distinction to himself and to the benefit of those areas. I enjoyed a close lifelong friendship with  Sir Charles  and with his family. It was a very valued friendship and one which I was proud always to claim. 
Before entering parliament  Sir Charles  served in local government as  chairman  of the Kingaroy Shire Council. He served agriculture in many ways, including as  chairman  of the Queensland Peanut Marketing Board. He spent the first six years of a long and distinguished parliamentary career as the member for Maranoa and when the electorate was divided he became the member for Fisher, which electorate included his home town, Kingaroy. That electorate is now very splendidly served by his son, the  Hon.  Evan Adermann, the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. During a long period in Parliament as a back bencher, as  Chairman  of Committees and as a Minister he set a very fine example of parliamentary behaviour while promoting with great vigour, determination and effect the causes that he espoused. The fact that his behaviour in this place was exemplary in no way affected the results that he achieved. He set an example to every member of this Parliament in that direction, an example that I believe all honourable members could worthily strive to emulate. 
As has been mentioned, he became  Deputy  Leader of the then Country Party, under the leadership of  Sir John  McEwen. He served in that position with great success over the years, to the advantage of the party and the nation. Many of the things that I could say have already been mentioned. I will not repeat them. I conclude by saying that Lady Adermann, the honourable Evan Adermann and other members of the family, can be very proud of  Sir Charles  Adermann 's outstanding record of public service and the fact that he always maintained the very highest standard of public spirited Christian citizenship. I extend to Lady Adermann, Evan Adermann and other members of the family my sincerest sympathy. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to repeated charges and counter-charges by both Vietnam and China of armed incursions across their respective borders, and I ask the Minister: Has any progress been made in seeking a negotiated settlement to the conflict between Vietnam and China? Is there a danger that both sides could revert to military force if the negotiations break down? 
-The first thing that I want to do in this debate is refer to the comments made by the  speaker  who has just resumed his seat, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  who spoke on behalf of the Australian Labor Party.  His  comments were more or less a repetition of statements made earlier in the debate by another representative of the Labor Party. I refer to the totally unjustified denigration of the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board,  Sir Leslie  Price. So far as I and the great majority of the Australian wheat growers are concerned,  Sir Leslie  Price has done a magnificent job. The fact that he was knighted for his services to the industry appears to be something that has got under the skin of members of the Labor Party. If he does something in the way of supporting the industry that is in line with Government policy, they say he is under the control of the Government. I would like to know what members of the Opposition think about the action of  Mr Egerton  in accepting a knighthood. It was reported recently that the Labor Party would like to have him back. It would improve the Labor Party considerably if it did have him back. The Labor Party has attacked the Wheat Board and  Sir Leslie  Price because they happened to take some action which coincided with what the Government thought was in the best interests of the Australian wheat growers. It should not attack honest, responsible, capable and dedicated men who have used their time in the interests of the Australian wheat growers and, through the Australian wheat growers, the interests of every resident of the Australian nation. I refer to what someone has said in that regard. He said: 
It appeared to many outside observers that the  Chairman  - 
That is, the  Chairman  of the Wheat Board-  in isolation, had decided to oblige the Minister who had appointed him and the party which had knighted him and present the Board with a fait accompli. 
Practically the same words were used by the honourable member for Parramatta. Apparently some kind of circular goes to Labor Party members to give them something to talk about. The  speaker  whom I have quoted went on to say: 
As I understand it, no Board meeting was held but evidently Board members were canvassed and the majority agreed to reverse the decision made at a formal meeting held one week earlier. I think the circumstances of the Board's action are a little extraordinary, but I do not think we should make too much of it. 
Labor Party members cannot stop talking about it. The very fact that the Board might change a decision in the light of information given to it indicates only that it is capable of arriving at a decision which it feels is in the best interests of the Australian people even though it might change a decision made some time earlier. As was mentioned, the Board did not agree immediately to raise the funds it was asked to raise. It would have preferred- I suppose that most of the wheat growers and representatives of the wheat growers would have preferred- that those funds to come from the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank of Australia. That has been the method used over the years. However, it has been pointed out- the Labor Party will not accept it- that this was a very special occasion. It was a time when the largest wheat crop ever recorded in Australia had been harvested. A very high first payment had to be met. The Government recommended that the Wheat Board should, go outside normal procedures and borrow money from another source. This was to help the Australian economy. Apparently members of the Australian Labor Party will have no part in any action which is to the benefit of the nation as a whole, providing they can denigrate the Government. They have said that this action is a subsidy to the Australian wheat growers. I ask members of the Labor Party again whether they consider that action to guarantee interest rates on money borrowed by the Australian Wheat Board to bring them into line with the interest rates charged by the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank is a subsidy to the Australian wheat growers. 
-The honourable member says: 'Of course it is'. This has been the method of financing the Australian wheat growers over the years. So over all those years members of the Australian Labor Party have apparently considered that that was subsidisation of the Australian wheat growers. Why do they not say that at the next election if that is what they believe? Let them say what interest rates the Australian wheat growers, through the Australian Wheat Board, ought to pay. I repeat that I believe that the denigration of the Australian Wheat Board in this debate by the Australian Labor Party was totally unjustified. It was a disgrace. I think that the Australian wheat growers will recall that denigration. They will remember that the people who have worked so hard in their interests are denigrated in the Parliament and have no opportunity to reply. 
The Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill specifies existing powers for the Australian Wheat Board to raise funds. It provides a capacity for the Board to obtain funds from sources in a variety of ways which it was not previously empowered to do. I make the point that the Board was not previously empowered to do that. It has only now been given the right to move away. The rate of interest which it has been paying through the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank of Australia has been long established. The Government suggested special circumstances in which the Board should raise funds in other ways. The Board finally accepted and it is now empowered to do so. The second reading speech of" the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  details the avenues through which such funds can be raised. I will not repeat them. These borrowings should be able to be made under favourable conditions. The Act enables the Minister to provide a Commonwealth guarantee of repayment of both principal and interest. I suppose that members of the Australian Labor Party would regard that as a special concession to the Australian wheat growers. If they think that let them say so on the election platform when they are appealing to the people for support. The costs of borrowing will also be reduced to some extent as a result of the 
Bill giving the Minister the power to determine that stamp duty or similar tax will not be payable on certain classes of securities that may be dealt with by the Board. That point was made effectively and eloquently by the well-known and highly successful honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  The Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill enables reimbursement to be made to the Australian What Board for certain costs of borrowing above the costs that would be incurred if funds were provided by the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank. It simply puts other loans on the same footing. I very much doubt that the Australian Wheat Board would have agreed to borrow outside the Reserve Bank as freely as it did if that had not been the case. Funds have been raised for the benefit of the Australian economy without any cost to the Australian wheat grower. 
The Australian Wheat Board and grower organisations would have preferred the finance to have been made available, as it has been previously, through the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank. There is no doubt about that. We do not question it. But the action taken was in the best interests of Australia and the wheat growers. The Board accepted that. The Minister said in his second reading speech that the Board entered into the new arrangements at the request of the Government. We are not denying that. The Government was looking, as always, at the soundness of the economy of this country. The Government felt and the Australian Wheat Board accepted that the new financial arrangements would be in the best interests of all Australians. That is the test to apply. The Australian Labor Party is not prepared to apply it. All it wants to do is to make cheap political capital out of the actions that have been taken. 
The Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill ensures that the Board or the wheat industry does not have to meet any extra costs of borrowing above the costs that would be incurred if the money were borrowed from the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank. Australian Labor Party speakers want Australian wheat growers to meet those extra costs. They cannot deny that. That is the theme of their comments. If they think otherwise, why would they say that the wheat growers are being subsidised? They cannot have it both ways. It could be suggested that the reimbursement of costs of borrowing as defined under the Bill would be a subsidy, as the Labor Party has suggested, but that is not so as the normal method of financing has been through the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank. The only reason that finance is now to come from other sources is that that is in the interests of the Australian economy as a whole. It should not be done at the expense of the Australian wheat growers, despite the attitude of the Australian Labor Party in this debate. 
Money provided in this way contributed directly to the money supply in the Australian economy. It is against that background that the Government suggested to the Wheat Board that it might undertake to raise funds in the way I have outlined, thereby contributing to maintaining the Government's economic policy objectives. They are sound objectives which have enabled the inflation rate in this country to be cut in half. If the Labor Party had been in power the inflation rate would have reached unprecedented heights, given the present economic climate throughout the world. Concern has been expressed by wheat growers that this method of financing with the Government's reimbursing extra costs could be continued without the Government's reimbursing the extra costs involved. Listening to the Labor Party, the wheat growers have every reason to fear that this would happen if the Labor Party ever got back to office, which would be to the detriment of this country. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was criticising the denigration of the Australian Wheat Board and its  Chairman  by the members of the Australian Labor Party. I would like now to refer to the fact that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation represents the vast majority of Australian wheat growers and has a long and very creditable record of dedicated and highly efficient service to the benefit of all Australian wheat growers. That organisation does support the Australian Wheat Board in all of its activities. I think it is worthy of mention that the uncertainty of production in primary industry and particularly in the wheat industry is demonstrated by the fact that production of wheat in Australia in 1972-73 was 6.590 million tonnes while in 1978-79 it is expected to reach a record high level of approximately 18.5 million tonnes. The uncertainty of production does indicate the necessity for assistance to be given to this industry to enable it to overcome the vagaries of climate as well as price variations. World wheat production also fluctuates quite substantially, as evidenced by the fact that production in 1978 was estimated at 441 million tonnes compared with the 1977 figure of 385.5 million tonnes. 
Producer returns are related largely to world priced prices. It is therefore necessary that the most satisfactory and economic wheat industry stabilisation policy should be provided. Australian wheat growers are among the most efficient in the world- perhaps the most efficient- and they compete on world markets without receiving the same percentage of government assistance that is provided for some of our competitors operating on world markets. When people are talking about the assistance that is given to this great industry, they should compare it with the assistance that is given to industry in other countries. 
It is vitally important that the wheat industry should remain viable not only in the interests of the wheat farmer but also in the interests of the national economy. People tend to overlook and perhaps forget the great contribution made by the wheat industry to the decentralisation of Australia's population and its contribution to employment in many ways. Too often we hear lip-service given to decentralisation projects. Too often we hear people talking about the value of decentralisation. But when it comes to representations being made by myself, by members of my Party and by members of the Government in an effort to get some assistance in this area we are howled down. It is all words and no action. We are not supported in that direction. 
The narrow confines of the Bills under decision do not allow for a wide ranging debate on the industry, but I have taken the opportunity to reply to some of the statements that have been made. I want to stress the importance of the industry remaining a viable industry so that the matters about which I have just spoken- its employment value and its decentralisation valuecan continue and indeed improve. I therefore urge the Government to take cognisance of the requests made by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, which represents the growers, to ensure that as far as possible the viability of the industry is maintained. It is against that background that I have been urging that the Government should take no notice of those representations that have been predominant in Labor Party attitudes in relation to subsidy and the amount of interest that is paid on money which is raised outside the normal method of borrowing through the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
I am very pleased that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  is at present in the chair. We are apt to forget or to overlook the work done by the Government Members Rural Committee of which you,  Sir, are  the  Chairman. 
I know that a good deal of time is spent by that Committee in meeting representatives of all sections of the industry to try to arrive at sensible and balanced decisions for presentation to the Government. The Secretary of that Committee is none other than my friend the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  and I pay tribute to that Committee for the work it has done and the amount of time it has spent in trying to resolve the problems faced by the industry. The members of the Committee meet representatives from all sections of the community, including growers and other people. I know that people who want to address that Committee are always made welcome, provided that they represent responsible bodies. It is as a result of that work that we do get sound advice from that Committee of which, as I said, you happen to be the very highly respected  Chairman. 
I was asked to try to limit my remarks in this debate. Although there are many things about which I would like to talk, I will just touch on one or two things that the Australian Wheat Board has done. It has introduced a discounting facility for wheat growers. A good deal of work has been done by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation in many ways to try to make things a little easier for the wheat growers whom it serves. It has worked hard in connection with the wheat stabilisation fund. It has made a tremendous effort in presenting a case for sound home consumption prices. I would like to comment on trading on the domestic market, which has occupied quite some time in this debate. At the 106th Australian Agricultural Council meeting held in Christchurch, New Zealand, on 29 and 30 January this year the following resolution in respect of trading on the domestic market was passed: 
The Australian Wheat Board will continue as sole seller for the domestic market. The Bulk Handling Authorities may need, however, to use their powers, with the Board's approval, to license agents to receive, handle, store and transport wheat under specified conditions consistent with the overall marketing arrangement. 
Discussions with representatives of the Wheatgrowers Federation and the Wheat Board have revealed that they are prepared to give sympathetic consideration to any problem that may arise whereby assistance may be required in special cases in which it could be desirable that agents other than the Wheat Board operate on the domestic market. The Board and the Federation do not have a closed door on that at all. They really want to retain control of the domestic marketing in the best interests of all wheat growers. At a meeting in Perth not so long ago  Sir Leslie  Price emphasised that if control were to be taken out of the hands of the Board, it would be greatly handicapped and left with the residue of the home consumption market. That would not be practicable and the Board might even have to bow right out. I am sure that no Australian wheat grower who has an understanding of the value of orderly marketing would want that to happen. I support the Bills. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (2.24)-Like the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  I hope that when I have finished my speech I too will be able to say that I am pleased that you are in the Chair,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-The Minister for Trade and Resources will be aware of reports that China is seriously reassessing its ambitious development program. In fact, it has suspended some substantial contracts with Japan, I ask the Minister: What effects are China's second thoughts about development likely to have on Australia 's trade with that country? 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources whether the Government will undertake action to supplement Australia's fuel supply by providing special encouragement to the development of alternative forms of fuel? 
-In speaking to the Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Bill, first of all let me make some comments on the speeches that have been made already. I was very disappointed with the speech made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  when he denigrated his home State in a manner that was not justified. I am very proud of the progress and development that are taking place there. The population growth and the progress that is being made are contrary to the comments that he made. I regretted very much hearing that from a representative of our State of Queensland. I believe that it was done largely from a party political point of view. Of course, Queensland is a very large State and has a decentralised population. That increases the cost of transport. There are a number of other reasons why Queensland would make application to the Grants Commission for assistance. Apparently honourable members on the Labor side of the House do not want Queensland to get money that it is entitled to receive through the Grants Commission. I do not know why they would want to take that attitude. The Grants Commission is an impartial body. It looks at the claims before it and sits in judgment on those claims. If Queensland is entitled to funds under the Grants Commission, I for one will say that Queensland should get those funds. 
Another point which was made with regard to Queensland was that one of the reasons why it has attracted people is the abolition of death duties. I take it from what the Labor representative said that if Labor got into power in Queensland it would reimpose death duties. That is the answer. It must be the inference that is drawn from that. 
-That is a marvellous idea. But let me remind members of the Labor Party that one of their most successful leaders in the State sphere,  Mr Wran,  is going to abolish death duties if he can. That is his aim and objective. He would like to follow the lead of Queensland. He is doing his very best to do that. Recently, there was a report that an area in northern New South Wales would like to become a part of the State of Queensland. The people there would like to have the boundary moved south so that they can be a part of the great State of Queensland. Contrary to what my friend, the honourable member for Griffith, has said, I am a great supporter of the progress and development of Queensland. I will argue always that it should be the State that gets all the benefits that are available to it, and it will use those benefits very well. 
This has been a wide-ranging debate, but let me get back to the Bill. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in his second reading speech: 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment to Queensland of $ 12.4m in 1 979-80 as a special grant. 
In accordance with normal practice, the Bill also seeks authority for payment of advances to Queensland in the early months of 1980-8 1 - 
Apparently the Labor Party thinks that Queensland should not have them- pending receipt of the Commission's recommendation for that year and enactment of necessary legislation to provide for any special grant that may be payable to the State in that year. 
Queensland's estimated entitlement in respect of 1979-80 under the personal income tax sharing arrangements is $947.8m, representing approximately $431 per head of population compared with an estimated average of approximately $323 per head for New South Wales and Victoria. Accordingly, the assistance provided by way of the special grant should be seen as supplementing the special compensatory assistance of $109 per head, or some $239m, provided to Queensland by way of its tax sharing entitlement 
I just hope that Queensland will be able to get these funds. It has not got all that it is entitled to under the income tax sharing arrangements, because of the wrong estimate of its population. It has been getting some of it back through the Grants Commission, to which I will refer later. Including this grant, total figures should ensure that the States will be able to continue their works program- Queensland is included in that- insofar as the total Commonwealth payments to the States, plus borrowing entitlements, are concerned. Borrowings with Commonwealth Government underwriting are an important source of funds for the States and must be considered when looking at the capacity of the States to finance their undertakings. 
In regard to the tax sharing arrangements, as I have said before Queensland has claimed that owing to a short counting of its population it has received less than it should have received. I believe it is a justifiable complaint. However, my understanding is that although Queensland has received less from the tax sharing arrangements than an accurate assessment of its population would have entitled it to receive, some of the shortfall in revenue has been made up by the Grants Commission taking that factor into consideration. So it is a good thing that the Commission did look at the Queensland situation, if only to rectify that error. I hope and expect that any outstanding entitlement will also be made available to Queensland. Even allowing for these facts the position is most unsatisfactory to Queensland. To get the funds it is entitled to and which other States get as a right, Queensland has to make an approach and is dependent on the Grants Commission to make up the shortfall of its full entitlement. But according to honourable members on the Opposition side, Queensland should not go to the Grants Commission. It would therefore miss out on receiving those funds it was denied because of the short count in population. 
I would not know; they should not. Because the present scheme for capital assistance and States grants is due - 
-My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. He will be aware of the recent discovery of oil in the Surat Basin in Queensland and the extensive oil exploration program planned for inland Queensland? Can the  Deputy  Prime Minister say to what extent these oil exploration programs have been encouraged by the Government's oil pricing policy? 
-Is the  Deputy  Prime Minister aware of the serious harm which is being caused to the farming and grazing industries in Australia by the excessive numbers of kangaroos which are damaging crops and pastures? What action has the Government taken to try to persuade the United States authorities to lift their ban on imports of kangaroo products so that a market can be opened up for these products? Will the Minister take any further action to request the United States to act in this matter? In particular, will he draw the attention of authorities in that country to the effectiveness of the sound kangaroo management program which is now in operation in Australia? 
