My question, which I address to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the situation in Laos. Will the Minister advise as to the activities of the International Control Commission in the present Laotian situation and as to whether any report has been made by the Commission? Is the Minister aware whether a report has been made by a delegation of South East Asian parliamentarians who visited Laos recently to study the situation? Is the Minister aware of the protests by Australian Labor Party so called peace groups and others to the act of naked North Vietnamese aggression against Laos? Does the evidence suggest that, in the eyes of these people, a war becomes an immoral war only when Communist aggression is opposed? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  we are witnessing an amazing spectacle tonight. We have had a build up in the Press and in other mass media of this new united Australian Labor Party which is going to fight the Government and which is the alternative Government. We have had a build up of the fine young fighting' men who have come into this Parliament from the Australian Labor Party. We have been told thai the Government will be under the greatest pressure. Well, here was an opportunity tonight. For the first time that 1 can remember in my period in this Parliament, an amendment has not been moved to the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech by the Australian Labor Party. Members of the Opposition are showing a disinclination to debate the AddressinReply. One can assume only either that the build up has gone to their heads: thai they are convinced that the public will believe what the Press is saying and so they need do nothing about it, or that they have not in fact the will to fight. Another alternative. I suppose, is that the far reaching proposals contained in the Governor-General's Speech have left them dumbfounded. II is extraordinary that the Party which  Senator McManus  represents . and which  Mr Whitlam  has said has no right in this Parliament is the only party .which has moved an amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
That is a matter of judgment. I will say this for the honourable senator's Party: What it says makes more sense and is more constructive than what the Australian Labor Party proposes. It will be interesting to see as this debate develops how many members of this new. untied, fighting, progressive Party stand up and tell us what they believe in. 
Yes, but they will come back. Unless the performance by honourable senators opposite improves considerably on what we have seen in the last two days, my colleagues will be back pretty soon. Do not make any mistake about that. The Governor-General, in outlining the Government's programme, dealt with a large range of proposals and a considerable amount of legislation. Tonight T wish to deal only with several matters of national importance which were raised by the Governor-General. 

 His Excellency referred to our commitment to Malaysia and Singapore at the request of the governments of those two countries. This commitment in the past - and we must talk in the past tense in dealing with the Australian Labor Party - has been criticised on many grounds, some philosophical. The Australian Labor Party, of course, as an isolationist party does not believe in the commitment of Australian troops overseas. The Australian Labor Party does not support the forward posture concept which is supported by this Government and by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Members of the Australian Labor Party have also criticised the stationing of Australian troops in Malaysia and Singapore on the ground that the number of troops stationed there was so small as to be farcical and would not deter aggression. This seems to me to show a peculiar misunderstanding of the issues involved. 
The forces which are stationed in these countries are there not only for military purposes but also to demonstrate a political will. One of the major problems that confronts the countries of South East Asia in particular in the face of the external threat from Communism is that of confidence. They must be assured that friends are available and willing to provide support should that support be required. Governments of nations that are threatened must know that support will be available when they are threatened and not at some unforseeable time in the future. It is notorious and reasonable that governments in developing areas, particularly in South East Asia and, indeed, in Africa and South America, because of the lack of political and economic stability, are unsure of themselves. They face internal subversion. We as a Government have made it quite clear that our forces are not to be committed in cases of internal subversion or civil war. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his defence statement some considerable time ago made this fact, I think, patently clear. He said that at all times our forces will be under the command of Australian commanders and the Australian Government. They will be available only in the case of external attack or when, in the opinion of the Government, there is a threat of external subversion. The knowledge of this undertaking provides a sense of security in these countries that is essential to their further economic and political development. Without it, instability would continue to be a major problem that would be an impediment to economic and political progress. This seems to me to be the major reason for our commitment in these areas. It is, 1 repeat, to demonstrate a political will. 
Having dealt briefly with Malaysia and Singapore, I turn briefly to the situation in Vietnam. The Governor-General has clearly restated the Australian Government's position on Vietnam. I noted today with some perplexity that, in a question to the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson), Senator Georges  referred to the United States withdrawal as some gigantic hoax. I really think that members of this new united - or disunited - Opposition should get together because I heard gloating questions asked by members of the Opposition, particularly by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  referring to the United States withdrawal as a recognition of defeat by the United States in Vietnam. Yet  Senator Georges  refers to it as some sort of gigantic hoax. Those senators who take great comfort in the United States withdrawal should understand the facts of the situation. It is quite clear - the evidence is conclusive - that the military and political positions in South Vietnam have improved to the extent that fewer troops are now required or are necessary to hold the position. Admittedly there are still very grave economic problems, as one would expect in a country which has been under attack for so long. But because of the military and political positions, and because of the success of the policy of Vietnamisation, fewer United States troops are required than was formerly the case. 
I suppose if there can be one criticism of the United States effort in South Vietnam it is that in the past it has placed too little reliance on building up the South Vietnamese forces and has made it a purely American operation. But in the past 12 to 18 months there has been a change of policy and the South Vietnamese have shown themselves to be not only willing but also able to bear a far greater burden in the defence of their own country. They are showing a new confidence in their ability to do so. One fear that I would express is that the withdrawal must not be so precipitous as to destroy confidence, as confidence  is  the key not only to the problem of Vietnam but also to the problem of South East Asia generally. It is essential that Thailand, which is under threat and which for a considerable time has been suffering from the effects of subversion from inside and outside, should be confident that should a situation arise in which it is unable to handle an attack from outside its borders, forces will be available to defend ils territorial integrity. If this confidence does not exist the domino theory will have much validity, not necessarily through military attack but through the loss of confidence in the governments of South East Asia which will lead to an increasing swing to the left and a destruction of the will to resist, lt seems to me that this is one of the major objectives in South East Asia today, not only in Vietnam but also in other areas. ] remind honourable senators that Lee Kuan Yew, the Socialist, is on record as having said that if South Vietnam falls, all the little fishes in Asia will fall also. In the past Lee Kuan Yew has been hailed by the Labor Party as the great hope of Asia, but we do not hear so much about him today. 
The United Stales' objectives in South East Asia have been questioned, but I believe that the objectives are unchanged. A study of  President  Nixon's speeches reveals that he has made it quite clear in the strongest terms that the United States is determined that aggression shall nol succeed and that his country's objective in South Vietnam remains unchanged. He has stated the objective as being the right of the South Vietnamese people to decide on their own government and system of government without having one forced on them by external aggression. One might even question whether the Truman doctrine does not still hold as the basis of United States policy, although the emphasis has certainly changed. The United States today insists, 1 believe rightly, that the countries of South East Asia should do more to help themselves. The United States is prepared to provide facilities to enable South East Asian countries to build up their own strength so that they are reasonably able to defend themselves, and only as a last resort will United States forces, particularly ground forces, again be committed to serve in South East Asia. There is nothing new in this. 
Several years before becoming the  President  of the United States, in an article which at that time received a great deal of attention,  President  Nixon stated this policy quite clearly. 
Having said this, and having reminded the Senate that the grave danger is a loss of confidence, not only in Vietnam because of a precipitous withdrawal but also in other countries of South East Asia, I suggest that the objective of North Vietnam today is, as it has always been, to destroy the will of the United States people to resist aggression. 
 I would be very happy to engage in a debate on this subject. 
Here or anywhere else. I rely on a statement which  Senator Cavanagh  would regard as coming from an impeccable source. I refer to the Communists, who have made it crystal clear that the North Vietnamese have engaged in aggression and have ' mounted an armed attack on the people of South Vietnam. For the benefit of  Senator Cavanagh  1 remind the Senate that in 1954 Ho Chi Minh announced, within 2 days of the signing of the Geneva Agreements, that the objective of North Vietnam was to take over .South Vietnam. 
1 do nol want to be led away, but  Senator Cavanagh  has asked this interesting question: Why would wc not permit a free election? T shall give  Senator Cavanagh  one reason- there are many others - why one would not agree to a free election. Would  Senator Cavanagh  guarantee, or could he guarantee, that there could have been free elections in North Vietnam in 1956? Would the Diem regime, or any other political party in South Vietnam, have been granted complete freedom to campaign in North Vietnam? Would they have been granted complete freedom in North Vietnam at a time when the Communist government of North Vietnam was engaged in a massacre of tens of thousands of North Vietnamese whom the Communists regarded  as enemies of Communism? As General Giap, the Commander-in-Chief of the North Vietnamese Army, admitted, too many innocent people were murdered and tortured during that period. Yet we hear from  Senator Cavanagh  that we should have permitted free elections. Would Ho Chi Minh have allowed free elections? 
I am thinking of Don Sak and Hue. I did not hear  Senator Cavanagh  protest against the terror and torture of South Vietnamese people from 1956 on. There was never one word from him or from one member of the Labor Party about the torture, murder and kidnapping of South Vietnamese people. The Communists concentrated on people with authority or the power to exercise authority. School teachers, village leaders and government administrators were tortured in a deliberate campaign of terror, but there was not one word from the Opposition about this. I repeat this as an answer to all the hypocrisy about free elections in 1956 when everybody knows that in not one country under Communist control have free elections ever been allowed. I challenge  Senator Cavanagh  to name one Communist country where there have ever been free elections. This exposes the falsity and the stupidity of the argument about free elections. Ho Chi Minh would never have allowed free elections. 
I ask  Senator Hendrickson,  who is interjecting and is very sensitive about this, whether he can produce one statement by Ho Chi Minh, the North Vietnamese Communist leader, that would have guaranteed free elections in North Vietnam - one statement at a time when the Communists were murdering their political opponents. 
One day we will have a debate on the Geneva Agreements and the part the French Government played. I will be only too happy to do this. Let us get the correct interpretation and not the misrepresentation we hear from the Opposition concerning the Geneva Agreements which were never signed by the Government of South Vietnam and therefore was never bound by the Agreements. 
It is not wriggling out of it; it happens to be a fact of life. May I repeat for  Senator Cavanagh's  edification that within 2 days of the signing of the Geneva Agreements Ho Chi Minh announced the armed struggle against South Vietnam. This, of course, raises an interesting point. The objective of the Communists in North Vietnam is to destroy the will to resist, and that objective has been assisted willingly or unwillingly by the Australian Labor Party and its so-called bogus peace groups. 
What belonged to them? 
South Vietnam did not belong to the Communists of North Vietnam. Vietnam was in the same position as Germany and Korea. It was partitioned and there were separate governments in each area. The North Vietnamese believed that South Vietnam would fall like a ripe plum and when it did not they were upset. [Quorum formed]. Having stated this, may I refer, as my authority for saying that a Communist victory in South Vietnam would be against Australia's interests, to a statement made by the ex-Leader of the Labor Party,  Mr Arthur  Calwell, in the days before darkness descended upon him.  Mr Calwell  is quoted in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' of 19th February 1965. I quoted this once before, and I think it was  Senator Mulvihill  who interjected and said that it was a good statement. So I hope to hear him interject similarly again tonight.  Mr Calwell  was quoted as having said: 
The demand of the Soviet Government for the immediate departure of all Americans and other foreign forces from South Vietnam would be in the interests neither of the people of South Vietnam nor the people of Australia. 
I quote this in support of my statement that a Communist victory in South Vietnam would be against the interests of Australia.  Mr Calwell  made this statement after a meeting of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. Perhaps darkness had not descended on it either.  Mr Calwell  went on to say: 
Its immediate consequences must be a Communist takeover of South Vietnam snuffing out the hope of freedom and of democratic independence in that country and extending the area of Communist control closer to this country. 
This was said in 1965. It was the opinion of  Mr Calwell  expressed after a meeting of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. 
He was proven wrong. Members opposite should either denounce what  Mr Calwell  said or accept it and argue that the situation of 1970 is different from the situation of 1965. 
You tell me and I will know. I want to refer very briefly to the question of psychological warfare because the Australian Communist Party has had much to say about this in the past and perhaps we will hear some comment from the Opposition. In one of its journals it dealt with the role of the protest movement and said: 
The Communist Party has been the driving force in the whole struggle. 
Now we are getting it. 
The article continued: 
There has been unity of action around the common points in ALP, Communist and ACTU policy in Vietnam. 
Yet when we quote these statements and say that the Labor Party -  Mr Whitlam  has said this, of course - has a good deal of Communist influence we are told that we are smearing. Apparently it is now being smeared by the Communist Party. 
I  Senator Milliner  - And in the church, too. 
Yes, some sections of the church, too, I would agree. 
The sections which support bogus peace movements and the like. An article in the 'Communist Review' complained: 
Very seldom are the demonstrators' placards framed to convey the protest in the most vital fundamental terms, that what the Governments of Australia and the US are doing is wrong because it is morally wrong. The seeds of victory- 
That is a Communist victory - are in the solution of the moral question. 
I only want to comment finally on this that when I say that the Communists are being assisted willingly or unwillingly by members of the Australian Labor Party they are, in the words of the Communist Party, seeking to destroy the will to resist. This is what the Communist Party wishes them to do. If honourable senators have a quarrel they should not quarrel with me - they should quarrel with the Communist Party. Having dealt with this matter I now turn to another subject. 
I am happy at any time to have a full scale debate on this subject, but I would now like to turn to health. I am very pleased that the Government is now taking care of those sections of the community who have found hospital and medical insurance a problem. This proposal was announced in the Governor-General's Speech. 
I am not accusing the honourable senator of Communism. The Communist Party is accusing you of being supporters. I am delighted to know that the Governor-General's Speech indicates that the Government is now proceeding beyond the minimum wage group and is increasing benefits on a graduated scale to those in the low income groups - groups just above the minimum wage. 
I think that evidence given to the Senate select committee which inquired into health insurance benefits brought out that there was a degree of either non-insurance or under insurance which varied between 10% and 15% in the community. Although the committee could not obtain evidence as to the economic position of those who were either not insured or were under insured I think there is no doubt in all of our minds that this group either had considerable problems : in maintaining adequate insurance or were not insured at all. Therefore, it is with satisfaction that 1 note that the Government has extended a free cover to those people not only in their own interests but of course in the interests of the finances of hospitals which incur very heavy debts because of the inability of a section of the community to pay their bills. 1 do regret one . thing. In the statement released by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  a great deal of reference is made to the Nimmo Committee and the recommendations of that Committee but that from a quick reading of the document I could find no reference to the Senate select committee. 
I am also delighted that the Government has dealt wilh the question of the management expenses of the funds which in many cases were far too high and also with the question of reserves. Before I conclude, I would like to say that I believe there has been some laxity in the Department of Health in not enforcing greater economies in the past in regard to management expenses. I believe that the Speech delivered by the Governor-General provides us with a great deal of food for thought and that its proposals will be in the interests of the people of Australia. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - I would remind the Senate that this is  Senator Cameron's  maiden speech. It is customary for honourable senators to hear a maiden speech without interjecting. 
1 preface my question, which I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, by referring to a statement made by  Senator Murphy  in the Senate last week that North Vietnam has not committed aggressions against South Vietnam, as North Vientanm  and South Vietnam are one country. I ask the Minister whether South Vietnam is recognised by about 60 nations as an independent state, and North Vietnam is similarly recognised by over 20 nations? Is South Vietnam a member of 11 United Nations agencies, the International Atomic Energy Commission and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade? Did the Soviet Union veto a proposal in 1951 and 1957 that South Vietnam be admitted to the United Nations, a proposal supported by all other members  of the Security Council? Finally, is it a fact that in 1957 the Soviet Union proposed that South Vietnam and North Vietnam- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Can the Minister advise as to the activities of the International Control Commission in the present Laotian situation and whether any report has been made by the Commission. 
Is the Minister aware whether a report has been made by a delegation of South East Ana Parliamentarians who visited Laos to study the situation. 
In view of the fact that the Bill receives the support of the Opposition there is not a great deal' to say other than to echo the words of  Senator Devitt  that it is a very imporant piece of legislation. The Bill will give effect to the decision of a diplomatic conference which was convened by the International Civil Aviation Organisation in Tokyo in August-September 1963. The Convention has been open to signature since 14th September 1963. So far 42 nations have signed the Convention and 22 nations have ratified it. The Convention came into force as between the ratifying nations on 4th December. It can be said that Australia is not far behind the 22 nations which have already ratified the Convention. 
As  Senator Devitt  pointed out, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  said in his second reading speech that since 1963 Australia has had legislation dealing with many aspects of crimes committed on board aircraft. He said that the Crimes (Aircraft) Act covers matters regarding the operations of aircraft in Australia except, as  Senator Byrne  reminded us, intrastate operations. I think all States except South Australia have legislation complementary to the Commonwealth legislation which would probably protect intrastate operations. The Minister pointed out that the Australian legislation already deals with many of the offences committed on board aircraft. But the Australian legislation applies only to Australian registered aircraft engaged on flights within Australia other than, as already pointed out, intrastate flights, although international aircraft are, I understand, covered on the first leg of overseas flights commencing in Australia and the last leg of overseas flights entering Australia. The Crimes (Aircraft) Act will not be affected by the Bill we are asked to support today, which will ratify the Tokyo Convention. The important thing is that some of the powers in the Tokyo Convention are far wider than the powers under the present Commonwealth legislation. The real significance of the Bill is that the wider powers under the Tokyo Convention will become effective as between the parties ratifying the Convention for foreign aircraft in Australia and Australian aircraft operating overseas, which is of particular importance to Qantas Airways Ltd. 
There are one or two important provisions in the legislation which I think we should take note of. The first is the question of the powers and responsibilities of an aircraft commander, which are very clearly defined and are far wider than the powers and responsibilities of an aircraft commander under the Australian legislation. The powers and duties of contracting states in relation to offenders on board aircraft are also defined. In view of the history of hijacking, I think this provision is important. We already have the case of the extradition problems in relation to an American aircraft which was hijacked and flown to Italy. The extradition problems will be also cleared up by the Convention. As I understand it, the extradition Acts of  1966  cover the situation in relation to Commonwealth countries as well as the countries with which we have extradition agreements, but the Acts do not go beyond that. I understand that the present legislation will cover those countries which have ratified the Convention. Therefore, in two or three important aspects the Bill probably deals more effectively with this very serious problem which has arisen in the world in recent times. 
I note that since the Tokyo Convention, and as a result of the seriousness of the problem, there have been several other conferences. Australia played an active part in the Washington conference of December  1969  which was summoned by the Government of the United States of America. Australia was also a co-sponsor of a United Nations resolution in  1969  which dealt with this problem of hijacking. Unfortunately aircraft are particularly vulnerable to hijacking. Hijacking places a tremendous strain and responsibility upon the crews of aircraft, particularly the commanders, who are responsible for the safety of aircraft. It is fortunate that there have not been some serious accidents on landing or during flight as a result of hijacking. One can imagine the tremendous strain on the commander of a sophisticated modern aircraft having to fly it with a pistol in his back. The fact that there have not been any serious accidents speaks volumes for the courage and coolness of the crews which have to endure this very traumatic experience. Figures I obtained indicate that between January  196S  and October  1969  there were  134  reported hijackings. Since then the incidence has not declined. Rather one would gather from reading reports that it may well be increasing. There also have been some  30  unsuccessful attempts at hijacking. 
One rather feels that the success of the efforts of hijackers has only encouraged others to try. One rather feels, with the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the international pilots federation, that this is becoming a matter of the greatest concern to operating air crew. One hopes that perhaps it is not beyond the ability of our scientists and engineers to find some way of answering this new threat. I have little doubt that this matter is being given a great deal of thought. When one reads of aircraft landing and being re-fuelled, often with  100-odd  passengers on board, and then taking off for a new destination one can only wonder at the problems that are involved in meeting this threat. One would hope that at some time in the near future some answer will be found which will protect aircraft from this modern and, I believe, very serious threat. 
The only other aspect I should like to mention is that it is a great financial strain to aircraft operators to have their aircraft hijacked and flown to another country. There is the problem of getting the aircraft released, particularly from Cuba and similar countries, and also concern for the passengers who on some occasions, such as in North Korea - 1 do not know the position at the present time - were held for some considerable time before being released. Concern for the innocent victims of these hijackings in countries which do not recognise international law makes the problem more serious. I notice that in the list of countries which have either signed or ratified the agreement the only Communist country so far which has taken note of it is Yugoslavia. This seems to me to be a problem because most of the aircraft which have been hijacked have been flown to Communist countries. If we are to overcome this problem it seems to me that the co-operation of all countries is necessary. 
Finally I can only say that this is another heartening example, in the difficult world in which we live, of international cooperation. One can only hope that it will be extended and that following the Tokyo Convention the further discussions which are now being held to try to tighten control over hijacking will be successful and that the same degree of international co-operation between countries eventually will overcome this problem. 
Can the Minister for Housing inform the Senate whether there is likely to be any delay in the granting of war service homes advances as a result of the increase in applications to which the Minister referred in the Senate last week? 
One of the advantages of an opposition is that it can be irresponsible and can indulge in one exaggeration after another. This is a case in point. 
 I will refer to it in a minute and the honourable senator might find himself also guilty of this. 

 - Senator McClelland was heard in silence but I do not mind interjections. In fact I welcome them. When the Opposition gets upset it obviously is being hurt. It does not like the truth. I have found that to be the case time and time again so I do not mind if there are interjections. The motion itself is a misrepresentation because it says: 
That the Senate at ils rising adjourn until tomorrow at 10 a.m. for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency. 
And the matter of urgency is: 
The Government's  reintroduction  of a waiting period for war service homes finance. 
If I interpret correctly the words used in the matter of urgency, they mean that there is delay in the provision of all war service homes finance. That is just not the truth. Therefore it is a misrepresentation. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has made it clear time and again that there is no delay in the provision of finance for those people who are constructing their own homes. Yet that is not recognised in this matter of urgency. So 1 repeat that it is a misrepresentation of the truth. 
If 1 read correctly what  Senator Cavanagh  said last night, he said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech gave an undertaking that if funds ran out more funds would be made available. I have here a copy of the Prime Ministers policy speech, and I will challenge  Senator Cavanagh  to produce- 
 I am speaking of the Prime Ministers policy speech and the statement made by  Senator Cavanagh  last night. I will challenge  Senator Cavanagh  to produce the statement that he quoted from the Prime Minister's policy speech. 
I am on technical grounds, am I? Now the honourable senator is crawling out of it. I suggest that members of the Opposition have a responsibility to be accurate when they are quoting statements made by the Prime Minister. Then we come to  Senator Keeffe.  We are used to irresponsible and reckless charges and allegations from him. Therefore it was no surprise last night when he started referring to scandals in the War Services Homes Division. 
I welcome  Senator Keeffe's  interjection. He was kind enough to say that the Minister might not know anything about it, but he went on to say: 
. there are people in high places in this Government who have complete knowledge of it. 
This is a smear, lt is a deliberate smear of some unnamed people. I suggest to  Senator Keeffe  that if he does not want to bc accused of cowardice or of making a cowardly and contemptible attack on unnamed people in high places he has a responsibility today to name the people in high places who have knowledge of this scandal, and not only to name them in this place but to have the moral courage to go outside this place and name them so that they will have an opportunity to defend themselves. 
When anybody mentions Communism members of the Opposition jump up in their places and say that it is a. smear. Yet we have the  President  of the Australian Labor Party engaging continually in this place in smears of unnamed people. The other day at an Aboriginal conference he made a statement, if the Press reported him correctly, that certain Government members were engaged in spying upon the Aboriginals. He has the opportunity, if he has the courage, to stand up and name those Government members. Now he is laughing. It is a contemptible allegation and it is the type of attack to which we are subject in this instance - allegations of scandal. 
What has happened? The Minister has been perfectly truthful. The .whole of the Opposition's case is based upon a question which was asked by  Senator McClelland,  which he read and which in turn was based on information he received. He asked whether war service homes finance had been frozen. I believe that the Minister interpreted the word 'frozen' correctly. The use of the word was probably unfortunate. 1 do not think  Senator McClelland  meant to convey that meaning, but it was the word he used. The Minister interpreted the question correctly when she said that war service homes finance has been frozen means that no money at all is available. That is not the case. The question was put on that basis; but in fairness to  Senator McClelland  let me point out that he has rather shifted his ground. He is now using other words. But the whole of this case is based upon that question to the Minister. 
The Minister, at the first opportunity, answered the question she was asked and answered it truthfullly, She also answered another question, which I think I may have asked her. She -then explained that the position was that there was a delay of some weeks after processing and that the delay was between 6 and 8 weeks. She explained that the normal period for processing was 4 weeks. 
1 am sorry; 4 months. The waiting period varies from 2 weeks to 4 weeks. 1 suggest that this is not the tremendous hardship or inconvenience that the Opposition is suggesting it is. If my information is correct, people who have to wait this period and want to take possession of their homes can normally do so by arrangement. Also, it is quite common, on an undertaking that war service homes finance will be available, for the people's own banks to provide bridging finance over this period. There is nothing unusual in this type of delay. 
I am aware that even at this time with some of the financial institutions which are financing home purchases there is a delay because of the great demands being made upon them. I know of people who were told last month that they would have to wait until June before they could obtain finance for their home, and they have had no problem in going to their bank, putting the position before it and obtaining bridging finance from it at normal rates of interest. I suggest that in a great number of cases no real inconvenience will be suffered and that the young people concerned will be able either to take possession of their homes by arrangement or to obtain bridging finance from the normal financial institutions. 
The records show that between 50% and 60% of war service homes applicants who have had to wait for a period in the past - I will come to that in a moment - obtained bridging finance from the normal financial institutions. So they were not greatly, if at all, inconvenienced. There is nothing unusual in this situation. Prior to 1966 there was a waiting period all the time for those who wished to purchase existing homes. Prior to 1961 there was a waiting period for all -types of finance, whether people wished to construct their own home or to purchase an existing home. So there is nothing new in this situation. Indeed, the situation has improved to the extent that for about 4 years there was no waiting period. The Minister is to be commended and not damned now because a temporary situation has arisen. 
What is the situation?  Senator McClelland  quoted a number of figures, such as that $70m was available in one financial year, $59m in another and so on. Whilst it is very easy to criticise the Government or the Department for not assessing the number of applicants correctly, the fact is that for a period of 5 years there was a gradual decline of 8% a year in applicants for war service homes finance. 
 Senator Cavanagh  denies that, does he? 
 We are not dealing with that. We are dealing with the situation referred to in the matter of urgency. That is a matter of Government policy, not a matter for me to decide or to give a decision on.  Senator Cavanagh  knows that. The situation is that it was estimated that in this financial year there would be 6,600 applicants; but an unusual demand has developed. Indeed, the figure is about 950 higher, namely 7,540. 
A great deal has been made of men returning from Vietnam; but, as I understand the position, the reasons for this unusual demand are not clearly known. Certainly some of the increased demand arises from troops returning from Vietnam; but that is not the only reason or necessarily the major reason. There has been a big increase in applicants who served in the 1939-45 War which ended about 25 years ago. With a history of an 8% reduction in applications over a period of 5 years, I think the Department was quite justified in believing that the demand would not increase. In fact, it did increase. It is very easy to sit in opposition and to be critical, with hindsight. It is very easy to do that when one does not have to make an estimate based upon past demand and the likely future demand. Therefore I do not believe that it is fair or reasonable to criticise the Department or the Government for not being able to judge accurately this increased demand, which has arisen not because of one reason, as we are led to believe, but because of a number of reasons, some of which are unknown. It may well be that in some areas the high price of land and the high price of houses have contributed towards an increase in the number of applications for this very favourable type of finance. 
The new Messiah has come in amongst us again. No-one could accurately predict that the past trend would suddenly be reversed. Honourable senators opposite have levelled some criticism about the time factor.  Senator McClelland  read from an answer given in another place yesterday by the Prime Minister. I thought I heard the honourable senator correctly. He will correct me if I am wrong. The honourable senator referred to the Prime Minister's statement that those who apply this month will have to wait until July. If we work out the time factor, it takes 4 months to process the applications. The process covers a great deal of things, including inspection, valuation, perusal of the titles and of the security documents and so forth. This 4-month period varies. Sometimes it is 6 weeks; sometimes it is 6 months. It depends on whether the titles are in order and on the various complications that can arise in these situations. The period varies, but the average time is about 4 months. If this be so, the Prime Ministers estimate would be correct in that there would be 4 months plus the extra few weeks which are involved in the waiting period. Therefore I do not see any conflict between what the Prime Minister said and what the Minister for Housing said. 
Yesterday the Prime Minister said that there would be several hundred applicants waiting. That would be quite normal. If there are over 7,000 applicants in a year, at any one period there would be some hundreds of applications awaiting processing. I cannot see any conflict between what the Prime Minister said and what the Minister said, much as honourable senators opposite would like to put a different interpretation on the statements. I think that the Opposition, in raising this matter, was not fair to the Minister. Certainly  Senator McClelland  was not fair in alleging that the Minister was trying to hoodwink the Australian people. I do not believe that any fair examination of what the Minister said could justify that statement. I suggest that from start to finish the Minister has been truthful and has put the matters clearly before the Senate. 
 Senator Cavanagh  said that the Minister has been evasive. I do not think the Minister should have been required to answer some of the questions asked. I would have regarded them as offensive had I been asked them. I do not think the Minister has been evasive. That is the honourable senator's interpretation. 
(Quorum formed) - 1 feel highly honoured,  Mr Deputy President. Senator Keeffe  has a unique ability to drive everybody from the chamber, not only from this side but also from his own side. I noticed that after he had been speaking for a few minutes only two honourable senators remained opposite. As soon as he finished his speech,  Senator O'Byrne  drew your attention,  Sir, to  the state of the House. I find that highly amusing. 
 I am. I picture a native in a Highlands village of the Territory, the Gazelle Peninsula or some other part of Papua listening to a wireless and trying to understand the remarks of  Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator Keeffe.  Probably he would find them rather incomprehensible, as I did, but I can imagine him turning to a friend and saying: 
Bol  tok humbug. Tok belong im  maski  sunning  nuting 
Translated into English that means: 'He is a humbug and his speech could mean anything'. 1 think that would be the interpretation of the people of New Guinea of what we have heard from the Opposition tonight. 
Perhaps  Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator Keeffe  are attempting to defend their Leader in another place following his incredible blunders and extreme conduct when he visited the Territory, apparently to learn something. We have heard references from honourable senators opposite to old colonialists. Today  Mr Whitlam  is the new colonialist who tells the people of the Territory what is good for them.  Senator O'Byrne  referred with great vigour and great heat to colonialists of former days. Today  Mr Whitlam  is the new colonialist who goes to the Territory to tell the people there what is good for them, or what the Labor Party believes is good for them. The old colonialist is dead and a new one has arisen. The new one is  Mr Whitlam.  I will have more to say about that. 
I turn to something of a more serious nature. Australia has a moral responsibility to the people of Papua and New Guinea to lead them to self government and independence in an atmosphere of economic freedom. That is the policy of the Australian Government and it is endorsed by the United Nations. Contrary to the misrepresentation of  Mr Whitlam  in recent times, the last resolution passed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in respect of Papua and New Guinea was in complete support of the Australian Government's policy. Again contrary to what  Mr Whitlam  has said, Australia voted in favour of the resolution. Clause 3 of the resolution states: 
The General Assembly . . . calls upon the administering power to take all necessary steps to transfer full powers in the executive and legislative branches of government to elected representatives of the people, in accordance with the freely expressed wishes of the peoples. 
That is the policy of the Australian Government, which has said that it will grant self government and independence to the people of Papua and New Guinea in accordance with their wishes.  Mr Whitlam  commented on the United Nations resolution. I do not intend to read all his comments, but if 1 am challenged to read them I will do so. They are a complete misrepresentation of the meaning of the United Nations resolution. 1 think honourable senators should take note of the reference by  Mr Whitlam,  who said: 
Australians who think that the United Nations need nos be taken seriously may be mort respectful of the United States. Anyone who doubts the seriousness of America's purpose on this mailer is fooling himself. 
In other words,  Mr Whitlam  was trying to give the impression that the United Slates Government is critical of the Australian Government's policy on Papua and New Guinea. 
 I am interested in that comment by  Senator Little.  Perhaps a new foreign policy with a pro-American slant is developing in the Australian Labor Party. 1 do not know whether it exists. Perhaps we could deal with it at another time. 1 have said that Australia voted in favour of the United Nations resolution, lt was in much milder terms than previous resolutions on the subject- passed by the United Nations, lt did not call for target dates for self government or independence. Perhaps a member of the Labor Party could tell us of any public statement by the United States Government indicating that it is in any way critical of Australia's policy or administration in Papua and New Guinea. The truth is that those in the United Stales have been consistent supporters of Australian policy and the Australian administration. If the honourable .senator can point to one statement from the United States - a country which he has delighted in abusing in this chamber time and again - which is critical of Australia and which supports the statement made by  Mr Whitlam,  we on this side of the chamber would be most interested to hear of it. This is one example of the misrepresentation by  Mr Whitlam  with regard to Australian policy in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
I repeat, because I think it bears repeating, that Australian policy has been that we will grant selfgovernment and independence to the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea when they freely express their will to have it. I challenge anybody on the other side of the chamber or on this side to say what is undemocratic or colonial about this policy. From where do the demands for self government and independence come? There are some demands for self government and independence.  Senator Magnus  Cormack, I think correctly, indicated that these demands came from what he regarded as a selfappointed elite. Certainly they are a semieducated elite which has developed in New Guinea. They are the people who believe that they are capable of governing their own people, whether their own people wish them to govern them or not. Before them is the most frightening example of recent history in Africa. We all know that in Africa there developed under the British colonial system not a small group of semieducated elite but a substantial administrative group. The British left behind in Nigeria and Ghana more than a basis for parliamentary government. 
The history of these countries is a frightening reminder to us of what can happen when a small group of people believe that they are all-powerful and, because of their education, they are in a position not only to govern but also to lord it over their people and to inflict on them not self government, not parliamentary government, but a dictatorship of the most corrupt and brutal kind. There we have a lesson which we ignore at our peril and which we ignore at the peril of the future of the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. This group to whom I refer in New Guinea has all the arrogance and self confidence of such a semi-educated elite. 
What is the opinion of the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, the ordinary people in the villages and in the Highlands?  Senator O'Byrne  spoke about the people of the Highlands - half the population of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. The people of the 'Highlands have made it crystal clear that they are opposed to self government and that they are opposed to independence because they are not ready for it. Having made this statement, I shall come back to it in a moment because if we are to consider the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and if we are to consider the readiness of the Territory we must consider the historical conditions that exist there. There is no sense of national unity among the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. I repeat: There is no sense of national unity. There is a very strong regionalism existing in the Territory. I speak as one who has spent some time in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, one who, during the war, served with the troops of New Guinea, one who for more than 2 years lived with them day and night. I think I learned something about them and have renewed my learning in visits to the Territory since. 
The plain facts are that we have in Papua and New Guinea a number of groups, each fearful and each suspicious. Indeed, in some cases they have a hatred of one another. The Papuans do not like the New Guineans. They fear government by a majority of New Guineans. Only the other day in an article 'The Island of Hatred'  Mr John  Lawrence, who was editor of the South Pacific Post', said: 
But it is the Papuan secession movement that brings a definite danger of a Nigeria-Biafran situation developing on Australia's front doorstep. 
Australia and the United Nations want to see the Territory and the Territory of New Guinea as one nation when independence comes. 
But they are facing an uphill struggle in a country where tribalism abounds and where there are an estimated 700 different languages. 
Regionalism seems more likely to come before nationalism and this is what makes the Papuan secession threat more serious. 
Despite the different tribes, most Papuans do not realise they are Papuans. 
This is the situation that is developing in Papua. I made a brief reference to the situation in the Highlands. In this area, because of the mountainous and difficult terrain, the people have, in relatively recent times only, been brought under European and Administration control. Therefore, in such matters as education and economic development they are relatively backward. But they are a most intelligent people. Because of their educational and economic backwardness they fear domination by the more sophisticated people along the coastal belt of New Guinea who have had so much longer  -  70, 80 or 90 years - experience under the influence of Europeans. This is the fear that they and their leaders have expressed to me in pidgin English, which  Senator O'Byrne  decries as some kind of colonial language. That is completely wrong. They have expressed their fear of domination by the people along the coast. That is the situation of the Papuans and the highlanders 
Then we have another group, the island people of. New Britain, Manus and Siassi 
They have a fear of being governed and dominated by the more numerous people of mainland New Guinea and they have no wish or desire to be dominated by them because there exists between them an ancient enmity which has gone on for hundreds of years. This is the third region. Now we have as a fourth group the people of Bougainville who are talking of secession. They do not want to be dominated by the more numerous people of the islands of New Britain whom they hate. They hate the Tolais. There is no use denying this as it is a fact of life: They hate them and they fear them and would not want to be governed by them. So there exist in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea today all the dangers of fragmentation. There is fear that upon self government being achieved the Territory will break into fragments and that this will bring another Congo and Biafran situation. This fear is real. To deny it, as  Mr Whitlam  and the Australian Labor Party are doing, is an act of complete ignorance of the situation and an act of complete irresponsibility towards the future of the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. There exists today no unifying force in the whole Territory of Papua and New Guinea, unless it be the army or the police. 
I can think of no more disruptive force than  Mr Whitlam.  The army and the police are possibly the only two unifying forces. One may have grave doubts about both of them at present, but they are the only two disciplined forces which exist in the Territory. May I say that they are both groups which have a privileged position to protect. I hope the day never comes when the Territory of Papua and New Guinea begins to break up into fragments, but if regionalism takes root it may well be that these two groups not only will step in to protect their own position but also, as the only unified and disciplined forces in the Territory, will assume control. 
I agree. I could not agree more. Do not misunderstand me; I am not advocating that such a thing should happen; I am saying that the danger exists of it happening. If self government and independence come too soon there is a danger of fragmentation. Honourable senators opposite may deny it and shake their heads, but they will be proved wrong. Here and now I say that honourable senators opposite will be proved wrong. There is a danger of what I fear happening. There would be a danger of military rule if the Opposition's policies were implemented. I decry such a thing, but if it does happen it will be because of the policies of the Australian Labor Party and not of the Government It will not be brought about because of the view of the majority of the people of New Guinea, who do not want independence at present. But such a policy is being advocated by  Mr Whitlam  who, in a recent visit to the Territory, announced a date for self government and a date for independence regardless of whether the people want it or are ready for it. 
The steps that the Government is taking to prevent it happening if it can possibly do so. I have doubts, but I would hope that the steps which are being taken by the Australian Government at the moment will lead the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea towards self government by way of increasing education opportunities, economic development and an economically viable community. It may be that the Territory will not be completely economically viable for 50 years ahead. It cannot be expected to be so. But it is the policy of the Government to lead towards this objective in the hope that that will be achieved. I stand here tonight and say that if it is not achieved I fear that what other honourable senators fear will come about. The only hope is that we will be able to resist the pressures from  Mr Whitlam,  the Labor Party and some of the Afro-Asian countries which have shown that they cannot govern themselves under a democratic system and have made a mess of self government. The genocide in the Congo, Biafra and Nigeria is a horrible lesson to us on what could happen. Therefore we can only hope that a policy of tolerance and the greatest good will possible will achieve the results we hope it will achieve. 
I condemn the policy of the Labor Party, which will not achieve the same objective but which will bring about the very thing we all fear. I say this with a greater sense of responsibility because I believe it to be true. Not only am I saying that it will happen but others who have knowledge of the Territory are in agreement with me. Regionalism is stronger than nationalism. I think it may be too late. Perhaps we should have encouraged regional government earlier or, if you like, a type of federalism. I am thinking aloud on this aspect. Maybe we should have encouraged this as a first step. This is only hindsight. Maybe we should make some attempt to encourage the people of the Highlands to set up some system of self government free from control from elsewhere. The people of the Highlands may be happy to do so. Perhaps in time a sense of unity will develop throughout the Territory, but it does not exist at present. This is a plain fact of life which I do not believe can be challenged.' 
The problems which confront the Territory of Papua and New Guinea are immense. The geographical problem makes communication difficult if not impossible. There is also the problem of  700  different dialects. The only language which could be a unifying language - and it was decried and condemned by  Senator O'Byrne  - is pidgin English, because the people have declared that they do not want English to be their unifying language. Pidgin English is not a colonial language which was forced upon the people. Admittedly it is based upon a language of trade which was used in the days of the Germans, but it has developed since then. It is a language of its own. It has its own grammar. Today pidgin English has developed into a New Guinean language and the people have shown a preference for using it. 
I am not saying that I accept its use, but the New Guineans accept it. Honourable senators are probably aware that India has a problem in regard to Hindi, which is the national language. Some people in India will miss out on the benefit of a university education because the courses are conducted in English, which is almost the universal language. I am not saying that pidgin is the right language. All I am saying is that there is a great feeling in New Guinea that pidgin is at this stage of its development a sort of unifying language and a language of communication. I would hope to see - and I am quite sure other honourable senators would also hope to see - English become the language of communication because of the very reasons  1  have mentioned. It is not happening at the moment. We will have to go through the intermediary stage to develop it, but there is no use decrying and condemning pidgin English, because it has a purpose in New Guinea today. It is the language of communication. We should not run before we can walk. Perhaps we should accept this and hope that English will be developed. As a matter of fact, I was quite impressed to learn that English is used in some of the primary schools. But its use is being developed very slowly. I think it will be a long time before sufficient Papuans and New Guineans can learn to speak English. After all, Motu is the language in Papua and not pidgin English. So we have a division here. Having said this and having pointed out what I believe to be the position in the Territory, I would like to say that I support the policies that were outlined by the Minister, but I believe that if the Ministerial Members of the House of Assembly are to be given more responsibility they should be given it gradually. I believe that as the Papuan Public Service develops and the indigenous people begin to fill the positions in it- 
 As long as I do not sound like the black boss, who brutally beat his own people, as the history of Africa shows. Whatever the white boss may have done he was never as brutal or savage to his own people as some of the black bosses in Africa were to their own people, nor has there ever been so corrupt a white boss as was Nkrumah, the black boss in Ghana. Do not decry the people who went to Papua and New Guinea with their own capital and took a risk. Do not decry the administrators who went there and underwent great hardship. I can think of nothing more contemptible than to attack the administrators of Papua and New Guinea who have led these people in the hope that they will achieve better things. 1 can think of nothing more contemptible than the attacks which were made upon the administrators of Papua and New Guinea by  Mr Whitlam. Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Poyser  rose in this place and asked questions about the resignation rate in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Their own leader went there and attacked these people in the most vicious terms and threw doubt upon their motives. If the policy he advocated is brought into force there will be little future for these people in 5 or 6 years' time. He is only encouraging the very things honourable senators oppoosite are attempting to criticise. These are the facts. Honourable senators opposite might not like them but they are the facts. 
I want to say a few more words about  Mr Whitlam's  ill-conceived statement. He went to the Gazelle Peninsula. This fact has been much publicised. He had the advice of the shadow Minister for Externa] Territories,  Mr Beazley,  a man who is often held up as having a great knowledge of this Territory.  Mr Whitlam  spoke to the Mataungans. He used words that have not been denied. He praised their religious and patriotic fervour. Here we have a group of people who have, rightly or wrongly - wrongly I believe - been encouraged in lawlessness and disorder.  Mr Whitlam  stood up and said to the people that he was the next Prime Minister of Australia. That was optimism of course, and conceit. But he praised the Mataungans' religious and patriotic fervour. This of course caused a great deal of criticism.  Mr Beazley  came back and attempted to explain this away. He appeared on television in Perth and said that at this meeting the audience sang the national anthem and hymns which so impressed  Mr Beazley  that he suggested to  Mr Whitlam  that he should praise them for their religious and patriotic fervour. This may be correct, but 1 can think of nothing in greater condemnation than the Leader of the Opposition with all his so-called authority on New Guinea speaking in a sophisticated language to a group of people not understanding the sophisticated language, to be interpreted- 
I accept the honourable senator's point. I am sorry. I quite appreciate the point made by  Senator Murphy.  I am not referring to him. I am referring to the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam.  I will take care. I quite appreciate that  Senator Murphy  wants to be dissociated from  Mr Whitlam  in this matter. 
 I agree. 
I withdraw it. 1 come back to the point I want to make. The Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam,  repeated what he was advised to say by the Labor Party authority.  Mr Whitlam  spoke in a sophisticated language to an unsophisticated audience.  His  words were translated into an unsophisticated language by one of the people who had been engaged in this lawlessness. How would one expect them to interpret what was said except in terms of praise for their actions? I think this is typical of the irresponsibility and ignorance displayed by the Australian Labor Party, and by  Mr Whitlam  and his authority on New Guinea,  Mr Beazley,  during their visit to the Tertory. This visit raised much ire and criticism from the Territory leaders, including members of the Pangu Party. 

 Senator Keeffe held up members of the Pangu Party as examples. They were strong in their criticism of the statements made by  Mr Whitlam  during his visit. If I am forced to I will quote what they said.  Mr Maori  Kiki was one who was strong in his criticism of  Mr Whitlam.  As my colleague  Senator Young  said,  Mr Whitlam  was told to go home by one of the leaders. What an indictment of the leader of the Party which would provide the alternative government and of a man who went to the Territory and spoke in the royal 'we' sort of language, saying '1 am the next Prime Minister.'  Mr Whitlam  made so many statements and he made such a mess of his visit that he was told by the leaders of the Territory that he should go home. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is not accepted by the leaders of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. One of the criticisms of  Mr Whitlam  was that he spoke only to those who could speak English. This group is the self-appointed elite. He did nor speak to the people of the Highlands. They strongly criticised  Mr Whitlam  for not speakingto them.  Mr Whitlam  spoke to a select few who would tell him what he wanted to hear. It is upon their remarks that he based these extraordinary statements which he made in his advocacy of the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I believe this has done great damage to the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.  Mr Whitlam's  visit to the Territory was a most disruptive influence at a time when every care should have been taken that no disruption was caused to the delicate situation which existed in the Gazelle Peninsula and elsewhere. Feelings of regionalism existed amongst the people of the Highlands. There were secessional movements in Papua and secessional movements in Bougainville. It was a time for carefully considered statements, not a time for highly imaginative and highly stupid statements which were made by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam.  If we find that our worst fears are confirmed at least a great deal of the responsibility will rest upon those who work in the Territory and advocate the policies which  Mr Whitlam  advocated on his recent visit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Does Imperial Chemical Industries Ltd no longer provide fertilisers in the State of Queensland and the northern rivers area of New South Wales; if so, is this done by arrangement between Imperial Chemical Industries Ltd and Austral Pacific 
Is it a fact that since Imperial Chemical Industries Ltd ceased trading in these areas the price of urea to farmers has risen from $60 to $88 per ton. 
Is Austral Pacific exporting surplus production of fertilisers; if so, at what price. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to a published statement by the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Senator Keeffe,  that the Australian Government and its agents were intent on inciting violence during the Moratorium Day demonstrations. Will the Government give an assurance that Government agents were not involved in inciting demonstrators to smash windows in St Kilda Road, Melbourne, following the May Day rally addressed by  Dr Cairns? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows the question asked a few moments ago by  Senator Murphy.  Is it a fact that on 13th May 1959 the Lao Dong Central Committee of the Communist Party of North Vietnam declared that the time had come to struggle heroically and perseveringly to smash the South Vietnamese Government? Is this statement not in truth, as has been said, a declaration of war by one country against another? 
I ask the Minister for Works whether a tender has been let for the upgrading of the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Learmonth, Western Australia? If so, when is it expected that the work will be completed? 
I am brought into this debate by the extraordinary statements which have been made by  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Georges  to the effect that they find greater respectability in the Vietcong and, presumably, North Vietnamese flags than in the flag of the United States of America. Presumably they are proud to march in a demonstration in which these flags are carried. 1 think that we should calmly but quickly examine what these flags stand for. For my authority I take statements which have been made by the leaders of North Vietnam and the National Liberation Front. Before doing so I wish to make only 2 comments regarding the extraordinary speech we have just heard. 

 Senator Georges attacked the Australian Government and, by inference, the Government of the United Slates of America for what he regards as an extension of the war into Cambodia.  Senator Georges  spoke with great heat about double standards. I think it is always unwise for members of the Opposition to talk about moral standards because it is an established fact which has not been denied that for years North Vietnamese and Vietcong troops have illegally and immorally occupied large areas of Cambodia. They have no legal or moral right to be there. If honourable senators opposite are going to talk about moral standards and double standards then I think I should point out,  Mr President,  that 1 have never heard one word of criticism or one attack in this Senate by any member of the Australian Labor Party on North Vietnam for its acts of aggression against Cambodia. However, when the United States launches attack after attack on the sanctuaries - on main supply routes and supply bases - the action becomes one of aggression. I do not think that honourable senators opposite should talk about moral standards. 

 Senator Georges also referred to the Australian Government's support of the enemies of democracy. Let us have a look at the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong, whom he said he supports, to see what their democracies are like. We hear a lot about the supporters of peace. A short while ago as a little exercise I took out some of the statements emanating from the National Liberation Front and North Vietnam. Let us see what they think about peace. In its political programme dated October 1967 the NLF stales as its objective: 
The M  I-"  undertake^ lo  dereion the  Liberation Armed Forces with the aim of promoting the  people's war, combining guerilla with regular warfare, wiping out as many live enemy forces, as possible, crushing the enemy's will for aggression, and winning the final victory. 
This is a nice, peaceful statement! It emanates from the National Liberation Front.  Senator Cavanagh  is proud to march behind its flag. I want to refer to a gentleman named Truong Chinh, who is a very nice fellow. He is one of the leaders of North Vietnam. He was one of the people responsible for the infamous purge of 1954-56, which I will mention in a moment. In an address to Communist cadres in September 1968 Truong Chinh said: lt is absolutely necessary for the people's  democratic  dictatorship- 
Nol democracy but dictatorship - to use violence against counter revolutionaries and exploiters who refuse to submit to reform.  Therefore we  must pay continuous attention  to  consolidating the repressive apparatus  of the people's  democratic slate, the people's army,  the  people's control institute, the people's tribunal and  so  forth. 

 Senator Georges and  Senator Cavanagh  support this nice, democratic gentleman. This is democracy at work, lt means thaI all political groups which do not submit lo Communist dictatorship will be ruthlessly rooted out. The same gentleman, Truong Chinh, in an address to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the birth of Karl Marx, said: 
All the  experiences drawn from  the  Vietnamese revolution have demonstrated  the  correctness  of the  Marxist-Leninist theory of violent revolution and have rejected  all  illusions about peaceful transition- 
I emphasise the words 'peaceful transition' - and  all  reformist and conciliatory tendencies, legalism  and so  forth. 
This statement was made by one of the leaders of North Vietnam whom  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Georges  arc proud to march behind. We have heard a great deal about- 
If I said that I have made a mistake and 1 withdraw it. 1 meant lo say the flag of North Vietnam. I am sorry if I have offended  Senator Cavanagh.  I apologise to him. I shall continue with my remarks. 1 shall not speak at great length. 
However,  I  think we should have a look at the actions of the Vietcong in South Vietnam since  1956.  There is a good reason why I have taken it from  1956.  From  1954  to  1956  the North Vietnamese leaders, led by Truong Chinh and Ho Chi Minh, were engaged in the pleasant Communist pastime of liquidating all political opponents. At that time - under the guise of land reforms-some  100,000  North Vietnamese were murdered and the families of the victims were left to starve. The principle adopted was that it is better to execute  10  innocent people than to allow  1  enemy to escape. Many more were tortured.  I  repeat that the children of those who were regarded as enemies of the state were left to starve. So much horror was aroused by this purge that General Giap, the Minister for Defence, admitted in October  1956  that the terror had become too widespread. He did not apologise for the terror; he said that it had become too widespread. He admitted that too many innocent people were executed, that torture had become an every day occurrence and that the innocent children of parents wrongly classified as land lords had starved to death. We are now told that some people are happy to march behind the flag of this regime. 
I  do not want to say very much more. However the North Vietnamese villagers will recall how they were compelled to denounce and torture one another, to sever all family ties and to supress all human feeling. This is a deliberate policy which is designed to pulverise the nerves of all people who resist Communism in North Vietnam. The same Truong Chinh said: 
The aim of the present revolution is that the entire people should thoroughly absorb the Socialist ideology, that this should abandon their previous outlooks on life and on the world and replace it with the Marxist viewpoint. 
We are told today that some people are proud to march behind the flag of this regime and that its flag and the flag of the Vietcong receive. more respect in the world than the flag of the United States of America. 
I conclude by reminding the Senate that in  1960-61,  long before the United States was involved,  6,000  South Vietnamese village leaders, teachers, medical personnel, people who exercised some authority, were murdered. Six thousand were abducted. In the years  1956  to  1967  at least  27,600  South Vietnamese village leaders, teachers, and so on were murdered or kidnapped by the Vietcong. The same Vietcong went to extraordinary lengths to emphasise that the killings were calculated acts of terror. They left on the bodies notes warning others what to expect if they refused to co-operate. Briefly, this is the record from Communist sources as to their aims and objectives.  I  leave it to the Senate and people outside to judge whose flag has more respect in the world. 
I rise to support the Bill before the Senate and, naturally, to oppose the amendment proposed by  Senator McClelland.  The honourable senator used some rather extravagant language in condemning the health scheme. I noted a couple of the words he used. He referred to the 'wrangle' which has been taking place between the Government and some sections of the medical profession, and he also used the word 'scandal'. Well, he is entitled to use those words because, after all, he is putting forward a different philosophy from that from which we on this side are prepared to accept. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs I sat with my friend  Senator McClelland  for many days and hours over a period of several months and I think we understand and respect one another's opinions although we differ on the philosophical approach. 
It is very easy for  Senator McClelland  to proclaim the great benefits of the scheme propounded by the Australian Labor Party. But it has never been put to a test. Indeed one would suggest that the discussions which have taken place between the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and the doctors - probably at times heated - would have been even more heated if the Labor Party's scheme had been implemented because whatever scheme there is. whether it is the present voluntary scheme or a compulsory scheme as proposed by the Labor Party, some agreement has to be reached between the Government and the medical practitioners unless there is to be a nationalisation of medicine as in the United Kingdom. I do not think that it is useful to make comparisons with what has happened in the United Kingdom and what would happen under the scheme proposed by the Australian Labor Party because there are essential differences. Although we cannot draw too many conclusions from the British scheme I believe that there are lessons to be learned from it. Some of the lessons are that it becomes tremendously extravagant and that people who receive something for nothing abuse the services which are provided. 
-I think that is a very sound philosophy. One can talk rather glibly about a free health scheme but it. is not free. Someone has to pay for it. Either it is paid for by the individual under a voluntary scheme or it is paid for by the taxpayer under a compulsory scheme, but it is paid for just the same. It is a false approach to lead people to believe that under any scheme you get something for nothing. At least under a voluntary scheme there is some control because a person has to meet some of the cost involved. Under a scheme such as is proposed by the Labor Party where a person has to meet none of the cost there is always the great danger - this has happened in the United Kingdom - of over-servicing. 
It is very easy to claim that the scheme which the Labor Party put forwardin its amendment, which it suggests should be adopted, will meet all the needs of the Australian people at low cost. During the last election campaign I saw the figures which were produced by the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam  - 

 Senator Murphy is not here so I am careful to refer to the Leader of the Opposition in another place - and they were challenged immediately by the Department of Health as being incorrect. I will not argue who was right but I believe the fact that the figures were challenged shows the importance of costing these schemes. When referring to the Labor Party's scheme we must be careful about that to which we are referring. Medical and hospital services are different. If you include all the ancillary benefits which some people have suggested at some stage should be included you have a different problem again. So there will be a different costing. I do not think there is anything specific that we can really argue about as to the cost of the respective schemes because not enough is known of the costing of the Labor Party's scheme. Certainly there is a very wide divergence between the costing by the Labor Party and the costing by the Minister for Health. 
As  Senator McClelland  mentioned, in recent times 2 committees have examined the health scheme. I think it is only natural that any scheme introduced a number of years ago will start to show faults and weaknesses because of developments in medical science and in other fields. The 2 committees which examined the scheme highlight the advantages of regular examination of these schemes instead of waiting for 16 years, or whatever the period may be, to try to ferret out the weaknesses and faults that have developed in them purely as a result of the effluxion of time, changed economic circumstances and advances in medical science. It is also true that both committees found rather serious weaknesses in the present scheme.  Senator McClelland  has dealt with some of those and I do not attempt to deny them. They were there and this Bill is an attempt - I think a very good attempt - to remedy many of the weaknesses which have developed. 
One of the problems to which  Senator McClelland  referred - this was reported on by both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select Committee - was the very high and unnecessary management expenses being incurred by some of the funds. I do not think that anybody can justify the high administrative expenses which some of the funds seem to regard as necessary expenditure. I believe that this is one of the greatest weaknesses in the present scheme. 
The Commonwealth Department of Health has certain powers over health and medical benefit funds, but I think it is fair to comment that it appears to be reluctant to use these powers. The Department of Health has relied upon persuasion to influence those funds whose expenses are far too high to reduce them, but I do not think that this approach has been successful. I think the funds have gambled on the fact that the Department of Health has not been prepared to use the ultimate powers it has. Of course, there are good reasons for not doing so. It could result in disenfranchisement of a fund, which would be detrimental to its contributors. 
The Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs, of which I was a member, recommended a considerable tightening of the National Health Act to give the Department far greater control over funds by way of imposing far greater penalties. I am happy to say that provision has been made in the Bill which is before the Senate to increase the penalties. The threat of suspension has been clearly written into the Bill and it provides that action can be taken against officers of funds who do not obey the instructions of the Department of Health in regard to taking action when management expenses become too high. I believe that it is very necessary for the Department of Health to exercise far greater control over the management expenses of many funds. I think it is worth looking at the report of the Nimmo Committee in this regard. The report states at page 45 in paragraph 1 1 .2: 
In  the financial year 1967-68 the lowest expense rate for hospital funds was 6.2% of contribution income and the highest was 20.24%. 
There is a tremendous difference between 6.2% and 20.24%. The report continues: 
Most  hospitals funds' expenses  were  within the range of 11% to 13% of contribution income.  Dealing with medical funds, paragraph 11.3 of the report states: 
For medical funds the lowest expense rate for 1967-68 was 10.86% of contribution income. Most medical funds' expenses were within the range of 14% to 16% of contribution income. The highest expense rate was 21.29%. 
The Nimmo Committee went on to point out in its report that there is always some difficulty in judging the exact differences in management expenses because of the different systems of accounting which arc used. Nevertheless, the Nimmo Committee found a tremendous difference in the management expenses of some funds. The Senate Select Committee found exactly the same thing. It was very critical of the high administrative expenses of some of the funds because they are to the detriment of contributors. This was found to occur principally in the States of New South Wales and Victoria. I am happy to say as a Western Australian that the Hospital Benefit Fund of Western Australia has by far the lowest management expenses in Australia and it would appear to be the most efficiently controlled fund. 
One of the reasons for the high administrative expenses - I think  Senator McClelland  mentioned this fact and the evidence points very strongly to it - is abuse of the competition which has developed between funds in New South Wales and parts of Victoria. Indeed, evidence which was given to the Senate Select Committee indicates that whenever one of the major funds in New South Wales has established a branch office in a country town in that State the other major fund has promptly followed suit and they have followed another around New South Wales like Brown's cows. Plenty of evidence was also given to indicate that some funds are engaging in wasteful advertising. I think the members of the Senate Select Committee were all very critical of this type of wasteful and unnecessary expenditure. I am finding myself using the same language as  Senator McClelland  used, but I think that a great deal of criticism should be levelled at some of the funds for engaging in this type of expenditure. This is a weakness in the present scheme. I hope that the Department of Health will not hesitate to use its powers to control the expenditure of funds, including, as the last resort, its ultimate power of suspension. However, it should always have regard to the interests of the contributors. This is a recognisable weakness. 

 Senator McClelland criticised the number of funds which are in existence. I think it is fair to comment that the Senate Select Committee examined this matter very closely and formed the opinion that the existing funds should be allowed to continue because a good deal of healthy competition - I use the words 'healthy competition' advisedly - between funds with contributors having a choice is a good thing overall, providing expenditure is always strictly controlled. Indeed, many of the smaller closed funds - the industrial funds and so on - perform a most valuable function. Their benefits are very much higher than those of the large open funds. Some of the open funds objected to the existence of the closed funds because they felt that the closed funds were able to pick and choose their contributors. I think that the Senate Select Committee was of the opinion that overall this objection was unfounded. The Committee was of the opinion that the number of closed funds could be increased. It was of the opinion that it would not be a bad thing if many of the industrial corporations established these funds for the benefit of their workers. Indeed, it found that many employers carried on a coverage when an employee ceased working in the industry. Therefore, I do not accept the view and the majority report of the Senate Committee did not accept the view that there were too many funds. Perhaps the Committee would have been prepared to place a limit on the number of open funds, but it would not place a limit on the development of closed funds. 
Another matter on which I find myself in agreement with  Senator McClelland  - indeed, both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select Committee found themselves in agreement with him - is in regard to the amount of reserves held by funds. On every piece of evidence the reserves are far too high. Both committees recommended that the reserves should be reduced, which would be to the advantage of contributors. I hope that this will be done because there is no doubt that the amounts held in reserve have reached the stage where they are unnecessarily high. Therefore, it would appear that there are grounds for criticism of the health scheme at present, particularly in relation to the operation of health and medical benefit funds. 
Another matter of concern is the level of under-insurance or non-insurance. Both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select Committee had great difficulty in finding an answer to this problem.  Senator McClelland  was critical of the inequitability of a fund which allowed the wealthy not to insure and to gain tax concessions for medical costs. Here again I think there is a difference of philosophical approach. We on our side believe that  a  person has  a  right, if he wishes to take the risk, not to insure. That is his decision. The problem was with those who could not afford to insure or who could not afford to have an adequate insurance cover. 
This real problem has been met to  a  considerable extent by the Government's decision to insure these people. I am not prepared to argue whether this is Labor Party policy or not. Perhaps some aspects of Labor Party policy contain some good. But our scheme will cover these people who are an element in voluntary health insurance which poses  a  problem which should not exist any longer. These people also pose a problem for the great public hospitals in Australia because the indebtedness of the hospitals is due to people who cannot afford to meet their hospital expenses. Therefore, indirectly, the new scheme should have a beneficial effect on hospital finances throughout Australia. 
I deal very quickly now with some of the problems which have arisen in relation to the proposed scheme. I refer to the establishing of a common fee. I believe this same problem would have occurred had the scheme been the Australian Labor Party's scheme or the Government's scheme. No Government can continue to subsidise doctors who have a right to set their own fees at any level which they wish to choose. Had it been the Australian Labor Party's scheme or the proposed scheme, this problem in relation to common fees would have arisen. It would appear overall that the medical profession and the Government have reached an amicable agreement. The agreement is to be reviewed. Any basic weakness in the discussions between the Commonwealth Government and the medical profession on this matter would have occurred had Labor policy been adopted. I do not think the finger can be pointed at the Government and I do not think it can be said that the weaknesses of the scheme brought about an unseemly wrangle. 
No doubt members of the medical profession are individuals, as are farmers, who cannot agree among one another on anything. That is both  a  weakness and  a  strength. Probably it is  a  weakness in the medical profession and  a  strength among farmers. I do not know. I think both groups have that in common. There has been a great deal of dispute between sections of the medical profession over the differential rates. I think all honourable senators have been bombarded by submissions from general practitioners and others. 
I think  Senator Prowse  has raised an interesting point which perhaps should not be developed in this debate but which could be discussed at some other time - the possibility of the medical profession turning to farmers and the possibility of farmers turning to doctors. I think that if that situation arose the same problem would occur because farmers would not agree as doctors and doctors would not agree as farmers.  1  think we would still have the same problems.  1  recognise that, among a section of general practitioners, there is a fear that the differential rates proposed by the Government would cause them many problems. I am also aware that only a section of the general practitioners are expressing this fear. Many others - if the information I have is correct, the majority - are prepared to accept the scheme and see how it works. The Minister has promised at the end of the year, I think, a review to see whether the general practitioner is being harmed. 
A system of referrals is to be introduced, I think by regulation. That system will be similar to the one that exists today. I think that under the proposed scheme a system very similar to the one that exists today will occur. Only on a referral to a specialist will the full rebate be obtained. However, I recognise that there is some uneasiness among general practitioners - an uneasiness which I do not share at this stage. I suppose it is always a good thing to bark or to howl before one is hit. I do not believe that because some are barking before they are hit the Government should be influenced. The objective of the Government is to give the maximum cover to those who need it. I think that is one objective that all honourable senators would support. Whilst recognising a fear among general practitioners, I do not believe this fear will be proved to be justified. This will be particularly so if the State governments accept - and I think one State has accepted now - a register of specialists. It appears that at the moment - and we have evidence to this effect - some doctors practice as general practitioners in the morning and as specialists in the afternoon. 
I think it is generally agreed - certainly by the Australian Medical Association - that only those with the necessary qualifications should practice as specialists. If a register of specialists is set up in each State, one rather thinks that some of the problems feared by the general practitioners will not arise. I do not think I want to say much more about these fears, but before I leave the subject I think it is worthwhile to study what the Minister said with regard to this problem of general practitioners as against specialists. A joint Press statement issued by the Commonwealth Minister for Health and the  President  of the Australian Medical Association said: 
At the meeting the AMA representatives reaffirmed. . . . 
This was the dispute within the medical profession - 
. that it was current AMA policy that there should be differential medical benefit rebates for services by specialists but that these differential rebates should apply only when a patient was referred by a doctor to a specialist practising within his speciality. 
That is what I have said. The joint Press release also said: 
The Government is convinced that these arrangements, which have the support of the Australian Medical Association - the profession's official negotiating body - and which were recommended by the Nimmo Committee, are necessary in view of the medical profession's own long-established policies and fee-charging practices, lt is considered that the provision of differential benefits is essential for the security of contributors against the actual costs of medical treatment. 
Here I think we are placing above all the security of the contributor. Surely this must be the aim of any legislation or scheme. There is a measure of agreement between the Government and the AMA. Whether the AMA is speaking for all the medical profession is open to question, but it is the official negotiating body. There is a measure of agreement between the Government and the AMA on differential rates which agreement is opposed by some sections of the profession. I think we have to wait and see whether the general practitioner, whom we all accept is the very basis of any hospital or medical scheme, is not disadvantaged by these differential rates. If he is, it will be necessary to take action to protect him. 
I think 1 have spoken long enough to indicate my support for the Bill. 1 express one regret. I think the Government might have taken into greater consideration the report  of  the Senate Select Committee which differed in some major respects from the report of the Nimmo Committee. The final decision rests with the Government. It may well be that the Government took the findings of this Senate Select Committee into consideration but no acknowledgment of this has been made by the Government. I think it is unfortunate that a committee of the Parliament should be ignored. I support the Bill before the Senate and I oppose the amendment. 

 Senator McMANUS (Victoria) 14.15]- The National Health Bill 1970 has now reached the Senate, but not without blood, sweat and tears. The Australian Labor Party has moved the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill: but the Senate is of the opinion that, while the Bill represents some improvement, a National Health Insurance Commission financed from graduated contributions would pay for medical and hospital services for all more equitably and economically. 
That amendment constitutes a quite innocuous expression of opinion from the principles of which my Party does not dissent. But the Australian Democratic Labor Party feels that the amendment is not adequate to deal with the present situation. We all know from the extraordinary amount of lobbying which has gone on within these precincts that at the present time grave differences of opinion exist between sections of the medical profession. My Party feels that it is in the interests of our country that those differences of opinion should, if possible, be resolved by further negotiation. In order to allow time for such negotiation and discussion the Democratic Labor Party moves the following further amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'thai', insert - 
In view of the fact that: 
it is desirable in dic national interest thai the National Health Bill find maximum possible acceptance from all interested parties; 
negotiations within the Australian Medical Association between various groups in that body have noi yet succeeded in reaching an agreement; and 
for the purpose of endeavouring to reach such an agreement a meeting of the Association has been called for 2nd and 3rd June, at which the Federal Assembly of the Association will make a final endeavour to arrive at a formula acceptable to all branches of the medical profession and which will not be contrary to the interests of those who will benefit from the Bill, further consideration of the Bill bc postponed until the outcome of this meeting is made known to the Government'. 1 have in my hand a copy of the agenda for the ninth federal assembly of the Australian Medical Association which is to be held in New South Wales from 1st June to 3rd June. The agenda contains a number of propositions which have been put forward with a view to determining a basis for agreement between those sections of the profession which, at the moment, are at odds. Obviously any scheme such as this depends upon its willing acceptance by members of the medical profession and, if we may hope for it, a united approach. It seems to me highly desirable that the Government should await the decisions of this important assembly before proceeding further with the Bill. 
I wish to make some general observations in regard to the Bill. 1 said earlier that my Party would not dissent from the proposition stated in the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party which calls for a National Health Insurance Commission financed from graduated contributions because for a long time the Democratic Labor Party's policy has been for a comprehensive national insurance policy on a contributory basis to cover sickness, accident, unemployment, death of a breadwinner, and old age. This Bill affects, of course, one of those matters, that of sickness. Until the time when the Democratic Labor Party's proposition can be accepted we of that Party accept the present situation in which hospital and medical costs are covered by private, voluntary insurance schemes, with Commonwealth contributions for hospital treatment. We are glad that the Government has taken action to place the position of these funds upon a better basis. We realise that over the years the system has suffered from very serious weaknesses and omissions. For a long time hospital and medical charges have been rising at about 3 times the rise of average male earnings. The schemes do not cover dental expenses and there has been grave criticism of the amount of contributions because, in some cases, from 13% to 15% noes in administration costs. 
A feeling has existed that Australia ought to be more generous if it seeks to deserve the title of a socially progressive country. 1 took out some figures some years ago which showed that expenditure on health services as a proportion of national income was 7.5% in the United States, in Israel 7.4%, Canada 7.2%. Chile 6.8%, Sweden 6.2%, Australia 5.8%, and the United Kingdom 4.9%. In my Party's view Australia could have been more generous in regard to these services. But there was another factor which occasioned us grave concern. It appeared that the groups in the community which most needed assistance in these matters were frequently not in a position to take advantage of them because of the cost of insuring for benefits. A survey which I and others studied in my own State of Victoria a couple of years ago showed that of people earning over $4,160, 87% were covered by hospital benefits; of people whose incomes were between $2,028 and $4,160, 75% were covered; but of those who were earning less than $2,028 only 54% were able to take advantage by contributing to the hospital benefits scheme. Over all, 69% of wage earners were contributing, but I repeat that it is most disturbing that those in the lowest income groups were least able to take advantage of these benefits. We have all noticed the considerable increase in the cost of hospital treatment over the years and, allied with the other factors to which I have referred, all this has made it extremely necessary for the Commonwealth Government to take action. 
My Party is glad that the Commonwealth has taken action and we look forward to the day when the Government will go further and produce an even more comprehensive scheme for the social insurance of its citizens. I must apologise that copies of my amendment have not been available but they are available now and will be distributed. The Bill, therefore, under my amendment will proceed to the second reading. The amendment proposes a halt to allow the Government to learn the result of the efforts of the Australian Medical Association assembly to arrive at a basis satisfactory to all. That basis will be known to the Government within the next couple df weeks. I believe that there is every reason for the delay. I have heard suggestions that this Bill must operate from 1st June. I do not know the reason for the urgency when there has not been any urgency in dealing with this situation over the years. 
1 oppose the amendment while having some sympathy with the point of view expressed. Both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs had evidence from both optometrists and ophthalmologists. There is between them a good deal of disputation as there obviously is between the Australian Medical Association and the ophthalmologists. 
The AMA has not been prepared to support their case, lt is of no use  Senator Turnbull  interjecting now. He was a member of the Senate Select Committee and had the opportunity to submit a minority report if he supported the case of the ophthalmologists, but he did not do so. This is not a simple matter. The optometrists claim the right to prescribe spectacles and for their patients to receive a benefit. The ophthalmologists are opposed to that for various reasons, lt is obvious that people who go to an optometrist would be. in all fairness, just as entitled to the benefit as would those who go to an ophthalmologist. If that were not so we would reach the situation where everyone who needed spectacles to be prescribed would be referred by the optometrist to the ophthalmologist to obtain the benefit. This would create chaos. We should be very careful about this until this whole very complex question is resolved. 
As  Senator McClelland  has told us, the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has received further submissions from the ophthalmologists and is now considering them. He has to weigh their submissions with all the other factors involved in this matter.  Senator McManus  has heard only one side of the story, and I question whether this Committee should at this time make a decision on a matter as complex as this is without hearing the full case. I point out also that the Nimmo Committee while acknowledging the unsatisfactory circumstances which exist, and which we all acknowledge, was not prepared to suggest any other means of achieving the result sought. The Senate Select Committee found itself in the same position as did the Nimmo Committee. In view of these facts I oppose the amendment and urge the Committee not to be governed by emotional issues but rather to seek a solution to a complex problem which will give satisfaction and justice to all concerned. I do not believe that we will achieve that by rushing in and supporting the amendment. 
1 rise to oppose this amendment. We all recognise, as the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs did, that there must be a review of fees from time to time but it seems to me to be a very foolish proposal to suggest that fees should be reviewed at some set period because our experience is that if they are reviewed as proposed, every 2 years, we will always face the pressure for an updating of fees every 2 years whether it is justified or not. The Minister has had some discussions with the Australian Medical Association on this matter and. as I understand it, the Australian Medical Association has put some proposals to the Government. The Government recognises that there must be a review from time to time. The proposals of the Australian Medical Association are being considered and a decision will be made. I do not think there is any doubt that an amicable arrangement will be reached. 
Despite the guffaws of  Senator Turnbull,  1 understand that he is not opposed to the idea of periodic reviews as against a set time for reviews. I do not remember him pressing for 2 years when he was a member of the Select Committee, although he now seems to be attracted to it. But I do say that there should be periodic reviews and this is the proposal which the Government is now considering. I can see dangers if the Government is forced to accept a set period for reviews. This seems to me to be a matter for arrangement between the Government and the AMA. I do not think there is any doubt that an arrangement as to the period or the time when reviews should be made can be reached. To my mind, this is more sensible than the proposal of the Australian Labor Party, supported by  Senator Turnbull.  For those reasons, I oppose the amendment. 
 My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a request by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations that the Commonwealth Government reframe the 1971 census questionnaire so as to seek more private information. I ask the Minister for an assurance that the Government, bearing in mind the growing concern at the tendency of governments and the Press to pry into people's private lives, will not accede to this request. 
 Senator Murphy  says that this is an extraordinary debate. I agree with him after hearing his argument. I have heard it said that lawyers can argue that black is white.  Senator Murphy  proved that just a few moments ago. We believe that a person should make a conscious choice as to whether he wishes to join a health benefits scheme and that this is his individual right. This is not civil conscription. If a person - one of the wealthy people to whom  Senator McClelland  referred in the second reading debate - decides that he is prepared to carry the cost of illness himself because he is well able to afford to do so, he should be permitted to do so. But the Australian Labor Party is now proposing that the taxpayers of Australia should compensate him by paying him the Commonwealth benefit. That seems to be in conflict with the Labor philosophy rather than in conflict with Liberal philosophy. We believe that a person has the right to decide whether he will join the scheme. If he makes a conscious choice not to join the scheme, that is his business and his right. I strongly oppose the idea that wealthy people should be paid the Commonwealth benefit which is paid for by the taxpayers of Australia. 
I must indicate my support for the amendment. As a member of the Senate select committee that unanimously recommended that the payment to patients in Queensland public hospitals should be $2 a day, in all justice I cannot now oppose that recommendation to which I was a party. I am also conscious of the recommendation of the Nimmo Committee which  Senator McClelland  read out. I believe that there is justice in this recommendation and that there is unfair discrimination against the people of Queensland. Therefore, I indicate my support for the amendment. 
I find myself in the unenviable position of having been a member of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs which recommended that the provision of 80c a day should be abolished. Paragraph 110 of the Committee's report states: 
Briefly, the Committee believes that the provision of the amount of 80 cents per day has, to some extent at least, a negative effect on encouraging insurance, and is of no significant advantage. It was a benefit initiated in 1946 (when the amount was 60 cents per day), raised in 1948, and absorbed, somewhat paradoxically, into the present scheme in 1952. It has no place in this scheme. 
Having been a party to this recommendation and to these comments I can do no other than stand in my place now and support the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee. 

 Senator Dame IVY WEDGWOOD (Victoria) 14.53]  -  I support what  Senator Sim  has said, but 1 do nol fmd myself in any unenviable position. I believe that this is right and I am quite prepared to vote for it. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [4.54] - I can only reply,  as  I did in relation  to  the previous request, that the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
Whilst I sympathise with what the Opposition hopes to achieve with this amendment 1 feel that at this stage 1 would not support it, particularly in view of the recommendations made by both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs which envisaged consultation between the Commonwealth and Slate governments lo devise the best form of assistance. 
The recommendations are the same in both reports. I am referring to the Wedgwood Report, chapter 10, paragraphs 254 and 255. Here, I believe, we envisage the Commonwealth and State authorities getting together and working out the best and most effective form of assistance that could be given in this very tragic area and I think it would be unwise for us to suggest that the Commonwealth should act unilaterally in this field. That may well, on history, discourage the State governments from acting at all, because they do in this field have certain responsibilities. I would rather urge upon the Commonwealth the need to discuss, as early as possible, with the State governments to try to find areas where together they could alleviate the suffering and the high costs involved. Therefore on those grounds I oppose the amendment. 

 Senator Dame IVY WEDGWOOD (Victoria) [5.5] - 1 should like to refer the Senate to the report of the Select Committee in which we say: 
The Committee makes no specific recommendation as to the most appropriate form of assistance as insufficient investigation appears to have been conducted into the problems and the Committee itself could not undertake such a task. 
Therefore whilst I would always be sympathetic to the needs of the handicapped child I would not be certain in my mind that the payment of $1.50 was the correct way of assisting them. There is so much that money cannot provide for the handicapped child - that is in terms of a small benefit or subsidy on behalf of the child - and [ would hope that the Commonwealth and the States would be able to develop schemes to assist physically handicapped children which would be much more generous than the payment of$1. 50. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing)[5.7] - Everyone in this chamber is conscious of the sadness of a handicapped child. Everyone, 1 know, is concerned with what can be done for both the parents and the child, and with the future of the child. 1 believe, however, that we have to look at what is being done. The payment at the present rate of $1.50 per day was introduced by the Government after very careful consideration of all the relevant factors. This benefit has provided very valuable assistance to the parents of handicapped children and is considered to be adequate in the present circumstances and having regard to the Commonwealth's overall commitments in the field of health. 
The rate of this benefit cannot validly be compared with the rate of hospital benefit. It should be noted that where a handicapped child who is covered by hospital insurance receives hospital treatment, the full Commonwealth benefit of $2 is paid. Also, if a child is receiving nursing home care and the institution is approved as a nursing home, then the benefits are paid accordingly. The section now under notice refers to the handicapped child who is in a handicapped children's home where the medical treatment required is not so intensive. After full consideration the Government believes that the legislation should remain as it is. Therefore it opposes the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
Thatthe request  (Senator McClelland's)  be agreed to. 
I oppose the amendment, even as it would be amended by  Senator McM  anus's amendment. It seems to me that somebody is wishing to engage in some sort of a witch hunt. It is true that both the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs and the Nimmo Committee found that the reserves held by many of these funds were far too high and could not be justified, and reported accordingly. I think it is also true that the Department of Health was somewhat concerned. Perhaps we should not be critical of the Department for relying on persuasion to try to convince some of these funds that they should act differently. 
The Department was reluctant to use the ultimate power of suspension or cancellation. I believe that it had good reason for adopting that attitude, namely, fear of disenfranchising hundreds of thousands of contributors in some cases. From the outside we can be critical, perhaps, and say that the threat of the use of this power may have discouraged some of these funds from developing large reserves. But what is the Opposition trying- to achieve by this amendment? If we delete proposed new paragraphs (h) and (k), we are saying that the DirectorGeneral and the Minister should present to the Parliament details of how these reserves are invested. 
With the greatest respect to the Parliament, 1 suggest that we are not in a position to argue whether these reserves are invested wisely or unwisely. We could stand in this place and argue for hours as to the wisdom or otherwise of investments. I suggest that the people who should exercise their power properly are the Department and the Minister, and not necessarily the Parliament. After all,  Senator Mulvihill  might have one idea and 1 might have a completely different idea as to the wise investment of reserves.  Senator Cant  referred to the funds investing their reserves on the stock exchange. Who would have had the foresight 3 months ago when Poseidon shares were rising to the sky to say that they would not be a sound investment? It may be that they are still a sound investment, today. 
But who is to judge whether an investment is a sound or unsound investment? 1 do not believe that it is the responsibility of the Parliament to make such a judgment. I refer now to paragraph (j) of the Opposition's amendment, which relates to details of direct or indirect interest in shareholdings held by directors of a fund in organisations in which the funds reserves have been invested. I would regard this as the most glorious opportunity for anybody who wishes to do so to engage in the most outrageous witch hunt of all times. The fact that a director or somebody else has a shareholding in another company does not mean that investment in it by a fund would not be an honest or sound investment. For a Parliament to make a judgment on this would mean that it is engaging in a witch hunt. The fact that a fund invests in a company in which a director or shareholder of the fund has an interest does not mean that it is an unsound or unwise investment. 1 cannot follow the argument that it is the responsibility of the Parliament to make these judgments and these decisions. 
One could speak at some length on this subject, but I do not intend to do so because I cannot see the purpose of the amendment. I believe it is adequately covered by the provisions of the bill. Subsection (1.) of proposed section 76a states that the Director-General shall, as soon as practicable after 30th June each year, furnish a report to the Minister on the operations of the funds. Sub-section (2.) of proposed section 76a goes on to detail the type of information which shall be furnished to the Minister. Paragraph (h) refers to such other information as the Minister requires to be included. These provisions will give the Minister very wide powers in relation to supervision of the funds and their investments. He will have a week to week or month to month control of the funds. Subsection (4.) of proposed section 76a states that the Minister shall lay each report under this section before each House of the Parliament within 1 5 sitting days of that House after it is received by the Minister. This will give the Parliament an opportunity to debate the report and, if it wishes, to seek further information. 1. believe that the whole situation is adequately covered by the provisions of the Bill. Therefore, on these grounds, I strongly oppose the amendments, including the amendment to the original amendment. 
When deleting paragraph (h) would we be deleting only paragraph (h) of the amendment? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Paragraph (h) will remain in the terms of the Bill, which relates to such other information as the Minister requires lo be included. 
of sub-section (2.) of proposed new section 76a of the Bill and insert paragraphs 
and (j) of the Opposition's amendment. The Opposition's lettering of the paragraphs would automatically follow. I agree with your ruling,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  that paragraph (h) does come out because 1 think, it specifically, says so. Therefore, the reference to 'such other information as the Minister requires to be included' has been taken out and in place of it there will be details about how the reserve funds have been invested and details of direct or indirect interest in shareholdings held in organisations in which the reserves of a fund have been invested. If the Minister requires more time to look at this matter, I do not think that there would be any harm in proceeding with the next amendment. As I read the proposed amendment, it may be acceptable to the Government. The reference to 'such other information' is being deleted and in its stead is to be reference to specific information. I make this offer to the Minister. I do not know whether she will require time to consider the matter. 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation draw the attention of the Australian National Airlines Commission to the fact that wool  posseses  all the qualities claimed for the material used in the hostesses' new uniforms, including the important one of non-inflammability? 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen a report that the new uniforms for Trans-Australia Airlines hostesses do not contain wool? Will the Minister seek from Trans- Australia Airlines - Australia's national airline - an explanation why woollen material was not used in the new uniforms? Will the Minister ask members of the Australia Labor Party who wish to protect Australia's wool industry by banning the export of merino rams whether they will now boycott TAA as a protest? 
After hearing  Senator Cavanagh  I am not too sure what he supports. I want to make it quite clear that in principle I support the various proposals which we have before us tonight. I congratulate  Mr Odgers  upon the very detailed report he has prepared at the bidding of the Standing Orders Committee. This report is the basis of 2 other proposals, one by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and one by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson). 
Debate interrupted. 
Last week I spoke for a brief time and indicated to the Senate my support in principle for the various proposals which had been put before it. I think on all sides of the Senate there is agreement that what we are seeking is a more effective and efficient operation of the Senate and a better use of the qualifications of senators. There is little doubt that the pressures of Parliament today have increased enormously, as have its - complexities. I think the strength of Parliament is its ability to meet changing conditions and bring into effect the reforms necessary in these circumstances. I think ever since Magna Carta one of the great challenges has been the power of Parliament over the Executive, and this has been a constant battle. It was a constant battle in the early days of the United Kingdom, when it was the power of the king and the power of Parliament. 1 always remember that in 1908, which is in reasonably modern times,  Sir Winston  Churchill referred - when he was out of office, I might add - to the challenge of the power of the Executive over the power of Parliament. 1 think we are all conscious of the need at all times to ensure that the power of Parliament is the supreme power. This is a problem that has exercised the minds of legislatures throughout the world. As  Mr Odgers  and the Standing Orders Committee in its report prepared for us have reminded us, many legislatures in the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada and New Zealand have adopted, in ways to suit their own conditions, the committee system. No other country has the same 'conditions as ours has, and we must be prepared to adapt our system to suit the conditions in our own country. This we are endeavouring to do. We have before us the success of our select committee system, which I think has served the Senate well. It is interesting to note that in the other place- 
I was going to mention that, but first I was going to say that in another place there is a move to establish select committees. In my view the most appropriate place for these is the Senate, which is to my mind becoming more and more a house of review and a house of investigation. My friend and colleague  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has just reminded me, and I hope us, of the proliferation of select committees, perhaps in some areas that are inappropriate for examination by select committees. Although they have served us well, I believe we have to move now into new areas. 
Before the Senate there are 3 proposals - those put forward by  Senator Murphy,  those put forward by the Democratic Labor Party and those put forward by the Government. I do not want to speak at length, but I want to say that the strength of our parliamentary government and our institutions depends on their readiness to change to meet changing conditions. I believe we are today faced, as we all recognise, with changing conditions, and we have to examine new means to meet those conditions so that Parliament will operate effectively. This chamber above all should operate effectively in what I believe is its main function - as a house of review, a house of investigation. Frankly, I am attracted by the proposal put forward by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson).  I am attracted by it for one reason - simplicity. We propose in the first instance 5 committees to consider the Estimates, and these committees are based upon the ministerial responsibilities of the Ministers in the Senate. It seems to me that this is a sensible approach because, as I would envisage, these committees would meet at the one time and therefore the Ministers would be available. Instead of going from committee to committee they would be available to attend committees investigating the ministerial responsibilities of which they themselves were responsible rather than having them split up over a number of committees. I say that because of its simplicity this appeals to mc. and this is what 1 support. Therefore, 1 submit to the Senate that the proposals of the Leader of the Government have, because of this one factor, an appeal to me. 
We could argue the proposal of the Leader of lbc Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  who lumps his committees into the various areas in which they would operate. I do not think they would operate as effectively as the proposals put forward by  Senator Anderson,  and after all we seek the most effective operation. I think we all agree that our first step is to establish Estimates committees and I, and 1 think others in this place, have become concerned over recent years al the rather farcical debates taking place on the Estimates, which go on week after week and become political forums rather than an opportunity to seek information. People are more and more inclined lo try lo make political points. Surely the Estimates debate is not the time for this; it is a time to examine government expenditure in all its various complexities, nol a time to make long speeches trying to gain political points on both sides. 
I think it is generally agreed that as a first step in the establishment of committees it is desirable to set up Estimates Committees to consider the Estimates away from the distractions of radio, away from all the elements of publicity, where they will be able to do this most effectively. Therefore, I think as a first step we should set up Estimates Committees and see how they work. I do not want to speak at any length, but I want to say that Ihe success or failure of this approach will depend upon the approach of all honourable senators. If they adopt a flexible approach, not a political one, the Committees will be successful. We on this side have been chided on recent occasons with not having the courage to oppose the Government. As one who voted against the Government the other day, I want to say that honourable senators on this side have clone this, but 1 have never seen a member of the Opposition vole against the decisions of his caucus. I am not saying this in a political sense; I am concerned with relating to an examination of the work of committees. 
Members of the Opposition have  no  flexibility or right to oppose the decisions made at their caucus meetings, whether the decisions be made in another place or at a joint meeting with members of another place. All members of the Opposition arc bound to accept those decisions, lt ill becomes them  lo  chide senators on this side  who  are not bound by decisions made anywhere. This is their responsibility. All I am saying is that they should not chide  us on  this particular matter. This is their political decision, their Party decision, lt is their right to make these decisions, but (hey should not chide senators on this side on this particular matter. Senators on this side are able to cross the floor and vote against the Government without any  fear  of action being taken against them. This does not happen on the  Opposition  side. If these Committees are to work effectively, as we hope they will, there must be acceptance of the fact that decisions will be made  on  their merits, not merely in accordance with some decision taken in a caucus. If the Opposition members have  no freedom  to make their  own  decision, I fear that these Committees will not work as I hope they will work. If anybody  on  a Committee is bound by some decision as to  how  he should act and vote as a member of that Committee, I feat that this committee system will not work as we all hope it will. 
There I stop, but I think this point should be made. After all, the Press reports are true lhat it was a very narrow decision which enabled the Opposition to support these proposals for a committee system. This is the way the Opposition works. 1 am not criticising, I am just making the point. I believe the effective operation of these Committees depends  on  us. As members of select committees, which in the main are  non-political,  we have learnt to work together and to try to judge things on their merits - not to be bound by decisions made outside. I do not want the Opposition to think that I am playing politics  on  this matter. I am not. I say again that the success or otherwise  of  the committee system depends on the freedom of honourable senators  on  both sides  of  the House to judge matters  on  their merits. I feel confident that this can be done, but it can be done only if we arc prepared to go into this committee system gradually so that we all learn how to operate it effectively. In recent times we have become used to the word gradualism. 
 Senator Gair  suggests the word cautious. Cautious is one word, gradualism another. I think they mean the same thing. I think it is an approach we have learned by working together, cooperating to make a success of this system. 
I do not want to enter into an argument about it.  Senator Gair  can put his own case. The setting up of the Estimates Committees will be our first responsibility in the Budget session. I would like to see the establishment of several of the standing committees which have been suggested to cover various areas of responsibility. Here, I feel we should move into this area either cautiously or gradually, so that we do not reach a situation where the Committees will not work. 
No, 1 think it is a necessary first step. 
 Senator Cavanagh  is expressing his view because his leader has put it forward. If he does not agree, let him say so. I respect the honourable senator's view. I think the Estimates Committees will be the first step to make it possible for a sensible examination in detail of the estimates of the various departments. The Estimates are not a political problem; they are a matter for information and for examination. In dealing with the Estimates, it is not a matter of playing politics, though they have become a matter on which politics have been played. 
In my opinion the first step should be to establish the Estimates Committees. I commend the approach by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  in this, but only because of the advantage of simplicity. Then I would like to see several standing committees established along the lines envisaged by the Standing Orders Committee, in accordance with the report presented by  Mr Odgers.  These standing committees should be grouped in a sensible manner, having regard to the various portfolios and matters which are relevant to one another. The Senate would, where necessary, refer Bills to ' these committees, which in the main would take over the responsibility of select committees. Senators on these committees would over a period gradually develop expertise in matters in which the committees were interested. 
Honourable senators know that we go on select committees with little knowledge of the subjects we are asked to investigate, and it becomes a matter of learning. One could well imagine that over a period of time, members of a committee would develop expertise upon the subject with which they were dealing almost week by week and month by month. I commend this approach to the Senate. I believe, as senators have learnt on select committees, that it is a good thing for members of the Government, the Opposition and the Democratic Labor Party, and  Senator Turnbull,  to work together. Let honourable senators learn to work together on the major issues as they have learnt to do on select committees. This spirit of co-operation will produce a better Parliament and a better system. 
So,  Mr Deputy President,  I support the approaches that have been made. I support the proposals put forward by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I support the view that standing committees, as well as the Estimates committees, should be set up - two or three to begin with. Let us gain experience and see how they work, and move on from there. Let us adopt the sensible approach so that we can achieve what I believe honourable senators on both sides of the House hope to achieve - a very successful working of the committee system, which can only be to the advantage of the Senate and must lead to a more effective working not only of the Senate but of the entire Parliament as well. It will make the best use of the qualifications of honourable senators. 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the irresponsible action of trade unions, supported by the Australian Labor Party, in placing a ban on the export of merino rams. In view of the encouragement and support given by some members of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party to the North Vietnamese, Vietcong and aggressive Communist imperialism, and acknowledging that China and Romania have purchased rams and that the Soviet Union has expressed interest in purchasing rams, will the Minister draw the attention of trade unions to the fact that the ban is opposed to the principle of solidarity of Communist powers expressed by some members of the Australian Labor Party and sections of the Australian trade union movement? 
There was a time when  Senator O'Byrne, Senator Bull  and 1 would have agreed on tariff policy. There was also a time when the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr .1. F. Cairns)  and I would have agreed on tariff policy, lt is probably the only thing on which I would ever have agreed with him. But it appears as if somebody has influenced them to change their opinions and they have done a complete turnabout. I regret to hear  Senator O'Byrne  say tonight that the Opposition is going to oppose the Thirteenth Schedule to the Bill, which deals wilh man-made fibres, because 1 can well recall many of the speeches which  Senator O'Byrne  has made in this chamber on tariffs in which he has expressed his strong support for the principles of tariff making which were laid down by the Tariff Board in its annual reports of 1966-67 and 1967-68. I do not know what has happened, but it would appear that the Australian Labor Party is turning back towards protectionism as a policy. 
I heard an honourable senator whisper that the Labor Party has always been protective, but there have been some doubts about its policy. I can well recall the honourable member for Lalor expressing in the other place full support for the Tariff Board's attitude. It is not a question of protectionism versus free trade, although some people think it is and that the only issue is black or white. This is a matter of adopting a sensible approach to tariff making in this modern age. 
Because of the time factor I do not intend to deal tonight at length with this question of tariff making in Australia. I regret that it seems to be the custom for tariff proposals to be brought into the Senate at the end of a session. It is a long time since we have had a real opportunity to discuss tariff making in Australia at some length and in some detail. I would welcome a debate on this subject at any time. I have spoken at considerable length on this subject in the past. My views are wall known to honourable senators. Therefore, I shall speak very briefly tonight. I wish to congratulate the Tariff Board on its excellent report on manmade fibres. I will strongly oppose the amendment which the Opposition proposes to move for the omitting of the Thirteenth Schedule to the Bill 
Ever since the Tariff Board announced a new approach to tariff making in Australia many sections of industry have squealed even before they have been hit. They have read into the Board's report all sorts of dire results to them. If we study the history of tariff making in Australia we will see that the plain fact is that a great number of our industries grew up in times of economic stress without reference to the Tariff Board. 
There were long periods in our history during the First World War, during the economic depression and during the Second World War when industries were granted high levels of protection because of the needs of the time. Many of those industries have grown and still receive the high levels of protection that were granted to them in those days. Because of pressures and for other reasons, the Tariff Board has not had the opportunity to review the levels of protection granted those industries. What has become, known as the existence principle - the principle that because an industry exists it must be protected at all costs - has grown into the tariff making policy in Australia. Today the Tariff Board is starting to rethink that policy and that has caused some heartburnings in industry. 
This is a fascinating subject and one which I would welcome the opportunity to develop, but I will not do so tonight. However, let me say that in Australia today we face a situation in which tariffs represent a substantial cost to the Australian community. They represent a substantial cost to our unprotected primary industries. When I speak of unprotected primary industries I have in mind particularly our great wool industry and our meat industry. There is no denying that tariffs represent a substantial cost. They are, in effect, a tax on imports that the community must bear. No-one quarrels with reasonable protection for Australian industry, because we must have industry. The criterion 'economic and efficient' has always been difficult to define in precise terms. The Tariff Board in its 1967-68 report indicated clearly that it was trying to develop criteria by which it could define in more precise terms the phrase 'economic and efficient'. 
If the need exists to rationalise and restructure our primary industries because of changed economic conditions - I think many of us agree that that must be done; indeed we passed a Bill only yesterday relating to the dairying industry which, in effect, is an attempt to restructure the industry - surely the same principle applies to our manufacturing industries. This country no longer can afford uneconomic use of its scant resources, whether primary industry or manufacturing industry be concerned. We must be prepared to change to meet the economic conditions which exist today and which are likely to exist in the future. It is unchallengeable, I believe, that high protection has led to fragmentation in a large number of Australian industries. This has meant many plants competing for a small domestic market. There come to mind immediately the chemical industry, the motor car industry - at one stage we had 5 manufacturers competing for a small Australian market but now there are only 4, one. having gone by the board - and the small engine industry which was the subject of a Tariff Board report several years ago in which the Tariff Board was somewhat critical of the fragmentation of the industry. lt is an economic fact of life that high protection imposes a correspondingly higher cost on Australian industry than does a lower degree of protection. Therefore the Tariff Board announced its policy of reviewing areas of high protection to see whether the industries concerned still require the high level of protection which was granted to them, in some cases many years ago, and whether they can exist efficiently with a lower level of protection which will impose a correspondingly lower cost on the Australian community. The Board also will exam ne those industries which are receiving a higher level of protection to see whether they are making a contribution lo the development and growth of. Australia. That is a sound policy particularly when we realise  -  I believe we all must acknowledge - the tremendous pressures upon the labour market, especially the skilled labour market, and upon the scarce economic resources that are available to us to develop this country. 
We are indebted to people of the calibre of  Sir Leslie  Melville, a former  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, who in 1967 directed critical attention to this aspect of tariff making in Austral a: to the Vernon Committee, which 1 believe in its comments on tariff policy produced the best parts of its report; to  Mr Kanigan,  the present  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, who with great courage has outlined what he believes to be the correct policy of tar fT making in Australia; and to  Sir Alan  Westerman, Secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry. I should like to quote a statement made by  Sir Alan  Westerman in a speech to the Australian Chemical Industry Council last year, because it is true that Australian industry must look increasingly to exports and therefore must be competitive on the world markets if Australia is to get the throughput necessary to keep costs within reasonable levels.  Sir Alan  Westerman said: 
The alternative to making the world our market for secondary industries is ossified, stultified secondary industry based on products with smaller domestic opportunities and hence relying upon higher and higher tariff barriers with a decreasing rate of development and meriting the  description  uneconomic and inefficient. 
I do nol believe that anyone in this place would disagree with those remarks. They put in a nutshell the attitude that I and my colleague  Senator Bull,  as well as  Mr Kelly, Mr Street  and  Mr Maisey  in another place, have adopted for many years in putting forward our views on tariff policy. f wish to conclude by making only a brief reference to this Thirteenth Schedule, which  Senator O'Byrne  has announced the Labor Party will oppose. This relates lo the Tariff Board's report on man-made fibres, which produced from the textile industry a perhaps understandable reaction, because this industry has enjoyed for a long time a substantial level of protection. I think wc all recall the full page advertisements which appeared in the daily Press protesting against this decision of the Tariff Board. Many of us received correspondence from this industry suggesting that we should oppose the Tariff Board's recommendations which were accepted by the Government. These advertisements were, at best misleading. Although it is true that the textile industry employs some 150.000 people, employment is not the criterion by which we should determine tariff policy. These Tariff Board recommendations affect, 1 understand, only about 2.5% of the textile work force, so about 97.5% arc noi affected by the recommendations we are discussing tonight. 
These arc the figures I have been given. Unless someone can prove that they are wrong I will accept them. 
I have them, and if  Senator Webster  wants to dispute them he may. Many sections of the textile industry depend upon low priced imports to carry on their section of the industry. The main organisation concerned with these recommendations was Fibremakers Ltd, which is a subsidiary of Imperial Chemical Industries, an international company. Last night I heard my friend and colleague  Senator Webster  discussing the margarine industry and complaining that the overseas companies producing margarine were undermining the butter industry in Australia. I suggest that the same principle might apply here. ICI is an overseas company. If that principle can be applied to the margarine industry, let us apply it to other industries. 
As I understand it, Fibremakers buys its raw material from its parent company at prices above those for which it could buy from other sources. Therefore I find myself without great sympathy for this industry. If it is not able to compete with other industries we must consider whether it is an industry worth saving. I say this quite deliberately because w.; have to apply the same criteria to secondary industry as we apply to primary industry today. We should not apply one rule for one industry and another rule for another industry. If an industry cannot compete on reasonable terms with due regard to our cost structure we must question, as the Tariff Board questions, whether it is an industry worth saving in view of the effect it is having on the cost structure of the Australian community. We have heard a great deal about employment. 
I will not argue with  Senator Webster.  I would be delighted, if we had more time, to enter into a debate with him on this whole matter. But, as I said, I intend to speak very briefly and to close on this subject. I stand by my speech, and I will be happy to debate with  Senator Webster  before any group of farmers anywhere in Australia tariff policy, including the protection of the textile industry. I conclude by saying that one of the great myths that have been built up in Australia is the myth that high protection is necessary to sustain a high level of employment. I say this is a myth because we have had in Australia a higher level of employment in manufacturing industries than exists in the United States of America. It is a truth that as countries deveop the proportion of the population engaged in secondary industry falls. The great employment agencies are the tertiary industries, not the manufacturing industries. Not so many years ago some 35% or 36% of the Australian work force was engaged in manufacturing industries. Today the figure is down to about 25%. Of this 25% no more than 15%, according to the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry, are engaged in protected industries. So manufacturing industries are not, as we have been led to believe, the biggest employers of labour, and they do not absorb the whole of our immigration intake. It is the great tertiary industries which, as we develop further, become the main employers. 
Does  Senator Webster  not know what tertiary industries are? He should do his homework. I refer to transport industries, insurance companies and all those other industries apart from manufacturing industries. 
Yes. They are referred to as tertiary or service industries. They are the great employers of labour and they will become increasingly so as time goes by. I regret that I have dealt with this subject only very briefly, but it is because the time is late and we are ending the session that I have done so. I support fully the Tariff Board report. I congratulate the Tariff Board on its report and on the attitudes that it is adopting, which I believe are in the best interests of Australia. 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry I refer to the report that freight on wool shipments to the United Kingdom and Europe is likely to rise. In view of the injurious effect on the wool industry of any freight increase will the Government give every assistance to the wool industry to negotiate agreements for the carriage of wool which by-pass the conference shipping line? 
I should imagine that this question would be better directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport because any negotiations in relation to this matter would be within the responsibility of his portfolio. 1 will direct the question to him and no doubt a reply will be sent to the honourable senator during the recess. 
The speech we have just heard shows the danger of engaging in a series of generalities. It is not my intention to follow the lead of  Senator Cant.  1 wish only to speak briefly. There is a grave danger of the wool industry and others becoming so engrossed with marketing and the need or otherwise for marketing changes - which they seem to regard as some panacea that will overcome all the problems of the wool industry; and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  only a day or two ago gave a warning on this subject - that they will ignore the many other things it is necessary to do if we are to put this great Australian industry on a much firmer basis than it is on al present. We cannot ignore the other adjustments that have become necessary. It is not my intention at this late stage to go into all these details; I only want to make  one or  two points. 
Firstly, I understood  Senator Cam  to say that the establishment of a statutory corporation would  relieve the cost price squeeze - and he left it at that. I am not arguing now with the advisability or desirability of establishing a statutory corporation, but for  Senator Cant  merely to make that statement is quite unreal, because the establishment of a statutory corporation will not relieve us of the problems of the cost price squeeze at all. 
As a wool grower I am interested in one thing; that is, is something going to put cents per lb into my pocket? I am not interested in airy fairy ideas. When someone convinces me that a change is going to put cents per lb into my pocket I am all for it, because that is what people are interested in. 
That will not help. In any event, that is the most stupid remark I have heard on this. I agree prices are unrealistic, but to blame marketing as being the sole cause is also unrealistic. The other day I came across some facts, and this is the real reason why I rose to speak. I think they should be known. It is reprehensible that some leaders in the wool industry have not made these facts public, because they should remove any degree of complacency that the problem is partly one of marketing and partly the cost price squeeze. The facts disclosed are of falling consumption and the failure of wool to benefit from the increased demand for textile fibres. In the few minutes I have left to speak I intend to put some of these facts before the Senate. In the first quarter of 1970, as against the first quarter of 1969. consumption of merino wool in the United Kingdom feil by 16% while that of man made fibres fell by only 1%. 
In the United Kingdom the consumption of man made fibres fell by 1%. I will come to the world increase in the use of man made fibres in a moment. In January 1970, as against January 1969, the stocks of wool yarn in Japan increased by 11% and of woven woollen fabrics by  5%.  In the United States of America the consumption of apparel wool in 1969 reached the lowest level since the war; it went to 9% be:ow the figure for 196S. 
These are alarming figures. I come to the point raised by  Senator Cant.  Between 1959 and 1969 wool consumption rose from 3,178 million lb clean weight to 3,510 million lb clean weight but the consumption of synthetics rose in the same period from 1,271 million lb to 9,589 million lb. 
No, 1 am afraid I have not. These are just the figures 1 wish to quote. 
Yes. I agree that they are very interesting figures. I have not the figures about which  Senator Cant  asked. lt is interesting to note that wool consumption, while falling in the developed countries has been rising slightly in the under developed countries. This can be attributed to the lower wool prices. The figures I have mentioned remove any reason for complacency as to the position of wool on the world textile fibre market and, to my mind, make unreal the view that we can impose - much as I would like to see il done - a price on the world market above what that market is prepared to pay. 
All the modern mills throughout the world can change from the manufacture of woollen cloth to synthetics with very little change or interruption to their production. Therefore Australia is not in a very strong position to bargain on world prices. That does not mean that I am against change in marketing. I am not against change in marketing. I believe that we have to develop a marketing system that is the best for us, but I have to be satisfied that the system we develop is not one developed in desperation but is one to which great thought has been given. Any attempt to force a price on the world market could have disastrous consequences for our wool industry. Many people seem to overlook that fact, lt is not use referring to what happened in the First World War, after the First World War or after the Second World War. Those conditions do not exist today. We are facing ever increasing competition from man-made fibres and this is proving a great threat to the Australian wool industry and to the wool industry in the world generally. After all. the world consumption of wool as a proportion of the total textile fibre consumption is falling almost year by year, lt has fallen from 10% a year or 2 ago to 8% now, and shows signs of falling still further. 
I merely make those comments because we cannot ignore the facts. We do not want to become obsessed with the idea that marketing is the panacea to cure all our ills. We have to ensure that the necessary restructuring of the wool industry takes place, that wool handling is improved because a high cost is involved in the handling of wool, that core testing is improved to make sure that we are presenting a belter guarantee product, and that there is better presentation of the wool clip. These are all matters of considerable priority. I am critical of the cost involved in handling wool from the woolshed to its point of destination. That cost represents a very serious burden to the industry. 1 have some figures produced by the Committee of Economic Development of Australia in its recent report. Handling costs from the wool grower's store to the point of entry in the importing country were $28.1.2 for each bale of wool exported to the United Kingdom, 523.83 to Japan and $30.20 to the United States of America. If we could save a few dollars pec bale, on the handling that would represent a considerable saving to the wool industry. I feel that in this area there is room for a considerable saving in costs. 
I support the Bill. 1 have nol really spoken much about it. The Bill represents, on my figures, a saving of about S6m annually to the wool industry. The figures for the fall in consumption support the view that we have to improve our promotion and research if we are to hold our position on the world market. 

 Senator LITTLE (Victoria) [I2.41We have heard 2 speeches designed to convince us that there are some problems in the wool industry. Those speeches would have been very valuable, had we all not been aware already that there are problems in the wool industry. The Bill is a simple one. lt sets out to do 2 things. Its first purpose is to make allowance for the Australian Wool Board to borrow money for specified purposes to assist the industry and the manufacturing process. That is a good thing. The Board should be he authority to do this. If anbody has a better suggestion, that someone else should do it, that has not been mentioned in the course of the debate. We have no option but to accept that the Board is the proper authority to have that borrowing power to carry out the tasks set out in the Bill. Therefore my Party supports the Bill. 
An encouraging feature of the Bill is that the Government, recognising the problems in the industry, is setting out to accept a larger responsibility for the scientific research and for providing the money needed by the industry for its own scientific research into ways of improving its product, its marketing and anything else that may help to lift the industry out of the doldrums. It is true that the problems which exist do not flow from any one particular source, and they never have done. The wool industry is faced with tremendous problems, but it would be a very unwise person who would think that there is some magical cure somewhere or that the problems flow from one specific source. Going back over the years one finds that other industries are also subject to the ups and downs of prosperity. In fact after the 1914-1918 war the armament manufacturers, such as Vickers-Armstrong, found themselves in a most embarrassing position because of the capital development that had come about in their industry for the purpose of supplying the allied forces with arms. They found themselves in the post-war years with an industrial giant that they could not keep satisfied with sufficient orders. The size of the investment in the industry was gradually wrecking it. This is only one of the problems that faces the wool industry. After some years of extraordinary prosperity it finds that the cost structure of the industry has been expanded and developed by its own prosperity. This has caused a series of problems. 
I do not want to say any more along those lines because it would be foolish to endeavour to deal with the problems of the wool industry in a short Bill such as this which, when we are finished discussing it, will accomplish only 2 things which we all agree are desirable. For that reason I propose to say no more about it. 
 Senator 0'Byrne  opened this debate by referring to the hopeless situation facing the Australian primary producers, which he alleged has been brought about by Government policy. He did not enlarge on this point. I challenge  Senator 0'Byrne  and say that he does not understand the problem facing the primary industries. The problem is not a purely Australian one. It is a worldwide one which is facing the primary producers in every developed and underdeveloped country of the world and to which no-one has found the answer. The matter is not just one of rises in costs. The real problem is a fall in prices, which is worldwide. According to the International Monetary Fund, over the years only 2 developed countries in the world have been more successful than Australia in containing costs. They are the United States of America and Canada. Australia is not far behind cither of those countries. Those countries have problems facing primary producers. One of the problems is that the prices of primary products have fallen throughout the world because no-one is prepared to pay those prices yet the price of all other products has risen. This is a simple fact of economic life. 

 Senator O'Byrne chided honourable senators on this side and asked how many of us had seen droughts, stock sales and wool sales today. In looking round at my colleagues, I see  Senator Maunsell,  who has spoken in the debate and who has experienced 10 years of drought on his property. Not one member of the Opposition has experienced, as a property owner, a drought. Many of us on this side have spent a lifetime in the primary industries. We have much money invested in these industries and still retain a close and active interest in them. I am one of these people. Today my wool is in store waiting to be sold. I have seen wool sales, stock sales and droughts. Not one member of the Opposition knows anything about primary industries. Not one member of the Opposition has been a genuine primary producer in his life. Honourable senators who are trying to interject remind me of the unpleasant character Dickens portrayed - Uriah Heep, who wrung his hands and shed crocodile tears of sympathy for the suffering. They know nothing about primary industries. They have never been primary producers. Today they raised this matter which, I think, is a problem. We know it is a problem because we are in the industries. We know first hand that there is a grave problem. 
I come back to the Labor Party and to its policies. We have heard strong criticism of the Government for not being able to contain costs. 1 ask the Labor Party: What is its policy? For years its policy which its members have followed has been the breaking up of. economic units for closer settlement - to form uneconomic units. History has shown that the Labor Party has broken up economic properties to develop as uneconomic properties. These have been aggregated again into economic units and the Labor Party, in the pursuit of its policy of closer settlement, has broken them up again. 
The second point that I make concerns working hours. 1 challenge representatives of the Labor Party to rise and say where it stands in relation to the claim of the Australian Workers Union and others for a 35-hour week in the pastoral industry. Do members of the Labor Party agree to loading this industry with further costs arising from the granting of a 35-hour week? Do they agree with that policy? If they agree with it, I challenge them to rise and say that they agree with it. Do they agree with the policy of the AWU, which could not obtain from the courts a 40-hour week, which has ordered its members to work a 40-hour week only and which has threatened to declare black any property owner who does not abide by the AWU decision? 
I challenge the honourable senator to rise and say where he stands on this. He is supposed to be sympathetic towards primary industries. The AWU has threatened to declare black any property owner who does not abide by the AWU decision - not a court decision - that its members will work a 40-hour week only. What costs of overtime are being loaded on to the cost structure of the rural industries which are suffering such problems today. If the honourable senator agrees with the AWU, he should have the courage to rise and say that he agrees. If the honourable senator does not agree with the AWU that this is loading the primary industries with further costs, he should rise and say that he has no sympathy for the primary producers in this respect. 
 Senator Mulvihill  will have his chance to say what he wishes to say on this issue. I do not think he will rise and say it. A couple of years ago, in a wages case, our friend  Mr Hawke  submitted to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that it should disregard the plight of the primary producers when fixing wages in the industry. He said words to the effect that the cost price squeeze in rural industries was not the problem of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission but was the responsibility of the Government. He had no regard for the responsibility of the Government to make up any loss. My colleague  Senator Young,  who is also a primary producer, quoted the statement made on 19th February by  Mr Hawke.  I ask members of the Opposition whether they agree with his statement. 
Then stand up and say that you agree with it so that every primary producer in Australia may know. I ask: Do you agree with what  Mr Whitlam  said in 1965? It is of no use  Senator Cant  saying that this happened a long time ago because he quoted what my friend the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake- Brock man)  said in 1961. On 21st August 1965  Mr Whitlam  said that too much attention was being paid to the wishes and needs of rural areas. I ask members of the Labor Party sitting opposite whether in 1965 they agreed with what  Mr Whitlam  said? If they did not agree with him I ask: Did they stand up and say so? The Moratorium people today carry stupid placards bearing the words 'silence means consent'. If honourable senators opposite support the Moratorium and if they adopt that slogan then their silence at that time means that they agreed with  Mr Whitlam  that too much attention was being paid to the rural industries. If too much attention was being paid in 1965 to rural industries, what are the crocodile tears about today? 
In the past L have had the support of  Senator O'Byrne  on the question of tariffs.  Senator Cant  raised the matter of tariffs in this debate. However, in the last debate on tariffs, which was held just before the end of the last session, there was the strongest criticism from members of the Labor Party. That criticism was led by  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the Labour Party's trade expert in the other place. He attacked the Tariff Board because it recommended lower tariffs on textiles. The Government accepted that recommendation. Let members of the Labor Party stand up and say where they stand on the question of protection. At the same time,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  they were crying that the attitude expressed by you and me in this place had suddenly changed.  Senator Cant  raised this question today. 
I want to come back to a few facts of life. If we are to understand the problems of Australia's rural industries today we have to understand the historical basis on which those industries were built. They were built upon the basis that their production was oriented towards the need to provide cheap food for the United Kingdom and Europe. This was the role filled by Australian primary industries for many years. Our production was oriented towards the needs of Europe and the United Kingdom. The fact is that this situation has changed. Europe today is self-sufficient in many of the products which we formerly exported to that area. Today Europe exports dairy products, of which there is a huge surplus building up. Europe exports soft wheat. Europe is becoming an exporter of sugar and may possibly have achieved this status. In the past Europe relied on Australia as one of the countries which provided the bulk of its needs. This was the experience of our primary industries in the past but the situation today is that we have to reorient our production to the needs of the modern world. In doing so we have to become market oriented and not production oriented, it would be complete and utter folly for Australia to continue producing commodities for which there is no world demand. That is the situation we face. At one time we could sell all our dairy products but we cannot do so today. 
Another factor is that the United Kingdom is likely to enter the European Economic Community. If and when that happens the dairy products market in the United Kingdom will be lost to us. At one time we could sell all our wheat but today there is a surplus in the world's markets. This is not the fault of the Australian Government; it is a fact of economic life because of a change in production, economic and agricultural policies adopted in other countries. There has been this craze - I believe it is a craze - for economic selfsufficiency. At one time we had a big market in Europe and the United Kingdom for sugar but today that market is failing and eventually it will be lost to us. 
These are facts of economic life. The situation is that we have to adjust our production to the markets available. We have to switch to the production of commodities required by other countries. This is a traumatic experience which Australian primary industries have to go through. It is not unique to Australia; it is happening in other countries. We have to adopt policies to meet these changing conditions and unfortunately some people will be hurt. Our policies have to be aimed at seeing that our primary producers are hurt as little as possible and that they are assisted to change from one form of production to another or, if necessary, to leave the industry concerned. I believe that these are facts of life. 
This brings me to the question of what is an economic unit. Some people use the expression 'small farmer'. I do not use it because I believe it is incorrect. Many farmers with small holdings are efficient and run economic properties. You cannot define an economic unit in a precise way. However there are many uneconomic farmers. Many of them are uneconomic not through their own fault but because of mistaken Government policies which the Labor Party has always fostered. Farmers have been placed on areas which in view of changing conditions are uneconomic. Governments always seem to follow this policy. Only recently  I  visited Kununurra with my friend and colleague  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. The same kind of situation has come about in that area. The size of the properties is about 600 acres. They have pickers costing $27,000 which will quite easily handle 500 acres in one year but because of the size of the properties their use is limited to about 300 acres. They have other equipment which will handle 500 or 600 acres but again their use is limited because of the size of their properties. Governments never seem to learn about such situations and always seem to work on minimum areas. The Labor Party is probably the worst offender in this respect. 
 Senator Mulvihill  is chattering about the Riverina and so on. He will have the opportunity to announce his Party's policy and to answer thc question  I  raised about charges and hours. Let us see where he stands on those matters. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator  BULL) - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
In addressing my question to the Leader of the Government I refer to the rejection by the Commonwealth Government of an application by the State of Western Australia for financial assistance towards drought relief. In view of the rapidly deteriorating drought position in Western Australia, which is becoming very serious in parts and a further request by the Western Australian Government for drought relief, will the Minister put before the Government the need to review the decision and to grant . Western Australia relief on the same basis as it has been granted to other States? 
Representations were made on the Prime Minister-Premier level in relation to Western Australia. Careful consideration was given to the request from the Premier of Western Australia for assistance. However, the amount involved was of the order normally met by State governments and, bearing in mind the established principles and the need to deal uniformly with the States in terms of the principles rather than the individual case, the Commonwealth was unable to agree to the Western Australian request. As 1 see it, if there were thought to be a deteriorating situation it would be open to the Premier of a State to make further representations having regard to the circumstances. 
We have listened to the usual smart alec speech on foreign affairs by  Senator Wheeldon  who is obsessed with Vietnam, as well he may be, because after all at the time of the Moratorium the honourable senator is on record in this Senate as saying that he supports the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. He having said that, we would expect this type of speech again today. I can well imagine the smile coming across the face of General Giap, the North Vietnamese Defence Minister, who said that one of the objectives of the Communists was to destroy the will of the Western world to resist. He has an ally, because every word uttered by  Senator Wheeldon  was aimed at destroying the will to resist. It is another example of the success of the psychological warfare which the Communists have waged in order to achieve their objectives- I will not follow  Senator Wheeldon  in Vietnam today. T have other things about which I want to speak.  Senator Wheeldon  having said that he supports the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong, we can judge the whole of bis speech on that. 
I wish to take issue with  Senator Wheeldon  on only one other matter. He said, with his usual disregard for the facts, that  Mr Freeth  had said that he welcomed the Russians in the Indian Ocean.  Mr Freeth  said no such thing. I have his speech here and I have gone through it. The word 'welcome' is used once. 
Do not try to get away from this. The honourable senator made this deliberate statement. We can judge the rest of his speech on this statement. The word 'welcome' was used once.  Mr Freeth  said: 
The Australian Government at all times welcomes the opportunity of practical and constructive dealings with the Soviet Union, as with any other country . . . 
The word 'welcome' was not used anywhere else in the speech. So much for the facts which  Senator Wheeldon  wished to put before us today. I wish to speak seriously and not to engage in a lark. 1 think I should start by briefly examining the objectives of foreign policy. As I understand them, the objectives of the foreign policy of any country are to protect and to enhance the security of the country and that of other vital interests - political, economic and social. With this, there must always be the acknowledgement that our security and welfare is inextricably bound up with the security and welfare of others. There always appears to be one problem with regard to foreign policy, lt must always be developed in an area of uncertainty because we can never be precise and certain of the reactions or intentions of other countries or of the changes in attitudes of other countries with whom we deal and whose policies are of concern to us. It seems to me that foreign policy must always be flexible enough to be able to change quickly to meet changing circumstances because nothing remains static for long, particularly in the changing and turbulent area in which we live. 
Nothing illustrates this more than the slightly discernible change in Japanese attitude to the outside world. This is illustrated best by her attendance at the Djakarta conference on Cambodia. No-one can doubt that Japan has an important role to play, particularly in Asia. I think it is important that we should continually seek a better understanding with Japan and encourage her to play a growing part in the economic development of Asia; nor should we overlook her potential interest in the security of the Indian Ocean - a matter with which I shall deal in a moment - because 90% of Japan's oil passes through the Indian Ocean as does a good deal of her trade, particularly with Australia. 
As I have just indicated I would, I now turn my attention to the Indian Ocean, which is an area of growing concern and involvement. In the past the Indian Ocean has not been of great concern to us as its security has always been guaranteed by the presence of strong military and naval forces from the United Kingdom. The announced withdrawal of the United Kingdom forces has brought home to us the vulnerability of this ocean bordered as it is by some of the most populous countries in the world and some countries which are going through great economic, political and social change. The United Kingdom decision to withdraw, at the time it was announced by the previous United Kingdom Government, was one for the United Kingdom alone to make. Undoubtedly it introduced a new element of uncertainty and instability in this area. Now there has been a change of government in the United Kingdom and some change of policy. What that will be, we do not know yet. I do not believe that we can make any long term decisions based on the certainty of a continuing United Kingdom presence. 
If we have a very quick look at the Indian Ocean area - and then come to the matter of the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean - firstly we must look at the attitude of some of the African countries which, as far as I can ascertain, have no definable Indian Ocean policy. They are more concerned with their own search for internal stability through changed tribal groupings and power balances within their own countries. There exists within these countries not only Western influence but also strong Chinese and Russian influences - in most cases in competition. This is an area of conflict between China and the Soviet Union. I will mention briefly that subject a little later. Pakistan, which is a country bordering the Indian Ocean, has no Indian Ocean policy, as far as I know. It has shown little or no concern with the Indian Ocean area. Ceylon has a run down naval base at Trincomalee. It has had a change of government. It is difficult to know where Ceylon will go. There must always be a question mark  about future Ceylonese policies, particularly in relation to China because any change there would certainly not be welcomed by India. If one could rationalise Indian policy, it is opposed to any major power attempting to dominate the Indian Ocean area and is opposed to the provision of bases to any foreign power. As far as one can ascertain, that is Indian policy. Singapore and Malaysia welcomed a continuing United Kingdom presence and now are very concerned at the departure of United Kingdom forces. They wish to see, if the United Kingdom does eventually leave the area, as I believe it will, a strong and credible counterveiling force remain. 1 turn now to what has really drawn our attention to this area. I refer to the appearance in 1968 of some Russian ships in the Indian Ocean. I do not believe that at this stage we should become overobsessed with the Russian presence, but I believe that we should try to assess the implications of the Soviet presence. as best we can and also to assess the Soviet's objectives and intentions in the Asian area. Today, because of the shortage of time, 1 am content to make 2 or 3 observations. In recent times there has been a stepping up of Soviet diplomatic and trade activity in the South East Asian area particularly. The Soviet has also been providing substantial military support to India to counter the threat from China. The Soviet has provided some economic support to India, but this, as we know, is always tied support. Recent reports suggest that some military support has been given to Pakistan also. It would appear that Russia is showing considerable interest in the South Asian region. One could perhaps make a judgment and say that Australia is not likely to be endangered directly by the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean except in the event of a global war or in the event of a threat developing to security because of a political upheaval in the South Asian or South East Asian area. 
As I mentioned before, I do not think we should become too obsessed with Russia because, in the long term, it may well be that China will present a greater threat than the Soviet Union in the Indian Ocean area. Already China has strong influences in Pakistan. 1 need not go into the history of how she obtained those influences, but the influences are substantial. With the change of government in Ceylon, China may well have some influence there. Already there is some economic penetration in Ceylon. China has strong influences in Tanzania and Somalia, particularly in Somalia, in conflict with the Soviet Union. She is organising and arming the national liberation forces. We hear a lot about national liberation forces and what their objectives are in the Yemen. Also China is not unaware of the Persian Gulf area where today Russia is exercising strong influences as the British withdraw. So we find China taking an active interest in this area and, in many portions of it, in conflict with the Soviet Union. 
I have already referred to the statement by the former Minister for External Affairs,  Mr Freeth,  which came under strong criticism. I have defended it on 2 or 3 occasions in this place and will still defend it because I believe it presented a true picture. Let us examine the reasons why the Soviet Union has moved into the Indian Ocean. First of all. she is a global power and desires to act as a global power. In recent limes she has moved away from maintaining only an inshore navy. She has moved to the Mediterranean and I suppose it is sensible, if one is a Russian, to move next into the Indian Ocean, where she is now trying to exercise influence and counter Chinese influence. Secondly, her objective is to extend Soviet influence wherever possible at the expense of Western influence, and this may not please us. 
Thirdly - and I do not put these points in any order of priority - she wishes to counter the influence of China and establish for herself a leadership role in the cause of underdeveloped countries. I think it is important that at some stage we should give a good deal of thought to the Russian objective of countering the influence of China. Fourthly - and this is a matter of concern - Russia desires to exploit local situations in order to replace pro-Western governments with ones more sympathetic to the Soviet Union. On this matter I make 2 comments. The very presence of a Russian force, however small, in any area would inhibit other countries from taking any action. We recall, for instance the American landing in Lebanon in 1958 and the British action in Kenya in 1965. A Russian force would have been  an  inhibiting factor. One may even speculate on what the situation in Indonesia might have been at the time of the overthrow of Sukarno had there been a few Russian ships patrolling off the Indonesian coast. Wavering forces might have been undecided on which way they should turn. So one can see that any Russian presence, however small, must be of considerable concern. 
I agree with  Senator Gair  but I am afraid that some of those who sit on his right do not agree with him. Russia is also very interested in the Persian Gulf area where, as I mentioned before, she is trying to replace - and succeeding to a great extent - British influence in Iran and Iraq. This must be a matter of some concern to us because a considerable amount of our oil supplies come from this area. I do not believe that Russia would ever interfere with shipping except in the event of a global war so the threat of Russian naval intervention is a distant one rather than a present one. 
I believe 1 should mention in this very brief review 2 factors influencing SinoSoviet relations, lt is very obvious that the Soviet Union has no wish to see China expand her influence in Africa or Asia. This is a fear shared with Russia by the Western powers. It is interesting to note what  Mr Som  Dutt, an Indian, wrote in an Indian publication entitled 'Security and Defence of South and South East Asia'. He referred to the growing influence of China and Russia in South and South East Asia. He stated that a fear about security does exist and that it concerns an awakened and determined China, aspiring to achieve a super-power status. Doctor T. B. Millar of the Australian National University, writing in a publication of the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre entitled Soviet Policies in the Indian Ocean area', referred to Russia's fear of China expanding her influence. He referred to the fact, which is often overlooked, that the Indian Ocean is a seaway between the western and eastern parts of Russia. He went on to state thai for the indefinite future the Indian Ocean will remain the major mari time thoroughfare between the eastern and western parts of the Soviet Union. He also stated: 
The Soviet Union is aware of the strong fears of China held in South and South East Asia, and it is entirely logical that she should seek to exploit these in order to limit Chinese influence in the area, increase her own influence and with a minimum outlay strengthen the military capacity of the states on China's southern boundary at a time when the Sino-Soviet border is under dangerous tension. 
So we have from 2 authorities a recognition that Russia is concerned with China. It is also to be noted that at the time of the Chinese aggression against India Russia quickly began supplying India with arms to counter this aggression. Russia obviously has a fear of China expanding its influence into the Indian Ocean. One point I mention in passing is that the land communications between the 2 parts of Russia are very weak. The trans-Siberian railway passes within a few miles of the Chinese border and the road, which is a poor road, is for a great part of the year closed because of ice. Therefore Russia in the event of any conflict with China may well want to use the Indian Ocean as a thoroughfare for the movement of supplies to the eastern part of Russia. 
Two points remain to be mentioned. The first point in connection with the Russian interest in the Indian Ocean is that a settlement in the Middle East would assist Russia because there is very little doubt that she is most anxious to see the Suez Canal opened. This would allow the free movement of Russian naval ships between the Mediterranean and Indian oceans. Russia's presence may well become of some concern to us if and when the Suez Canal is opened. At the moment Russian naval ships have to make a long haul from the Baltic Sea down into the Indian Ocean or from Murmansk round to Vladivostok. That Russia's interest in the Indian Ocean is real can be judged by her recent agreement with Mauritius. Although facilities on Mauritius are mainly for fishing fleets there has been a regular movement of Russian naval ships through Mauritius, an island which is situated in a very strategic position. 
When looking at all these developments I think we have to keep our feet on the ground. The Russian presence in the Indian Ocean is not a large one and has no real naval capability. The number of Russian ships in the Indian Ocean is variously estimated between 12 and 18. Most of these are hydrographic ships, tankers and supply ships and it would appear that the number of Russian naval fighting vessels in the Indian Ocean at any one time is no more than one or two. But nevertheless there is a presence and a presence is something which we cannot ignore. That this interest is real and will continue we must accept. We must examine it calmly and without emotion. We must also consider how our policies should be devised to safeguard our own national interests and those of friendly powers. At all times we must consider providing a countervailing force to that of Russia. We would not do this alone but in conjunction wilh other powers such as the United Kingdom and France, which has some interest in the Indian Ocean area, and perhaps the United States, which is showing an interest in the area although not a very strong one. 
I do not mean a large naval force but a force that is credible and which countries of the region will know exists and which therefore will lead them not to become completely impressed by a Russian presence, with a complete vacuum being left by countries which still have interests in this area. When I speak of a counterveiling force I am speaking not only of a military or naval force. We must consider how we can act diplomatically, economically and socially to counter Soviet influence and interests in areas vital to us and, indeed, vital to those countries with whom we have friendly relations. 
Before I conclude I think it is worth my mentioning just 2 other points. The first is that history teaches us that a good proportion of British defence and diplomatic effort in India during the 19th century and the early part of the 20th century was devoted to containing Russian pressure southward when she, as a land power, was anxious to extend her influences by pressure from the land. This move of naval forces is a new development in the extension of Russian power. 
Australia's task is to produce policies which will influence countries in the area, either alone or preferably in conjunction with others, as a counter to Russian influence. We must always remember that our will to influence people must be based upon our capacity and resources, lt is useless for us to think of exercising a wide ranging influence such as that exercised by the United Kingdom. It must be related to what we can do and our job will be to determine policies which will provide that influence in areas most vital to us. This, as I see it, is the job of Australian foreign policy making in the near future. We must also be interested, as we indeed are at the moment, in strengthening our forces and our capacity on our western seaboard. Work is going ahead to establish a naval base at Cockburn Sound, the Learmonth air station is being improved, and at the moment an Army team is looking at the possibility of establishing an Army base in Western Australia. This must be a part of our rethinking because of the Russian move into this area. 
It is not my objective to make the Russians shiver. No doubt  Senator Hendrickson  welcomes them. I am pointing out the facts of the situation; I. am not trying to make the Russians or anyone else shiver. I am trying to do this logically and without emotion and if the honourable senator wants to introduce a lot of erroneous remarks that is his responsibility and not mine. I do not want to make the Russians shiver. I conclude by saying that the Russian naval capacity at the moment does not represent a major capability but nonetheless it is one of which we must take account, and we must base our policies upon a continuing and perhaps larger naval presence in the Indian Ocean in the future. 
la directing a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate I refer to the report that  Mr Bryant,  the member for Wills in another place, has been banned from taking part in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign later this month because of his views on Cambodia, ls this just another example of the double moral standards practised by the leaders of the Moratorium Campaign, including members of the Australian Labor Party, who demand the right to break laws that offend their conscience but deny the right of others to hold conscientious views contrary to their own? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI cannot make any comment in relation to the instance referred to by the honourable senator, nor have T the mental capacity to understand the machinations of the people who associate themselves with this type of moratorium. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister received a further request from citrus growers in Western Australia for orange juice to be provided to school children when desired in lieu of free milk? If so, will the Minister give further consideration to this request? I may add that orange juice might be more suitable to children who live in areas where it is very difficult to transport milk. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence in a position to provide any information as to when a decision on the establishment of an Army base in Western Australia can be expected? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would prefer this question to be put on notice so that I may get a comprehensive answer from the Minister for Defence. I appreciate the honourable senator's very real interest in that area as he comes from Western Australia, but in truth it would be wise to put the question on notice so that I may get a detailed reply from the Minister. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is it a fact that  Mr Young,  the Federal Secretary of the Australian Labor Party and now appointed to administer the Victorian branch of the ALP is a graduate of the Minto Marxist school controlled by the Communist Party of New South Wales? 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When can a decision on the proposed establishment of an army base in Western Australia be expected. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Many factors must be taken into account in the present overall review of the requirements for additional accommodation for Army battalions after Vietnam. Some aspects of the review have been completed but others are still under study. A decision will be made as soon as possible after completion of the full review. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, relates to a recent Tariff Board report and the reaction to it of some interested parties who have enjoyed a high level of protection. I ask the Minister for an assurance that the Government will not bow to pressure or in any way weaken the traditional independence of the Tariff Board. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONTraditionally, the Tariff Board produces an annual report which is tabled in the Senate. The normal procedure of the Government at the Executive level is, through the Minister for Trade and Industry, to examine the annual report and to give any consideration necessary to the recommendations, proposals or propositions contained in the report.I do not think it would be proper to make any judgments or comments about the contents of the report and what the Government may decide to do about it. I tabled the latest annual report of the Tariff Board in the Senate some weeks ago and it is now a document of the Senate. Although the Senate did not do so at the time, it was completely within its competence to take note of the report and to debate it. 
I was interested in a comment made earlier in this debate by my friend  Senator Cant.  If I understood him correctly, he suggested that some thought was being given to making Learmonth airport the alternative airport for Perth. I do not know from where  Senator Cant  got this information. 
I am not aware of any plans to make Learmonth the alternate airport. The reasons against such a move are the very reasons mentioned by  Senator Cant.  Learmonth is some 850 miles from Perth. Without doubt the Learmonth airport when completed will be able to take the heaviest aircraft. My understanding is that the Department of Civil Aviation is carefully considering Kalgoorlie as the alternate airport. As  Senator Cant  knows so well, Kalgoorlie is very close to the east-west air route and therefore is ideally situated for this purpose. That is only a minor point but I thought it worth mentioning because I do not believe that Learmonth would be a suitable alternate. 
This Air Navigation (Charges) Bill is before the Senate as part of the Government's policy that as far as possible the users of facilities should pay for them. In the past this also was Australian Labor Party policy. I can recall having quoted speeches by the then Postmaster-General, whom I think was  Senator Cameron,  and by  Mr Calwell  when the Labor Government in 1947 or 1948 increased postal charges. In effect they then said that the policy was that the users should pay for the service. The Government accepts this as being a reasonably sound policy. I suppose support for this policy depends on whether one is in government or in opposition. It does not matter whether this is  a  philosophical or a practical point of view; I believe there is merit in the argument. 
The fact of life in regard to air services is that the cost of the services and facilities provided by the Department of Civil Aviation in order to maintain safety and efficiency in aircraft operations is increasing. The cost is increasing together with the growing sophistication of aircraft. The newer aircraft require more sophisticated equipment in order to maintain safety and efficiency. One has only to look at what is happening because of the introduction of the jumbo jet, the 747, to emphasise this point. This is placing a heavy financial burden on the Department of Civil Aviation which continually has to provide improved services and facilities. 
The figures relating to the cost of aviation facilities are quite interesting. In the last 3 years up to June 1970 the Commonwealth Government spent SI 05m on airports and aviation facilities. In Western Australia, alone the figure was $5 .7m. Much of that has been due to the introduction of modern jet aircraft by MacRobertsonMiller Airlines which has required the upgrading of navigation facilities at many airports in the State. In the last 3 years the annual cash cost of maintaining and operating airports and airway facilities and services in Western Australia has risen from $1.76m to $2. 3m, representing an increase of about 30 per cent. Those figures exclude depreciation, interest and administration charges. Let  me take one airport, namely, that at Port Hedland. It is one of the major airports in Western Australia. The number of passengers passing through it has increased from, in round figures, 8,000 in 1964-65 to more than 51,000 in 1969-70. The cost of operating and maintaining that airport has risen from $165,000 in 1968-69 to $420,000 in 1969-70. 
In 1969-70 the revenue obtained from air navigation charges in Western Australia amounted to only S500.000, or approximately 20 per cent of the cost of operating and maintaining the facilities. So, in one State alone there is a considerable or significant gap between the revenue and the costs. As other speakers have mentioned, the total estimated revenue in the current financial year is about 525m and the cost of operating the services and facilities is in the vicinity of $85m, leaving  a  gap of S60m. So, despite the increase in air navigation charges, a most significant gap remains.  Senator Cant  raised some interesting points when he was arguing that various proportions of the cost should be charged to defence, national development and so on. If we are to argue along those lines, surely we have to argue that the cost of runways, the cost of air terminals and all the other costs involved in air transport in Australia should also be related in some proportions to those various fields. Therefore, I am inclined to believe that, whilst his argument is interesting, in fact it is rather academic. 
This increase in air navigation charges is not a serious cost burden on the airlines. Some figures that are available indicate that for a full year the increase in revenue as a result of the 10 per cent increase in air navigation charges would amount to $850,000. If we relate that to the estimated airline passenger revenue for 1970-71 of approximately $180m, we find that the additional charges that will be payable this year will represent less than one-fifth of 1 per cent of that revenue. In a full year they will represent an increase of less than one-half of I per cent of that revenue. Those figures do not justify any increase in air fares. International air services have come in for some comment. The 10 per cent increase in charges will raise the amount payable in respect of a large international aircraft of the Boeing 707 or DCS type by about $45. On the average passenger loadings on such flights, that represents about 70c per passenger. These are not substantial figures which alone would justify an increase in fares. 
The argument is put that air navigation or landing charges in Australia are higher than the average overseas. I do not think this argument has been put forward seriously in the Senate today. As I understood  Senator Cant  and  Senator Byrne,  they both argued that there was a case for higher charges in respect of international aircraft rather than in respect of domestic aircraft. But it has been put forward and argued - I have actually heard it argued - that our charges for international aircraft are amongst the highest in the world. It is very difficult to make comparisons or to find a basis for comparison between charges in various countries because so many factors operate. I have here some figures which are of interest. When they are related to the movements of aircraft in the various countries, I do not believe that the criticism which has been levelled at us - namely, that our charges are too high - is justified. 
In Australia there is only 1 charge, and that is the air navigation or landing charge. For an aircraft of the Boeing 707 or DCS type, the air navigation or landing charges in Sydney, including this 10 per cent increase, are $987. In Paris the air navigation or landing charges are $270, but other charges which have to be paid in respect of each movement amount of $482, making a total of $752. San Francisco is right at the other end of the scale. There the total air navigation or landing charges are only $43. In Rome the total charges are $270. But that is only part of the story. In 1969, for example, the number of aircraft movements at Sydney was about 82.000, made up of 71,000 domestic movements and 11,000 international movements. At Chicago the number of movements was 700,000: at the New York (Kennedy) Airport it was 400,000; and at San Francisco it was 300,000. 
If my arithmetic is correct, the figure for Sydney represents a daily total of 225. Many of these movements are of smaller aircraft of the F27 type. The comparable figure for San Francisco is 871. That would represent, in the main, movements of larger types of jet aircraft. What these comparisons prove is that the facilities that are provided - presumably much the same facilities are provided at San Francisco and Sydney - are being utilised to a far greater extent at San Francisco than at Sydney or other Australian airports. Sydney would have the greatest number of movements of Australian airports. Therefore the overall revenue at San Francisco for the same type of facilities would be very much greater than at Sydney. Presumably the gap between revenue and operating costs would be a great deal smaller. What 1 have said does not prove very much, but it does illustrate the difficulty in making some comparisons of conditions as between one country and another. 
I believe it is fair to say, taking into account all the factors I have mentioned, that our charges are not high by overseas standards. Perhaps a better comparison would be of fares. Again I issue a warning that various operating factors make comparisons difficult. Nevertheless, fares give us a basis of comparison and we should not ignore them. The first class air fare from Canberra to Sydney, a distance of 154 miles, is $11.90; the economy fare is $10.10. The first class air fare from Pittsburgh to Harrisburgh, a distance of 172 miles, is SI 7.80; the economy class fare is $14 20. So that I will not be thought to be loading the comparisons I will give some further examples. 
The first class air fare from Canberra to Melbourne, a distance of 300 miles, is S26.70 and the economy class fare is $22.60. From Milan to Rome first class costs $26.40 and economy class $23.60. The fares in each case almost balance. The cost of first class air travel from Adelaide to Perth. 1,380 miles, is $89.70, and the economy class fare is $72.30. By air from Calcutta to Karachi is 1,360 miles, almost the same distance as from Adelaide to Perth. The first class air fare is $103.40 and the economy class fare is $79.80. lt is clear that by world standards Australian air fares are not unduly high and compare favourably with those of other countries. 
Consideration should also be given to the benefits Australian airlines receive through the expenditure of taxpayers' money over a wide network of aerodromes and sophisticated, high standard systems. Partly because of those systems Australian airlines have a safety record unequalled in almost every other part of the world. Again I stress that comparisons are difficult because conditions vary so much between countries. However, it is true to say that the navigation and other facilities provided for Australian airline operators are unequalled in any other part of the world. The Australian airlines receive through the expenditure of substantial sums of taxpayers' money benefits which enable them to provide for air travellers in Australia a standard of safety and efficiency well up to world standards. 
The growth rate in Australian aviation in past years has been truly remarkable. For domestic air travel it has been about 15 per cent annually, and for international air travel about 16 per cent annually. This is one factor that has enabled the airlines to maintain fares at a reasonable standard. The Minister in his second reading speech pointed out that it is the Government's responsibility to keep within reasonable bounds the gap between costs and revenue. The alternative to charging the users of the air navigation facilities is to charge the taxpayers for the gap. Indeed, they are meeting a significant proportion of the. gap now. I believe it is common justice that the users of the facilities should be obliged to keep the gap within reasonable bounds. On the whole, increases in air navigation charges are not quite keeping pace with increases in the costs of servicing and maintaining the expensive equipment. 
The Minister has indicated that a working group has been formed to study t he.COStS and revenue of the Department of Civil Aviation.- lt has various terms of reference. The group is comprised of representatives of the Department of Civil Aviation, the Treasury and domestic and international airlines, lt is a fairly representative group, lt has completed work on the first 2 terms of reference, but not on the third term. I think it is to the credit of the Minister and his Department that (hey are prepared to have these aspects examined by a representative group in order to find the best and fairest possible means of the Department's achieving the desired end so that civil aviation will not become a complete burden upon the taxpayers. 

 Senator Byrne moved on behalf of :he Australian Democratic Labor Party an amendment which 1 find interesting. 1 cannot say that 1 am prepared lo support it because I would not be so bold as to suggest that charges imposed on international and domestic airlines for the use of Australian aerodromes and navigation facilities should be identical for aircraft of the same type. However, 1 believe that the suggestion contained in the proposed amendment should be referred to the working group. It may already have studied such a suggestion. I believe it is asking too much of us to seek our opinion on the suggestion without the advantage of more facts than have been presented to us. I suggest to the Minister that the working group should examine the proposal put forward by the Democratic Labor Party. I believe there is some justification for the argument that charges should be identical. Some people may argue that this would interfere with the growth in international air traffic, but it is a fact of life that the growth rate of international air traffic is about 16 per cent a year. The extra charges to be incurred are minimal bearing in mind the number of passengers carried and the distances flown. 1 have some figures which tend to prove my point and I will conclude by citing them. I think they are significant. They are certainly an answer to those who claim that the proposed charges will place an undue cost burden upon the industry. The charge for a Boeing 707 or DC8 type aircraft landing or taking off at Sydney will be increased by $494 as from 1st January 1971. This is equivalent to the Sydney to San Francisco economy class fare, or 80 per cent of the Sydney to London economy class fare. This is only a small additional cost item for the airlines. It might be of interest to the Senate to note also that the total air navigation charges for a DC9 flight between Melbourne and Sydney as from 1st January will be $71. That includes the 10 per cent increase. This is equivalent to the fares of fewer than 3 economy class passengers. On this very dense route, that represents less than 3 per cent of revenue earned on a normal flight. 
I cannot accept the argument advanced by honourable senators opposite that the increased charges will impose a great cost burden upon the airlines. It is a burden which all of us perhaps regret, but I believe it is an inevitable one. I do not believe that it is justice that the taxpayer should have to bear the full cost not only of providing the ever-increasingly sophisticated equipment and facilities thai are required but also of bearing the operating losses which will inevitably occur in the provision of these facilities and services. While 1 suppose all of us regret increased charges, we are living in a world where the facts of economic life are paramount. The facts of economic life here are that unless these charges are met to a degree - not to a major degree - by the users of the services, they will have to be met by the taxpayers, many of whom never use the services. 
I suppose that Australians are perhaps fortunate in that they have so many airports of high standard throughout the country. I do not know any country of comparable size which has so many international airports. 1 sometimes think that we have gone to extremes in that we are trying to provide too many international airports. By doing that we are playing up to the vanity of the States because apparently there is some prestige value in having an international airport. My view, which I have stated before, is that international airports should be provided only at points of entry into Australia. However, we have to live with the present situation. I express my concern at the ever-increasing cost in Australia of providing, and of continually updating and improving, airports and facilities for modern and sophisticated aircraft. This cost has to be met. I believe that there is justice in the argument that those who use these services and who benefit from them should at least in some small way pay for them 
Therefore, I support the Bill. Whilst I find the amendment an interesting one and one which I believe should he examined, 1 am not prepared to express an opinion that it is desirable unless all the facts are known. I have suggested to the Minister that this matter should be examined by the working group and that the report should be made available shortly and certainly before the next Budget is presented. 
 I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has he noted the rejection by Peking and Hanoi of President Nixon's latest peace offer as a hoax and a deception? Will the Minister seek from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate as a matter of public interest enlightenment as  to whether  the Labor Party agrees with this rejection? If it does not agree, will he inquire whether the Labor Party will organise a moratorium to protest against the rejection? 
I have seen, as we all have seen, Hanoi's reaction to and rejection of the Nixon proposals. As to the Australian Labor Parly, it will have to accept responsibility for its own behaviour. The people will be the judges. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and the Minister for Immigration. I refer to reports that foot and mouth disease is rampant in Lebanon. Do migrants from Lebanon enter Australia by air? If so, what special precautions are being taken to ensure that the disease is not brought into Australia? If the reports be true, has any consideration been given to bringing migrants from that area by sea? 
Let me assure honourable senators opposite that they will have the opportunity to vote. 
Tonight, as far as I am concerned. I listened in April, I listened in May, I listened yesterday and I listened tonight to more nonsense and more stupidity from the Opposition in relation to rural industries than one could ever imagine possible. None of the honourable senators opposite would know the difference between a hairy goat and a woolly sheep. Yet they stand up here tonight and they have stood up during the last couple of months- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! There are far too many interjections. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  -  Senator Sim,  I suggest to you that you address your remarks to the Chair. 
I am wondering whether this is a kindergarten. In order to appreciate the true attitude of the Australian Labor Party towards rural industries let us examine some of the statements which have been made by its leaders. My colleague,  Senator Young,  quoted the remarks of  Mr Berinson,  who is a member of the other place. I wish to quote the remarks of a greater authority on the subject. I have quoted his remarks before and I will quote them again. I refer to  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition. 
In an article which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herlad on 21st August 1965. The article is headed Concentrate on better cities, says Whitlam'. It states: 
Too much attention is being paid to the wishes and needs of rural areas, and too little to the needs of the cities, the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  said last night. 
Cities and civilisation go hand in hand', he told the Sydney division of the Australian Planning Institute in Sydney last night. 
By derivation, civilised men are those who live in cities - pagans are those who live in the country'. 
As my colleague,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  has informed me, no election was to be held then. Those are  Mr Whitlam's  thoughts on the people who live in country areas. 
On 21st August 1965. I am quoting from an article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. Because an election is to be held this year the Australian Labor Party is showing a new-found interest in the problems of the rural industries of Australia. In the 'Australian Financial Review1 of 19fh February 1970,  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Austraiian Council of Trade Unions, is reported as having had something to say about this matter. Yesterday we heard  Senator O'Byrne  weeping crocodile tears - they were streaming down his face - about the cost price squeeze. What did  Mr Hawke  have to say about the matter? I am not smearing  Mr Hawke,  as  Senator Milliner  alleged some time ago. He said that whenever  Mr Hawke  is criticised he is smeared. The greatest smearers of ail sit on the Opposition side of the chamber.  Mr Hawke  is reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' as having said: 
The cost price squeeze argument - and this is what we are here today about - amounted to little more  than  a pea  for  maintenance of a rural production structure which includes a substantial number of inefficient marginal producers without whom we would all be better off. 
Let us hear the views of the Opposition on this matter. Have honourable senators opposite criticised  Mr Whitlam  or  Mr Hawke?  Not one of them has criticised these people. Not one of them has said that he disagrees with  Mr Whitlam  or  Mr Hawke.  I admit that there are problems facing our rural industries. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber appreciate these problems because many of us are engaged in rural industries and have spent a lifetime in them. Not one honourable senator opposite has spent any of his lifetime in a rural industry. 
Not one honourable senator opposite has spent any of his lifetime in a rural industry. Many honourable senators on this side of the chamber have spent their whole lives in these industries. My colleagues and I know that problems exist. We know this because some of us arc victims of them. But it is not going to solve these problems merely to cry in this place and engage in cheap electoral propaganda. 
Why have these problems occurred? We have heard from  Senator Poyser  from Geelong, a great authority on this subject about rural industries, about the European Economic Community and about the sugar industry, lt is a matter for the United Kingdom whether it enters the European Economic 
Community. Let us understand one thing and understand it clearly: The historical basis for Australia's rural industries was the production of cheap food for the United Kingdom and Europe. Our production has been orientated towards the needs of these markets. But the needs of these markets have changed dramatically and drastically, through no fault of the Australian Government. There is nothing any Australian Government, whether it be Liberal-Country Party or Labor Party, could do about this matter. 
The countries of the European Economic Community have indulged themselves in what I believe is an unsound policy of agricultural self sufficiency. From being importers of wheat they have become exporters of wheat. From being importers of butter and other dairy products they have become exporters. Indeed, not only have they become exporters but they are also dumping those commodities on the world market at ruinous prices. The result is that markets which Australia formerly had no longer exist. The countries of the European Economic Community have built up tremendous surpluses of dairy products and they are increasing at an alarming rate from year to year. From being importers of sugar they have become self sufficient and will soon be exporters. What could any Australian Government do about this deliberate policy of the countries of the European Economic Community? If the United Kingdom enters the Common Market it will enter on the conditions laid down by the European Economic Community. There is nothing any Australian Government can do. If the United Kingdom enters it will have to take these products from the European Economic Community. Australia's traditional market for its sugar, dairy products and wheat will decline. This is a fact of life which no Australian Government can do anything about. The Commonwealth Government has done all it can to point out to the United Kingdom and the countries of the European Economic Community the position which will be faced by the rural producers of Australia if the United Kingdom enters the European Economic Community. 
I heard  Senator Poyser  ask what the Government has done to find other markets. This is the most stupid thing I have ever heard in my life. How could the Government find overnight other markets in the world to take our products? 
This is about the most stupid thing I have ever heard  Senator O'Bryne  say and, goodness me, I have heard him say many things in this chamber which defy description.  Senator O'Byrne  believes that all of our problems will be solved if we recognise China. Mao Tsetung has sucked him in, as I told him yesterday, and he has sucked him in in more ways than one. China does not want these products. If she wanted them she would buy them from Australia because China will buy where she can best. This is a policy which China is herself engaged in. She will buy from the best market, regardless of whether she is recognised. The Chinese are pragmatists. The fact is that these products cannot be sold on other markets because they are not wanted. This is not a problem which, as honourable senators opposite believe in their ignorance, involves only Australia. 
We have an interjection from another great authority on agriculture.  Senator Murphy  would not know a hairy goat from a woolly sheep. He would not know what end of a cow the milk comes out. The fact is that every agricultural country in the world is suffering from the same problems as Australia because the world no longer requires many of the products which Australia has produced for a market which is now being closed. The simple fact of the matter is that we have to re-orientate our thinking. We have to change our patterns of production. This is not something which is new. It has happened before in industry and it has happened before in agriculture. We have to change our pattern of production to meet the demands of the markets of the world. We can do nothing else. 
Our friend from the industrial areas of Adelaide apparently has all the answers. He asks what we are doing to solve the problem. I have listened to the Opposition for months and months and months on this subject and it has never put forward one constructive suggestion. All it is trying to do is to appeal to the emotions of the primary producers of Australia who are in economic difficulties at present. They are in economic difficulties not only because of a cost price squeeze, which is only one factor; they are in economic difficulties also because of the change in the patterns of marketing throughout the world. If we look at the figures for rises in costs in Australia as shown in material published by the International Monetary Fund we find that Australia has had one of the lowest rates of inflation of any developed country over the last 1 2 years. 
What are you doing about them, other than crying and crying in the hope that somebody will believe you? We have had one of the lowest rates of inflation of any developed country in the world over a period of 12 years. Only the United States of America and Canada have had lower rates of inflation, and the difference has been a matter of only I per cent, 2 per cent or 3 per cent over this period. The problem that we face arises not from inflation but from the fact that industrial countries have been able to sell on the world markets; they have not been able to sell at higher prices. The plain fact of life in that the world, for whatever reason, is not prepared to pay higher prices for agricultural products. This is the position in which we find ourselves. But having found ourselves in this position, what do we do about it? 
The Australian Labor Party started off with some haywire plan that the problems of primary industries should be referred to the Australian Agricultural Council. That suggestion was made by  Senator Wilkinson  5 months ago. Apparently honourable senators opposite have changed their minds now. They have realised the stupidity of that suggestion. The last thing we heard was that they wanted the matter referred to a Standing Committee. It would be completely out of order to discuss the stupidity of that proposal. If this matter is  referred to a standing committee of the  Senate, .which I suggest would be completely ill-equipped to examine a matter so complex and so widespread as this, it would be 5 years before the committee could come up with anything constructive, if it was able to come up with anything at all. It would be necessary to bring experts in the wool industry from overseas to appear before the committee because, according to  Senator Poyser,  there are some buyer problems in the wool industry. This shows complete ignorance. 
The problem of the wool industry is. as much as anything, the falling price of synthetics, wool's major competitor, and the fact that the world demand for woollen products is nol as great as it was some years ago. A problem is that synthetics have not maintained their price. The price has fallen from about 150 francs to 50 francs within a matter of a few years and the mills will not pay a higher price for wool, which is the competitive fibre. This is a fact of economic life which will not be solved by referring the matter to a Standing Committee of the Parliament. 1 have not time to develop all the arguments that I wished to develop, but if honourable senators opposite will listen to what I am saying - I realise that they cannot understand what I am talking about - I believe there is a strong case for the establishment in Australia of a rural industries board. 
 I. am stating my proposition. I am saying what I believe. I will say, for  Senator Murphy's  edification, that what the Minister proposed is about 100 per cent better than anything we have heard from the Opposition. I believe that there must be an all-embracing inquiry into the problems of the rural industry and that one industry cannot be dealt with in isolation. 
I do not agree with your proposition because it is based on ignorance. I am suggsting that there is a strong case for the establishment of a rural industries board which would, on references from the Government, examine the problems of the rural industries and relate them one to another, a board which  in time would develop an expertise which would win the confidence of all sections of industry. 1 make this suggestion as a constructive proposal. 
As members of the Australian Labor Party are constantly asking questions which seem to denigrate the Phantom bomber, 1 ask the Minister for Air whether it is true that the purchase of that aircraft has long been advocated by the Australian Labor Party. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  referred to the melodrama of  Senator Murphy's  speech.  Senator Murphy  reminded me of a sham actor. He hoped to substitute for logic and fact in his speech a lot of sound and fury, banging his fist on the table, throwing his papers about and waving his arms around. I suggest that that behaviour is no proper substitute for logic, and less of a substitute for facts.  Senator Murphy's  speech, which lasted for about 15 or 20 minutes, contained a series of sweeping allegations completely unsupported by one fact. At one stage, in a moment of high drama, he shouted: 'Why do you not take action?' 
On what? On a series of sweeping and wild allegations, completely unsupported by facts?  Senator Murphy  did not produce one figure which showed that all his allegations of price rigging, collusive tendering and so forth had had an impact upon the Australian cost structure. 
Perhaps it has.  Senator Devitt  will have his opportunity to produce facts and figures to support that claim, because his Leader could not. He did not produce one supporting fact or figure. What is the position in Australia? As the Leader of the Government in the Senate said, increases in weekly earnings over a long period have been very much greater than price increases. For example, over the last 4 years weekly earnings have averaged annually an increase of 7 per cent, whereas the average annual price increase was 3 per cent. What part of that 3 per cent increase has been caused by price rigging and such practices? If honourable senators opposite wish to claim that those practices are the major cause of price increases - and I presume that they do, because it is the only factor to which  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Cant  have referred, except for some vague academic argument* by  Senator Cant  - they should be prepared to present supporting figures to the Senate. What part of the 3 per cent annual increase in prices has resulted from such practices? 

 Senator Cant said that wages are continually lagging behind prices. I do not think the figures I have cited would support that argument. Indeed, price increases are inclined to follow wage increases, rather than wage increases to follow price increases. Listening to honourable senators opposite one could be led to believe that price increases are a problem which is peculiar to Australia. In fact, it is a world wide problem. No matter how good is the management of our country we cannot escape the consequences of a world wide inflationary trend. The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at the University of Melbourne - an independent body - recently produced a report. The Australian Financial Review' of 26th October quoted from that report, as follows: 
In recent years, however, our rate of price increase has been moderate in comparison with other advanced countries and, in particular, with the countries with which we do most of our trade. 
That is evidence from an independent research body which supports the view I have put. Figures produced by the United Nations support the view that Australia's rate of inflation has been amongst the lowest in the world. France, which is normally considered to be a well managed country, had a .9 per cent greater rate of inflation than Australia, while the rate of inflation in the Netherlands was 1.7 per cent greater. They are figures produced over the past few years, I understand. Figures produced by the International Monetary Fund show that Australia over a considerable period has had one of the lowest average rates of inflation of any advanced country in the world. 
That may be so. Australia has had one of the lowest rates of inflation and price increases in the world. It is of no good asking why or why not. I am giving the simple facts. 
That is so. It is a world wide phenomenon and does not apply only to Australia. By world standards our record has been good. Honourable senators opposite refer to price control, although  Senator Murphy  did not mention it today and  Senator Cant  referred to it only vaguely. I suggest to honourable senators opposite that they cannot name any nontotalitarian country in the world that has managed to control inflation by either wage or price control. I invite them to name one that has managed to control inflation in that way. It is the responsibility of honourable senators opposite to do so, not mine, because 1 am not arguing that price control is the answer. I again invite any honourable senator opposite to name a country that has succeeded in that respect. Under an Australian Labor Government and price control, prices rose at an average annual rate of 10 per cent, so it is clear that price control did not control inflation. 
The Federal Government has no constitutional power to impose price control. To impose price control would require an amendment to the Constitution. 
That is so, and they will deny it again because the Australian people do not want Socialist control. When prices were rising rapidly under a Labor Government, the unemployment rate was between 4 per cent and 5 per cent. Today the unemployment rate is between 1.5 per cent and 1.8 per cent. If I have enough time I will quote a statement on that subject from the report of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. When honourable senators opposite attack the Government we are entitled to ask them what is their policy. Their policy has been - and we can understand it - for unrestrained wage increases and encouragement and support for industrial lawlessness. We now gather that they are supporting claims for a 35-hour week.  Senator Murphy  said that that has nothing to do with this debate. He made his speech and I will make mine. I believe it is hypocritical for members of the Labor Party to attack the Government on increased prices when that Party is advocating a 35-hour week. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  in reply to a question asked recently, said that the introduction of a 35-hour week would cost Australia between $2, 000m and $2, 700m a year. What irresponsibility it is for members of the Labor Party to criticise the Government and then to advocate  a  measure that would result in a cost increase of that magnitude. They are weeping crocodile tears over the economic condition of primary producers in Australia, but let them tell the primary producers what a 35-hour week would mean to them. I believe it would be disastrous to Australia's primary industries. It would sound the death knell for the great majority of them. The parliamentary Leader of the Labor Party  (Mr Whitlam)  should tell primary producers about the 35-hour week plan when he is stumping around rural areas. Let him justify it to the farmers of Australia. 
I do not deny shorter hours when they can be economically justified. They cannot be economically justified now. The Labor Party is criticising the rate of cost increase but proposes to load those costs with a 35-hour week which would cost the Australian community between $2,000m and $2,700m annually. The Labor Party is approaching this matter in a completely irresponsible manner. Where did its members stand in this place when the Australian Workers Union applied for a 35-hour week for the pastoral industry? That application was rejected by the courts, and the union ordered all its members to work only a 35 hour week in complete disregard- 
There is an example of industrial lawlessness. Never mind the pastoral industry. The union ordered its members to work 35 hours a week and resorted to blackmailing graziers who refused to accept that condition. That is the type of tactic which the Labor Party engages in. Let us nail this policy on the Labor Party. The Leader of the Opposition did not want to discuss it, but let us nail it. Honourable senators opposite show complete irresponsibility in relation to price increases. I make no apology for raising this matter. The Labor Party has made many promises. No doubt tonight there will flow from the lips of  Mr Whitlam  promises about urban development, regional development, more water and more sewerage. Name it and they will promise it without regard to how these things are to be financed and without telling the people that they will mean cost increases or deficit financing. The people will not be told. The Labor Party will name these things and will guarantee to provide them. This is the type of irresponsibility we expect from the Opposition as against the responsible government we have had for a number of years in Australia. 
I think it is again worth referring to the quotations 1 have taken from the report prepared by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. It is rather interesting to note that not once in its discussion of the economy and inflation did the Institute mention price rigging and restrictive trade practices as being a factor. It pointed out that the high rate of employment is one of the factors which we have to accept, and with it a rate of inflation of between 2.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent a year. I repeat that this is an independent organisation which has made an assessment of the Australian economy. It dealt with the question of wages and price increases, according to a report in the 'Australian Financial Review' which stated: 
. it is difficult to suggest the extent to which this acceleration of the rate of increase of wages and earnings is due to the pull of high demand for products or the push of demands for high wages. 
Some observers claim that there is in evidence a new aggressiveness behind wage demands, backed up by increased willingness to resort to strikes in order to enforce these claims . . .' lt remains our view nevertheless that an important reason for the quickening that has occurred in the pace of inflation must be attributed to the maintenance in the economy of stronger pressures of demand for products.' 
This is the report of a responsible body which analysed the situation in a responsible economic manner. Not one mention is made throughout this report of price rigging or collusive tendering as being a factor. The Institute dealt objectively and subjectively with the factors of the economy and the factors outside Australia which are having an inflationary effect upon our economy. 
This further observation was made in the report in the 'Australian Financial Review': 
At the same time, we would argue that the real needs of the economy- 
I ask honourable senators to note this -  have been better served in these last  5  years of strong demand, and consequently faster inflation, than they were in either of the two earlier  5-year  periods which contained longer periods of stagnation and recession. 
Not all of us might agree with this statement but it is a view put forward by a responsible organisation. The Institute also makes the point that the new generation of people in business, in trade unions and elsewhere are not in awe of inflation. I conclude by quoting a remark made some 2 3'ears ago by a Labor member of Parliament, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  when speaking in a Budget debate. He said: 
I suggest that there is in Australia an undue obsession with inflation. 
I suggest to honourable members opposite that they should speak to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports about this. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 I wish to speak very briefly about the composition of the Australian Wool Commission. If honourable senators opposite were my sheep I would have them wigged to keep the wool off their eyes because the important thing is, as has been stressed, that we want people with an expertise in marketing and in commerce. 
That is a typical Labor Party, narrow, bigoted attitude. They are suspicious of anybody who has succeeded in life or who has some pecuniary interest. Typically, the Labor Party thinks that such people have some ulterior motive. All I want to say is this, and I speak as a woolgrower: If the Commission is to operate effectively and efficiently with the expertise to do the things it is being empowered to do then we require people with an expertise in commerce, an expertise in business and an expertise in marketing. With great respect to the woolgrower - I am one of them and so are most honourable senators on this side who speak on this measure - there are very few woolgrowers with this expertise. This old fashioned idea that any sort of commission or body which deals with primary industry must be dominated by growers, is something which went out with the ark. 1 repeat that we have to have people with expertise. I fully support this measure. 1 have not heard any argument advanced which would cause me to change my mind. 
 Honourable senators have now heard 3 incredible speeches.  Senator- Cant's  speech was irrelevant to the motion. It was a good Socialist speech full of envy and hate of all those who have succeeded and who have been prepared to risk their capital in development. I do not wish to refer to  Senator Cant's  speech because . it was irrelevant. However he did ask this question not once but twice: 'What opportunity is there to find the will of the people?'. Then he suggested that we have given no opportunity to the people to express their will. This attitude' is - typical of the 3 speeches we have heard. It shows a complete and utter lack of knowledge- of the situation in New Guinea. The people have the machinery to express their will.  First of all, they can do so through the House, of  Assembly, the members of which are elected by the free vote of the people and which represents the people of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. They have a .second opportunity of expressing their' will through the Select Committee on Constitutional Development, which has been for many months visiting .every village and hamlet throughout the Territory of Papua and New Guinea to ascertain' the wishes and will of the people. At the moment- it intends to present a report . in-  March, I- believe. So there are these ?. ways in which the people can express their will. I will come back to this topic in a moment. 
I think  Senator Wright  out of his kindness did the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  a disservice in moving that his time be extended to half an hour, because quite obviously he had the greatest difficulty in speaking for that time.  His  effort was pitiful, to put it in the most kindly way. He not only misquoted the United Nations but he also was forced by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to admit that one of the resolutions provided for consultation with the people to ascertain their freely expressed will. This is exactly the policy of the Australian Government. If the freely expressed will of the people is not for self-government in 1972. what will the Labor Party do? Will it ignore the freely expressed will of the people? I believe it would. In fact,  Mr Whitlam  has already indicated that he has no regard for the freely expressed will of the people.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack read out the charter of the United Nations. Article 76 clearly states: 
. . the freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned . . . 
The policy of the Australian Government is in Complete agreement with the Charter of the United Nations. It says thai self-government will- be granted to the Territory of Papua, and New Guinea immediately the people express a will for selfgovernment. 
can never understand what  Senator Keeffe  is saying, but I, think I heard him correctly because he is always accusingpeople of racism and throwing, around allegations of this sort. I have a theory that those who charge others of being racist have a guilt complex. First of all, he said that Australia should have its own policies on the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Obviously he was not listening to his Leader because his Leader clearly stated that Australia should not have a policy for the Territory of Papua and New Guinea but that it must accept without question the decisions of the United Nation. I interjected and said: Right or wrong?" He replied: 'Yes, right or wrong.' Although I do not know whether  Senator Murphy's  view is that of the Australian Labor Party - it is not the view of  Senator Keeffe  - it is that Australia must not have a policy with regard to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea; the policy we adopt should be the wish and the will of the United Nations. 

 Senator Murphy went on to say that Australia was inhibited at international conferences because of fear of criticism of our policies in regard to the Territory. I asked  Senator Murphy  to give some instances of this and., after stumbling and bumbling for a few moments, he plucked one out of his hat and that was the conference on human rights. But, of course, he gave no evidence that Australia did not support resolutions moved because of its fear of being criticised over its policy on Papua and New Guinea, lt mav well he that Australia did not support these resolutions because it recognised the hypocrisy of them. I would like to know how many of the 100 nations attending the conference respect human rights. How many of the African countries respect human rights? Presumably the views expressed by  Senator Murphy  tonight are Labor Party policy, that Australia will no* have a will of its own but will bow down and accept the policies of the United Nations. I repudiate that. I am not prepared to accept the policies of the United Nations in relation to these matters. I believe that the freely stated policy of the Australian Government is that self-government will be granted to the Territory when the people there freely express their desire to have selfgovernment. 
By opposing this resolution tonight the Labor Party clearly states that it does not believe in democracy, does not believe in the freely expressed will of the people. Indeed,  Senator Keeffe  started off by saying that the policies must be right, humane and Christian and that this resolution was a negation of all things that are democratic. T. must say that this view is very perverse. It may be a negation of all the things that are democratic to listen fo the freely expressed will of the people, in the view of the Labor Party. From what we have been reading about the Labor Party this is probably so. f would like  Senator Keeffe  to explain in simple terms, if he can, how the policy of the Australian Government of listening to the freely expressed will of the people is a negation of all things that are democratic. 
-I would be most interested to bear you make a statement. Now we come to allegations of colonialism which were freely bandied around tonight by  Senator Murphy  and others. But, of course, the new colonialist is  Mr Whitlam.  He is acting like the old white colonialist. He does not believe that the people should have a freely expressed will. Indeed during his last visit to the Territory one of the indigenous leaders referred to him as' This Tourist'.  Mr Whitlam  is recorded as having said that a Labor government would not necessarily accept the findings of the Select Committee on Constitutional Development. This is in line, of course, with  Senator Keeffe's  views. In other words, a Labor government is not necessarily prepared to accept a report which contains the freely expressed wish of the people of the Territory. But in a moment of great openheartedness  Mr Whitlam  said that it would pay attention to its findings but would not necessarily give a blank cheque undertaking. 
 That is a good comparison. But the point I want to make is that  Mr Whitlam  accused the Australian Government of not allowing the people of Papua and New Guinea through the House of Assembly to freely decide their own policies. We were accused of some type of veto over them. We were accused of being colonialists. Yet here we have  Mr Whitlam  saying that he is not necessarily prepared to accept the expressed wish of the people. What hypocrisy this is. 

 Mr Paulus Arek, who is  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Constitutional Development, apparently has some fears, and very rightly so. I believe he is one of the best known of the indigenous leaders. He said that he told  Mr Whitlam  that the Australian Labor Party should respect the wishes of the people on the question of self-government. This new colonialist and his colonialist supporters on the other side of the chamber are not prepared to accept the freely expressed wish of the people. They chatter about democracy. They do not even understand what democracy means. As  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack pointed out, a Socialist does not believe in democracy. He believes in a one party state. That is a fact. In fact, at the 1921 conference of the Australian Labor Party that was clearly stated. 
I am not quite sure whether members of the Australian Labor Party know where they are going.  Mr Whitlam  expressed the view that the Territory was ready for self government. But he was accompanied on the tour by that great genius,  Mr Cameron,  who had a lot to say on industrial matters. Apparently  Mr Cameron  is not so sure that the Territory is ready for self government because, according to the Melbourne 'Age' of 15th January this year, he said that a Labor government would not hand over the area of industrial relations to the House of Assembly at Port Moresby when it granted self government in 1972 but would first make sure that proper wage standards were established. So he is not prepared to hand over all power at the time of self government. 
 My colleague may well be right.  Mr Whitlam  had something to say about this matter. He was quoted in the Sydney Morning Herald' of 13th January 1 97 1 as saying: 
We  believe New  Guineans  should decide what wages should  be  paid in New Guinea and what wages should  be  paid on  plantation!!. 
It is quite obvious that the Labor Party's Spokesmen on these affairs do not agree. One believes that the Territory should have self government immediately, and the other believes that it should not. One believes that the Labor Party should decide on wages, and the other believes that New Guineans should decide on wages. So I suggest that the embarrassment of members of the Labor Party tonight is well founded because they simply do not know where they are going. 
-I have not time to quote  Mr Morrison's  statements, some of which also were contradiction of  Mr Whilam's.  After  Mr Whitlam  had expressed satisfaction with a certain meeting,  Mr Morrison  had some doubt that the people knew where they were going. So there is some contradiction between the statements of the various members of the party that toured New Guinea. 
I want to come back to the United Nations because the whole of the case, such as it was. put by  Senator Murphy  was based on the United Nations. He quoted parts of resolutions that were passed, on so on. In the debate that took place in April last year I quoted a resolution of the United Nations which had just been passed and which I believe bears repeating because it relates to the matter of the expressed will of the people, which is the Australian Government's policy. I have put forward the argument, as have other speakers from this side of the chamber, that the policy of the Australian Government is completely in line with that of the United Nations. Clause 3 of the resolution that was passed by the General Assembly of the United Nations stated: 
The General Assembly . . . calls upon the administering power to take all necessary steps to ' transfer full powers in the executive' and legislative branches of government to elected representatives of the people, in accordance with the freely expressed wishes of the peoples. 
I emphasise those last few words. Tonight members of the Labor ' Party  are going to vote against- a motion that affirms that policy; they are going to oppose a motion passed by the United Nations,  -a  body whose decisions  Senator Murphy  said we must accept: right or wrong. But I note that  Senator Murphy  and the other members of the Labor Party are rather selective in this respect, because they have never accepted the decisions of the United Nations wilh regard. "'to the admission of Red China. .' 
I have a report of a statement that was made' very recently 'by  Mr Adnam  Raouf. an Iraqi member of the- mission now touring the Territory. I do not imagine that -an' Iraqi citizen has any great love for' colonialism. :. '   
Yes. sand he is- a member of the visiting mission; Only the other day in the Territory he -assured Papuans that the United Nations- had - no intention of pushing them into something against their will. So, again the Labor Party's policy is in direct conflict with that of the United Nations because the Labor Party wishes to push Papuans and New Guineans into something, whether they want it or not, in 1972. In all the humbug-- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired.. 
This is proving to be an amazing debute, lt was initiated us a matter of urgency by the Opposition over the signature of the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Murphy.  Yet for a considerable part of this afternoon there have been only about 4 Opposition members in the chamber and a couple of them have been showing complete disinterest in proceedings, This indicates the degree of urgency they place on this matter and their interest in it. The motion moved by  Senator 
Murphy as a matter of great urgency is couched in very strong terms but it must be noted that the proposer of the debate,  Senator Murphy,  was not even in the chamber when the debate commenced. He has graced us with his presence only for 2 or 3 minutes during the afternoon. Apparently he does not regard the matter as being of any importance. 1 would have thought that the Opposition was better served- 
 Senator Milliner  should talk to his leader. He is letting him down. I am trying to draw the attention of Opposition senators to the facts of life.  Senator Willesee  led for the Opposition and whether we agree with what he said or not he always speaks sensibly and rationally. I have no doubt that the Opposition was better served by the absence of its leader. 
I note that the statement of the matter of urgency uses the phrase 'the unwise and panic measures of the Government'. I would have thought that the Opposition attack would have been based on that phrase but we have heard nothing about unwise measures. No member of the Opposition has raised this question. 
 Nothing is obvious. If the action taken is unwise you should prove it. lt is no use saying that the matter is obvious because a lot of people do not accept mere words from the Opposition. We have heard too many of those. If the action taken was unwise, obviously the Opposition has a. responsibility to prove lo the Senate why it was unwise. The Opposition has made no attempt to do so. Nor has it made any attempt to show that the measures taken were panic measures. Indeed, I noticed that the major criticism in the financial Press of the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was not that the measures taken were panic measures' but that perhaps they did not go far enough. There has been no accusation of panic; rather that the Government was taking things a little too easily and not treating the matter seriously enough. But  again the Opposition has a clear responsibility, if wc are to fake this matter seriously and treat it as one of urgency,' to prove for the benefit of the Senate and the country that a matter of urgency- was involved, that the action taken by the Government was unwise and was taken with a degree of panic. 
The Opposition has proved neither of those things. Indeed, Opposition senators have debated neither of those things. In his contribution  Senator Mulvihill  took lis for a trip round the world. He hardly dwelt at any stage with the stated matter of urgency. He fell into the trap, as the Labor Party always does when attention is drawn to the weaknesses of its administration in other countries. The Labor Party is always quick to blame others for its incompetence. He tried to blame the previous government for the mess that the United Kingdom was in. He said that the people in that country were fed lies. One of the reasons for the defeat of the Labor Government in Great Britain was the complete lack of credibility of its Prime Minister. The people no longer believed him. 
Inflation, this matter of great importance and seriousness, is not a peculiar problem to Australia. It is a world-wide problem. I think my colleague  Senator Webster  referred to this as well as to the fact that Australia has a much better record for controlling inflation than has any other developed country. I am not saying that this necessarily is good enough but the facts of life are that no other country has contained inflation with the same degree of success as has Australia. I have a few figures with me which were produced not by the Treasury but by the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research at the University of Melbourne. They were published in the 'Australian Economic Review' of 3rd October 1970. These figures tend to prove that retail prices in Australia have risen over a large number of years - indeed, from 1962 to 1968 and 1969, and the June quarter of 1970  -  at a much lower rate than those in any other developed country. The only country with a comparable figure is West Germany. I do not have time to quote these figures but they are here and are available to any honourable senator who wishes to read them. They prove the truth of my contention. 
Regardless of the domestic policies of Australia we cannot hope to escape completely from pressures induced everywhere else in the world. We cannot live in economic or financial isolation. Therefore so long as there are inflationary tendencies in other countries we will have to face pressures upon our own economy. But a. good deal can be done to slow down the rate of inflation. In the Australian Economic Review to which I have just referred it is argued by some economists, including Professor Neville, that sp long as a low rate of unemployment is maintained, as we have done so successfully in Australia, it is inevitable that there will be pressures upon wages and it is inevitable that cost increases will occur. Indeed, Professor Neville said that as long as we maintained a level of unemployment of 1 .5 per cent prices could be expected to rise by about 3 per cent each year. He. went on to say that prices might remain stable only if unemployment was as high as 5 per cent. Nobody would advocate ' this level of unemployment. It is clearly unacceptable. But, as Professor Neville has pointed out and given his reasons in this article, the very low rate of unepmloyment in Australia makes it very difficult to contain prices. 
Public spending has been rising at a rate faster than consumer spending and it is believed that many, of the pressures which are at present evident in the community are the result of public spending. Therefore, the Prime Minister has decided that cuts in public spending should be given first priority. This decision was not a panic measure. The cut was not a large one, but it was a start. Indeed, one hears throughout the community constant complaints about increases in public* spending, despite the fact that the community is putting great pressures on government for increased spending in every area. 
The Prime Minister announced cuts in not only public spending' but also the taxation deduction for expenditure on new plant in order to cut down business investment. A Bill will be introduced in the Senate shortly to give effect to this measure. The Prime Minister also referred to the restrictive trade practices problem and the Government's determination to act in this field. At the moment there are some constitutional problems,, but the Prime Minister has stated clearly that if the Commonwealth is found not to have the constitutional power he is prepared to seek that power. I make no apologies for restrictive trade practices. Undoubtedly they are having an effect upon our cost structure. Restrictive trade practices should not bc supported; indeed, they should be condemned. I will support any measures which will bring greater competition into industry. 
Another matter which I wish to mention briefly is the pressures placed on the economy by immigration. ( am delighted that the Government is to have a review of our immigration policy. I believe - indeed, many thoughtful people now believe - that the constant pressure for public spending and capital expenditure upon schools, hospitals, roads, education and so forth has been caused by the very rapid increase in our population. We have had one of the highest population increases in the world. This has been brought about to a great extent by our very successful immigration policy, in saying this I am not being critical of our past immigration policy. 1 believe that it has served this country magnificently. However, I think that the time has come when we should have a good look at it to see whether- 
I do not think that the home markets come into it. After all, the Australian population has increased at a high rate but there has. not been a great increase in our home markets. What 1 am saying is that I support the idea of a review of our immigration policy because 1 believe that the time has come for us to decide whether it is in the interests of the economic welfare of Australia to continue the rate of immigration at the same high level as it has been in the past. In other words, 1 believe that we should determine whether the policies of the past are going to serve us as well in the future. 1 believe also that it is important to look for quality and not just quantity. Because of improved economic and living standards in many countries it is becoming more and more difficult for us to obtain the type of migrant that we have obtained in the past. 
Before my time is up I want to deal briefly with the panacea that the Australian Labor Party always trots out as the be all and end all - price control. It has been trotted out again today. I do not think that there is a more discredited policy than that of price control. A non-Labor government introduced price and wage controls in New Zealand a year or two ago. Despite this prices rose last year by Hi per cent. Price and wage control has been abandoned in the United Kingdom. A Labour government in the United Kingdom - I am not criticising it - was faced with the complete failure of its policy because of rapid price increases. Productivity rose only 11 per cent per annum but price increases were at the rate of around 1H per cent to 13 per cent. Despite the experiences of modern countries in recent times the Australian Labor Party still trots out its policy of price control, lt is a sterile policy and one which has been completely discredited. 
I have in front of me an article which appeared in the 'West Australian' newspaper on Monday, 15th February 1971. It is by  Mr Colin  Clark, to whom I think the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  referred earlier.  Mr Colin  Clark has had, as the Minister pointed out, wide experience in the administration of price control. For example, he helped to draft the Queensland price fixing legislation in the 1920s. 
 I apologise if I have given the wrong title. He started off his article with a little story about an Irish  j  village which I think is worth quoting. He wrote: 
In an Irish village, the congregation was coming out of church. A young priest has just preached a sermon on matrimony. 
Ah said one old Irishman lo another, 'I wish that I knew as little about it as he does'. 

 Dr Colin Clark went on to say: 
Those who now advocate price control as a solution for our economic problems provoke the same reaction on my part. 
Did we? Who quoted it? 
 I am sorry. I must have missed it. I must have been absent from the chamber for a brief period when he quoted it. 1 apologise to the Senate. However, I think that the story was worth repeating because it was told by an authority on price control who believes that price control is not the solution. 1 do not know whether the Minister for Civil Aviation 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of considerable dissatisfaction over the operation of the emergency relief grant for woolgrowers in that many woolgrowers who attempted to maintain their incomes by increasing production either through further development or increased stocking have not benefited by the schema while their general financial position has worsened through increased indebtedness. Because only S13.9m - that is the last figure I saw - of the $30m made available has been expended will the Minister consult with his colleague the Minister for Primary Industry to see whether assistance can be granted to these people? 
It is a pleasure to take part in a debate in which we all seek one goal without any sharp divisions of opinion. There is a general agreement on all sides of the Senate and amongst all members as to the goals which we all strive for and that is the greater efficiency and effectiveness of Parliament. Also it is a continuation of the age long battle for superiority of the executive over Parliament or the Parliament over the executive, the lower house, the upper mass news media I see it is spoken of as being some new phenomenon, but if we look at the history of parliamentary government throughout the world - in the United Kingdom, the United States of America and all other countries with parliamentary governments - there has always been a battle between Parliament and the executive. Indeed all parliamentary systems have tride lo institute a system of checks and balances lo control the power and influence of one against the other so that no section of government, whether it be the executive. Sometimes when l read the house or, indeed, the  president  or the Crown should become dominant. 
We in this country have adopted a system of parliamentary government which is, in simple terms, a mixture of what is generally known as the Westminster system and the United States system. We have borrowed something from each, here are, of course, many similarities between our Senate and the Senate of the United Slates of America, lt is rather interesting that in the very early days of discussions on the American system of government, the United States founding fathers saw the need for Senate committees as a part of the game of checks and balances. From my reading it was about 1789 when the first standing committees were established in the United Slates Senate, lt is also interesting to read a book writen by  Mr Lindsay  Rogers of the United Stales Senate in 1926. 1 commend it to any honourable senator who is interested. Some honourable senators may have rend the book, which has been brought up to date. He traces the history of the development of the United States Senate from the days of the founding fathers up to the present period. In particular he deals with the relationship between the United States Senate and the House of Representatives and, incidentally, the growing loss of power of the House of Representatives in America to the Senate. here is scrutiny of legislation in the House of Representatives in the United States and the need to get legislation through quickly and. therefore, the great need for the Senate, in this constant battle of balances and checks, to assume more power lo ensure that legislation is passed in the interests of the people and that it is sound legislation. In fairness, Rogers points out many of the weaknesses of the American committee system. I think possibly we we even here some of those weaknesses developing but which in time will be overcome. One of the interesting points he makes is the inability of many committees to be able to cross-examine witnesses in a thorough manner because of a desire of senators to make a mark in their own areas as the great cross-examiners - to bring up even irrelevant points so that they get headlines in their own Slates for the advancement of their political ideas, notwithstanding that their line of cross-examination may interfere with the obtaining from a witness of evidence which the committee wants. We probably find much the same problem ourselves at times, lt is a human problem and one to which the American Senate in its committee system has not yet found an answer. I think there are many problems in the United Slates which are far greater than the problems here. One of the problems is that of patronage of these committees which results in their owing something to others. Members of these committees are constantly pushing themselves into the limelight because of the need lo satisfy and to impress their own Slates as lo their great qualifications. From all the evidence the committee system in the United States has suffered accordingly. 
But we can learn and we should learn lessons from other systems. I do not think these problems confront us here to anything like the same extent. I have little doubt that we will develop here a system which will be more effective and which will ensure that the committees obtain from witnesses the type of information they want, by following a prepared line of cross examination, and which will inform and benefit Parliament. We have a lot to learn from the United States system. We should be prepared to study the strengths and the weaknesses of that system. One weakness is that appointment to the committees is based upon seniority. At one stage, of the 10 chairmen of the major Senate committees 8 were over the age of 70 and only 1 was under the age of 65. 
This was in the United States of America. I am going back some years when I say that, but honourable senators will probably find that today the membership of the committees is based upon seniority, so that in general the more important committees have the much older senators. The whole system is based upon a rigid system of seniority. Of course this is a weakness we have not followed here. 1 merely mention this as a matter of interest because often the American system is held up as a shining example, whereas it is not quite the shining example many people believe it is. 
I agree with my friend,  Senator Mulvihill.  Some of these gentlemen are not only crusty but are also very busy feathering their own nests and not looking to their future. Thank goodness the system of patronage which is so rife in the American system of government has not developed here. One hopes that it never will. 1 believe the few points are of some interest. Not only in the United States of America but also in all countries with parliamentary government there is a constant seeking for greater efficiency, effectiveness and control by Parliament. The House of Commons is slowly developing a system of select committees and many other committees. As  Senator Byrne  reminded us, they have committees which look at expenditure. Apparently some discussion took place between  Senator Mulvihill  and  Senator Byrne  as to the present position. 1 am not sure, but certainly in the past these committees looked at expenditure afterwards. They examined what had been spent rather than what was going to be spent. I am not certain whether there has been a change in that system but certainly the House of Commons realises the need for change as do the Parliaments in Canada and New Zealand. Each Parliament must develop a system of committees which is suited to its needs. We cannot slavishly follow any other country. We should examine what they do and find what is best in those countries and what can be modified and altered to suit our conditions. 
I am inclined to agree with  Senator Devitt.  If we learn by their mistakes we will certainly do better than they do. I believe there is great merit in the way we approach the committee system. Indeed Australia has not been backward in the appointment of select committees although we have been rather spasmodic in their appointment. Over a long period select committees of the Senate have been appointed to examine many matters, but it is only in recent times that this system has developed to its present stage. It is only very recently that we have been able to get together a research staff and I think we should pay great tribute to the  President  and to the officers of the Senate who service these committees. After all, it is no use having committees unless they are well serviced by a fully qualified secretariat. From time to time in some areas the committees need consultants from outside the secretariat. The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, of which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is the  Chairman  and Senators Rae, Georges, Little, myself and other senators are members, is an example. In this complex area we have had to move outside the secretariat to obtain expert assistance from consultants of a very high order in their fields. Without this type of assistance I do not believe that committees in such areas can operate either efficiently or effectively. In the secretariat we are building up a highly qualified and expert staff to service these committees. But I believe we should not move faster than the ability of the Senate to service committees. 
Now I come to the motion moved for discussion - and only for discussion - by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson). Senator Murphy  and  Senator Byrne  found many areas of agreement and some areas of disagreement. This is the whole purpose of this discussion. We should not be rigid or inflexible in our attitude but find areas of agreement which will make this system work efficiently and effectively in the interests of Parliament and of the country. Firstly, I mention the Estimates Committees which have been referred to by all speakers. The establishment of these com- mittees was a revolutionary move in the Senate. In my view the Committees worked remarkably well.  1  have no doubt that they will greatly improve, not only with the experience of honourable senators on the committees but also with greater knowledge from the departments as to the type of information honourable senators want. Officers of the departments will come better prepared to give answers to the questions which will bc asked of them. 
I believe we have to be very careful as to the areas in which we move in these committees. 1 do not think - this is only a personal view - that we should quiz departmental officers on matters of policy. We should be concerned with what is being spent, why it is being spent, changes in expenditure and inter-departmental efficiency, rather than asking questions or making statements on policy. I believe these committees are not for this purpose. I can see that once we have started these committees they will grow from strength to strength and become an effective element in our Senate system. 
It has been suggested in some areas that only  2  committees should meet at the same time. Another suggestion is that we should continue the system of  3  committees meeting at the same time. I have a fairly open mind about the matter. However, I would rather come down at this stage with the view that we should continue for this year with  3  committees until we gain greater experience and then decide whether there should be a change. I do not think we could come to any definite conclusion after  1  year, it may be that we will find that there is most efficiency with  2  committees rather than with 3. I know that it is argued by some honourable senators who wish to go from committee to committee that they find themselves inhibited by the fact that  3  committees are meeting at the one time. 
Yes, I agree. This is what 1 am saying. As we develop we will learn to speed it up. 
 Senator Prowse  talks about a  21  gun salute.  1  am not talking about more committees. I am saying that last year  3  Estimates Committees met and the proposal now is to have  2  rather than  3.  lt seems to me that the major point is that members of these committees will develop an expertise in the areas in which their committees operate. Therefore the main examination of Ministers and departmental officers will be carried out by committees whose members, over a period, will develop expertise. Of course, other honourable senators who are interested will still be free to attend the committee meetings but the major cross-examination will be done by the people who have developed expertise. At the present I would come down in favour of continuing for another year with  3  committees but, as I have said my mind is not inflexible on this matter: it is open. One of the proposals in regard to standing committees is that they should comprise  6  members instead of  8.  T find this attractive. It is obvious that as we continue to form standing committees an increasing number of honourable senators will be on more than one committee. As I think  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and  Senator Byrne  pointed out, a number of honourable senators are at present on  2  or  3  committees. 
When a number of committees sit at the one time honourable senators have to make up their minds what committee they will attend. The result is that many honourable senators are absent from one committee meeting for a long period while they are attending another committee meeting. In some of the areas the committees are investigating, the absence of honourable senators is a severe handicap. I do not think that an honourable senator can ever catch up on evidence that he has missed, particularly if it is given over a period. Therefore, in view of the workload that will fall on honourable senators, a total of  6  committees is plenty. We would hope that the members of those committees could attend meetings regularly. It would be easier for honourable senators to do this if there were  6  committees instead of  8.  At present two or three senators are continually absent for long periods through no fault of their own, merely because they have to make up their minds whether to attend committee X, committee Y, or committee Z. If they try to cover the 3 committees of which they may be members I am afraid that they will not be of much use to any of them. Therefore I find this proposal attractive. 
The only other point on which I wish to comment is the question of how many standing committees we should appoint now. It is suggested in the document Committees of the Australian Senate' that we should move into 2 more immediately or as soon as possible, the 2 suggested committees being the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts and the Standing Committee on Social Environment. My mind is not rigid - it is open - on what committees we should appoint. I believe that both of the areas suggested are areas in which there is at present a great deal of public interest and concern, but particularly in the area of education and science. Therefore, one is attracted to this suggestion.  Senator Byrne  referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. This is an area of considerable importance and  v/c  have to make an individual judgment on it.  Senator Murphy  suggested that perhaps we could encompass the 3 committees to overcome the problem of which 2 of the 3 we should select. The only point I would make - I think  Senator Byrne  alluded to this - is that we are nearing the end of the life of the present Senate. On 1st July, .12 new senators will come to this place. Two points arise from this. Firstly, I do not believe that we should appoint immediately to committees too many honourable senators who will retire in a couple of months. They will perhaps start work on a committee and then will have to move out of it. After the committee has taken evidence someone else will have to come in and try to pick up the evidence which has already been given. I think we should bear that point in mind. 
The second point to remember - this rather tends to convince me that we should move slowly at. this stage - is that we will have 12 new senators who have had no experience of serving on the standing committees or select committees. I think that many honourable senators in this chamber over a period of years have gained a great deal of experience in the working and operation of select committees. They have gained a tremendous amount of knowledge on how to go about obtaining evidence, the kind of evidence that should be obtained and the preparation of reports. A substantial number of new senators will have no experience in this field. Therefore for the first 12 months or 2 years there will be a need for the more experienced honourable senators to be spread over more committees to provide the experience and expertise for those committees until the new honourable senators become, to use an expression, trained in this field. After all, this is a strange place  in  which to be dumped suddenly. It is even stranger in the area of committee investigation. It seems to me that there is merit at this stage in proceeding a little slowly until we can develop in the new Senate the people who will be able to service these committees adequately. 1 conclude on the point that not only the value of committees, not only the credibility of the Senate and its committees but also the future of committees depends upon the reports which they bring in. We have been pretty well served with the kind of report that our committees have brought in. We cannot afford to lower what 1 believe has been a very high standard of investigation and report. Therefore, it seems to me that at this stage when we are ending one Senate and beginning a new Senate we have to move fairly slowly until such time as the 12 new senators can become accustomed to the Parliament and can become valuable members of select committees. On balance I find that we should move with 2 committees at this stage. I am flexible about the committees to be decided upon. I do not mind whether they are the committees suggested by  Senator Murphy  or the committees suggested by  Senator Byrne.  When the new Senate meets perhaps we can then move further as the new honourable senators become accustomed to the work in this place. The suggestion seems to me to be a wise one. 
I have taken a little longer than I intended on this matter. However there are probably a number of points 1 intended to make which I have not made. I believe we arc now developing a system that is going to be of tremendous value nol only to the Senate but to the nation. I believe that by the use of this system Parliament will retain control over the business of Government. I believe it is a valuable check to the power of the Executive and the power of the bureaucracy. There has been a constant battle between parliaments and the bureaucracy ever since parliaments were devised. Therefore 1 think it is the aim of each and every honourable senator, irrespective of which side of the chamber we occupy, to develop the best possible system of committees - a system that will give the greatest service lo the Parliament and to the nation. We all realise that this means a greater workload lo senators, lt means that we will have less and less time in our own States and in our homes. For my part 1 think I only had about 5 full weeks in Western Australia over a period of 40 weeks last year. However this is one of the prices we willingly pay. Realising all this, I believe we are all one in attempting to make this system of Senate committees work in the most efficient and effective manner. I am sure that out of the type of discussion wc are having tonight we will devise the best system lo meet the immediate moment from lime to time. I have had great pleasure in taking part in this debate and 1 hope that as a result of our discussion we will bc able to get together and ascertain the most effective means of making this system of committees work. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether it is a fact that New South Wales wheat growers in past seasons and again this season have been permitted to deliver f.a.q. wheat against hard wheat quotas? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to a dispute in Western Australia between the league and television stations over the televising of league football matches. It has been reported that an application has been made to the Trade Practices Commissioner on the matter in dispute, namely, arena advertising. Will the Minister ascertain for me as a matter of urgency the facts of the matter? 
- My question to the Minister for Health is on the lines of the question asked by  Senator Willesee  and refers to the decision of the Australian Medical Association to increase substantially fees for certain services. In view of the effect of the proposed increases on contributions by individuals to hospital and medical benefits funds, and upon the taxpayer by virtue of the increased payments which will have to be made by the Treasury, has the Government abandoned its decision that this matter should go to arbitration? If so, will the Minister explain why? 
Will the : Minister for Health give an" assurance that before the Government accepts the increases -in fees  for certain medical services as proposed by the Australian Medical Association a full statement will be made to the Parliament so Parliament can assess the justice of the AMA claims? 
 Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the price of urea imported from Queensland is now $84 a ton in Geraldton, Western Australia? In view of the undertaking given by the then Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Anthony,  last year, that should the price exceed $80 a ton the Government would examine the situation again, I ask the Minister: Will the 
Government examine the situation and in particular the suggestion that the bounty should apply to imports of urea from Japan which, it is estimated would save Geraldton producers between $56,000 and $70,000 annually? 
I am sorry I do not have 15 minutes in which to reply. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The time allowed for this discussion having expired, the Senate will proceed to the next business. 
 In his very long speech  Senator O'Byrne  tried to classify young men into two types - the goodies and the baddies. The goodies were those who demonstrate and the baddies were what he termed the good time boys, the privileged Who want to make hay while the sun shines, and so on. I think this is an unfair comment, an unjust comment and an untrue comment. This was a classification which was so simple as to be ludicrous. The fact is that a minority of young men demonstrate, and the ones that do are in the main those who cannot stand up to the pressures of modern life. Harry Stack Sullivan- whoever he may be I am not sure - made a true analysis of this type of person. He said: 
That there is some:hing wrong with the world is proved by the fact that there is  something  wrong with me, which they have done to me. 
That sounds like the type of young man whom  Senator O'Byrne  regards as the ideal type. 1 put to the Senate that in fact the great majority of young men and women are not good time young mcn and women. They are young people who think seriously of the world today and try lo do something constructive about it. They are not the destructive element which  Senator O'Byrne  sees as being the goodies, the ones who want to tear down what they do not understand but do not know what to build in its place. 
For my part, I believe that the great majority of young people today are magnificent types. They are not good time boys; they are serious minded people. If they do not demonstrate it is not because they are not thinking. They have too much sense to hold up silly placards and shout stupid slogans - something any mug can do - which mean nothing and make no impression upon anybody. Labor Party supporters have a strange morality.  Senator O'Byrne  spoke about morality. It could best be described as a selective morality, just as Labor Party supporters have a selective conscience. This morality is one that attacks the South Africans over apartheid. They see a moral wrong in racial discrimination. I do not object to that because I see a moral wrong in racial discrimination. But the same people do not attack the Russians for their racial discrimination against the Jews, a most blatant and brutal type of racial discrimination. They do not object when the Russian soccer team or the Russian ballet comes to Australia, and I do not believe they should. This is the strange selective morality that Labor Party supporters have. 
They select the South Africans but they do not select the Russians. They do not select many other countries in the world, which we could name one by one, which practice a policy of the most blatant racial discrimination whether it be against the Indians, the Chinese or some other race. It is the principle we are talking about, but the principle do'es not matter in these cases. All that the Labor Party is interested in is the question of South Africa. I do not support apartheid. I try to understand the position of South Africans but if I am to oppose- 
 That is what I am saying; you have a selective morality. If I am opposing the South Africans and refusing to play sport against them, then with equal measure I must oppose Russia and every other country in the world that practices racial discrimination; and there are many of them. In fact, we would have relations with very few countries in the world if this were the case and this morality of the Labor Party was applied universally and not on a selective basis. Now we do not mind playing ping pong with China. Neither do I, but the Chinese have murdered millions of their own citizens. We do not mind sending a ping pong team there or inviting a Chinese ping pong team to Australia. Neither do I. 
I believe it is a good thing that Australians have been meeting with Chinese and I would have no objection to the People's Republic of China sending a team to play ping pong against Australia. So I do not possess this selective 'morality. I believe it is all or nothing. This strange morality extends to a part of this Bill which deals with the protection of diplomats. If the Russian Embassy is attacked the Labour Party wants to know all about it, and with perfect justification. If the Yugoslav Embassy is attacked we have questions and speeches in this place, and correctly so because they are entitled to protection. But if the United States Consulate in Melbourne is attacked by a mob of hoodlums there is not a question from the Labor Party. Those hoodlums are not condemned. If the Philippines Embassy is attacked, as it was the other day, not a question comes from the Labor Party. If the South African diplomats are harassed, attacked and abused there is not a question from the Labor Party. Again we see a selective morality and a selective conscience on the part of the Labor Party. I believe that this is a matter which the Labor Party should start thinking about, although probably not all members of the Labor Party support this type of morality. 
If the honourable senator does not find it sensible I would be very delighted to hear him speaking some time about his particular type of morality. That is all I want to hear because he cannot deny the truth of what I am saying. I now turn to the question of demonstrations and dissent. I notice that  Senator Murphy,  while speaking in the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill, said: 
This Bill is an onslaught upon the rights of freedom of speech and of peaceable assembly in this country. It is in line with a number of other attempts to erode civil liberties in our community. 
That is a blatant untruth. This Bill does not deny the right of dissent or the right to demonstrate. Nor do I not deny the right of dissent or the right to demonstrate. Indeed, it is a fundamental right of every person to disagree with the Government of the day, but there are other rights in the community. Freedom is not total, nor is freedom absolute. Freedom must be granted within the framework of the law. 
Everybody has a right to freedom. People have the right to move about the streets on their own business without undue inconvenience or interference. People have the right to carry on their business without undue interference or inconvenience. This is a right to which every person in the community is entitled.  Senator Wheeldon  in his speech on the Bill - if it could be called a speech, and I thought  Senator Hannan  dealt with it pretty effectively - concluded by saying: 
The Australian Labor Party says that the primary right is the right for people to demonstrate and the right of free assembly, not the right of those people who object to it. 
I think that should be noted. In other words,  Senator Wheeldon  recognises only one right. He does not recognise the right of the citizens of this country to move about on their daily business freely and without undue interference. He recognises only the right of those who wish, for their own purposes, to sit on streets in a most stupid way to block traffic and to prevent people going about their lawful business. But it is strange enough that he says that the Australian Labor Party recognises this right and this right only. I have in front of me a speech on this Bill made by the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam.  He obviously does not recognise this right despite what  Senator Wheeldon  said because at page 1579 of Hansard he is reported in this way: 
There can be no doubt that there have been some contemptible and cowardly invasions of Commonwealth premises in Sydney and Melbourne. Nobody would condone those. 
So he does not recognise the sole right of people to demonstrate. He continued: 
The people who participated in those invasions, those threats, those demonstrations, those sit-ins should have been brought to trial. Why were they not brought to trial? 
Obviously the Leader of the Opposition in another place docs not agree with  Senator Wheeldon. 
No. I think there is a certain degree of agreement between  Dr Cairns  and  Senator Wheeldon.  I want to refer to one other very notable authority who was quoted in the second reading speech of  Senator Wright  who represents the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen). 
It is the right honourable Lord Shawcross, Q.C., a former Labour Attorney-General of the United Kingdom, and a very distinguished member of Parliament and of his profession. In 1966, in an article which I think is worth quoting again, Lord Shawcross said:  . . the existence of rights depends upon the establishment of related obligations and neither can exist without the co-existence of the other. 
It is quite obvious that if  Senator Wheeldon  is speaking for the Australian Labor Party - I do not accept that he is because I would like to think that many of my friends in the Labor Party would not adopt the same attitude but rather would adopt that of  Mr Whitlam  and Lord Shawcross - then he is acknowledging only one right and that is the right of anarchy. If there are no laws, if people have the right to intimidate those with whom they disagree, to interfere with the rights of others to go about their work or pleasure in freedom, without threats of violence or actual violence, this is anarchy- People who advocate this policy in fact are advocating anarchy. This would threaten the very fabric of our society. I repeat that noone has the right of absolute freedom. I believe that in any society there must be restrictions in order to protect the rights and liberties of others. There cannot be rights without obligations. 
I wish to speak only briefly tonight because I believe that this Bill has been debated ad nauseam. There is a responsibility on government to draw a sensible balance - a balance that protects the right of dissent. I defy anybody to say that I or any other honourable senator on this side of the chamber does not protect the right of dissent. But this right cannot be absolute. Our citizens have the right to go about their lawful business. I believe that this Bill protects both sides. The Australian Labor Party has a clear responsibility to choose whether it prefers the present diverse laws of the Commonwealth, which provide extremely heavy penalties for some of the offences covered in this Bill - laws about which there is a great deal of confusion - or a law which is sensible and clear.  Mr Whitlam  referred to the Commonwealth Crimes Act as being a law under which action could be taken, particularly in the. cases he quoted. I understood always that the Australian Labor Party was not very happy about the Commonwealth Crimes Act. 

 - Mr Whitlam said that action should be taken under the Commonwealth Crimes Act so the honourable senator had better talk to him about that, not to me. 
 Yes, he did. The honourable senator read his speech. He said: 
There is ample provision under the Commonwealth Crimes Act - there has been for nearly 60 years - for prosecution of persons causing damage to Commonwealth property . . 
And so on. In fact he was advocating that action should be taken under the Commonwealth Crimes Act.' 
In conclusion I put it to members of the Australian Labor Party that it is all very well to say that there is an absolute right of dissent and an absolute right of demonstration. But I wonder what would happen if  Senator Wheeldon's  office or  Senator Cavanagh'?  office were invaded by a mob df hoodlums, dressed iri. brown shirts, wearing brown belts, with swastikas on their arms, who then proceeded to smash up the furniture, to threaten and to intimidate their secretaries, and to go through their offices, their documents and so on. I believe they would protest as they have already protested in this place about the activities of these stupid people. 
 Do not start talking about Victoria. I am putting a question which the honourable senator may answer if he likes. If  Senator Mulvihill  applauds the actions of those individuals who broke into the Commonwealth offices .in Melbourne recently - some of his colleagues supported them - then where does he stand if a mob of hoodlums in brown shirts and wearing swastikas breaks into his office and proceeds to smash it up and to work him over? It would be a different story. He would then demand the right of protection. I come back to where I started, the question of selective morality and selective conscience. The Labor Part)' cannot have it both ways. There has to be a right of protection avail able to individuals against this type of conduct by some people, whether they are from the right, the left or the middle. There has to be one law which covers all people. Because of the growth of these extreme elements on both sides, the Government has a right and an obligation to ensure that the rights pf the citizens of this country are protected. At the same time it has to strike a sensible balance to ensure that those who wish to dissent and those who wish to demonstrate are protected and given that right so long as this does not mean that they interfere with the rights and freedoms of others. I believe that this is the cardinal point. I believe that this legislation strikes this sensible balance. It does not erode freedom, it does not erode the liberties of people or the right to demonstrate, but it lays down the rules. We all have to live within the rules laid down by the law. I see nothing wrong with that. The alternative is . anarchy arid this, I repeat, would strike at the very fabric of our society. With those very brief comments I support the Bill and commend it to the Senate. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I remind the Minister that on 7th April I asked a question in relation to an application made to the Trade Practices Commissioner concerning the televising of Australian Rules football in Perth. In view of the fact that the Trade Practices Commissioner conveyed his decision to the interested parties within a few days of my question, I ask: When will I receive a reply? 
 I rise only because by interjection tonight I said that  Senator Wheeldon  believed that the only right was the right to dissent and that the people who opposed dissent had no rights. I said that he had said that in his speech on the second reading of this Bill. 1 have before me a copy of that speech and I rise merely to put the record straight. At page 1077 of Hansard of Wednesday, 28th April,  Senator Wheeldon  at the conclusion of his speech said, and may I say that I quoted this last night and said that the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam,  did not agree with  Senator Wheeldon: 
The Australian Labor Party says that the prim,ary right is the right for people to demonstrate and the right of free assembly, not the rights of those people who object to it. 
Therefore I say that  Senator Wheeldon  laid down clearly that there is only one right in his mind and that is the right to demonstrate, not the rights of those people who oppose demonstrations. I believe that my interjection was correct according to  Senator Wheeldon's  own words. We have heard all about the people who throw bombs at embassies and so forth. I deplore this and oppose it as much as does anybody else in this chamber, but I find it interesting to note that neither  Senator Wheeldon  nor any member of his Party has objected to it. In fact, rather than object they led and took part in the harassment of members of the diplomatic corps representing South Africa in Australia. 
Where? Goodness me. Members of the other place took part in the blowing of horns and the harrassment of members of the South African Embassy. They boasted about it and challenged the police to take action against them. Yet somebody asks: 'Where?' 
They went back again the next day to repeat the performance, as my friend  Senator Young  has said. Let us be clear and sensible about this. There is no selective morality in this. If we oppose the harassment of members of the Embassy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the Yugoslav Embassy or any other embassy, which I do, then in equal right we oppose the harassment of members of the South African Embassy or any other embassy in Australia. Let us be clear. There is only one morality, not the selective morality in which the Labor Party believes. But, as I said, I rose merely to quote  Senator Wheeldon  and, using his own words, to condemn him when he says that there is only one right and that is the right to demonstrate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a reported statement on behalf of the wheat section of the Farmers Union in Western Australia that New South Wales has used money made available to cover special allocations of prime hard wheat for the general run of deliveries with the result that New South Wales growers have been paid for an additional 14 million bushels. If this report is correct, would not this action be contrary to the spirit and intention of controlled wheat production in Australia? 
While I support the Bill, I do so with some degree of reluctance. I would have been far happier if the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  in justification of the appointment of an additional Minister, had been able to inform the Parliament that he had carried out a review of the present responsibilities and had been able to rationalise the Ministry. 
Let me make my own speech. You might get the chance to tell your Leader something one of these days. You probably would not be game to. I do not want to be helped by  Senator Cavanagh.  I am merely expressing my view. I find it hard to believe that rationalisation was not possible. When I look at this Bill and its proposal to appoint Assistant Ministers whose responsibilities seem to be not clear, it appears to me that the power of the Executive is being strengthened. 
Debate interrupted. 
When the Senate adjourned last night I had questioned the justification for the decision to increase  the Ministry by one on the basis that the Senate had no means of making a judgment as to whether this was necessary unless we were given information that a review had been carried out of ministerial responsibilities as they exist. I regretted that this had not been done. I also went on to comment upon the proposal to appoint a number of Assistant Ministers. When the Senate adjourned I was making the point that this decision to appoint 6 or 7 Assistant Ministers would appear to strengthen the power of the Executive over Parliament. I believe this is not desirable. It appears to me on the information that I have on which to make a judgment that Assistant Ministers will in fact have no responsibility as to the running of departments or as to decisions but will have obligations to support the Executive. If my arithmetic is correct, depending on whether 6 or 7 Assistant Ministers are appointed, between 37 per cent and 38 per cent of the Government party members will be committed to an Executive line both in the Party room and in Parliament. This seems to me to be a substantial number. Indeed, it seems that we are reaching a stage at which there will be more chiefs than Indians. I like seeing a lot of Indians around to keep an eye on the chiefs. 1 do not wish to speak at any length. I hope I am making the few points I want to make briefly. One of the great conflicts in any system of parliamentary government - it is not unique to Australia but exists in every country that has a parliamentary system - is the conflict between the Executive and Parliament. Of course, in the early days of British parliamentary history it used to be the conflict between King and Parliament. Parliament has the ultimate responsibility and in the final result the will of Parliament must prevail. Any move that increases the influence of the executive element of government over Parliament or makes it more difficult for Parliament to exercise its will, in my view, is undesirable. 
I think these few points indicate my concern at the Bill which we have before us and the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  regarding the appointment of Assistant Ministers. I am bound to say that on the evidence which has been produced for us on which to make a judgment 1 can find little justification for the appointment of an additional Minister, and I must seriously question either the need or the desirability of appointing Assistant Ministers. While I indicate that it is with reluctance that i support the Bill, I feel bound to make the comments I have made about both the Bill which is before us and the statement made by the Prime Minister. I conclude by saying - this is the great problem which Parliament faces and to which Parliament must always be alert - that in the final analysis the will of Parliament must prevail and that if more thought was given to means and methods of ensuring that Parliament functioned more effectively in these modern and complex days and less thought was given to strengthening the power of the Executive, I believe the government of this country would run more smoothly and effectively. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, follows questions asked of him concerning the serving of meals on flights of short duration and his undertaking to investigate the matter. I now ask the Minister: Was there an observer from the Department of Civil Aviation on Ansett Airlines of Australia flight 394 on Friday 14th May? Has it been reported that the senior hostess apologised to some economy class passengers for not serving refreshments? Did the senior hostess also announce that the staff would be able to serve first class passengers only because 12 passengers did not require dinner? If this is so, will the Minister take action, in the interests of safety and convenience, to stop the serving of meals on flights of less than 75 minutes duration? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry whether he can provide details of trade during the past 12 months between Australia and the Peoples Republic of China? If possible, I would like included in those details the recent purchase of merino rams. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Some time ago it was reported that an additional member was to be appointed to the Tariff Board to enable a member to be free to deal with by-law admissions and dumping. When is this appointment likely to be made? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs the following matter: Japan. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the Australian Labor Party's great concern to ensure that parliamentary elections are held in the countries of South East Asia, especially South Vietnam, I ask the Minister: What was the date on which the election was held which resulted in the appointment of Chou En-lai as Prime Minister of the People's Republic of China? Can the Minister advise how many candidates contested the election? Is the Minister aware whether  Mr Whitlam  raised this important principle with Chou En-lai during his discussion with the Chinese Prime Minister? 
1 am very happy to answer the question, because in considering a reference on Japan one had to take into consideration the world wide economic power and influence, both existing and potential, of a country such as Japan, and I believe that one could not adequately consider the subject if one circumscribed it to one particular area such as South East Asia, because Japan has a great interest in what happens in the Middle East, of course. Ninety per cent of its oil comes from the Middle East. It is greatly concerned as to what happens in the Indian Ocean and with the policies it develops to encompass all these areas. Therefore I thought it was far better merely to have a simple reference which would enable the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs to study the question of Japan and its relationship throughout the world rather than try to circumscribe it to one or two areas, otherwise we could not adequately deal with the influence and potential influence of Japan on the world scene. recognition of dr william Mcbride 
 I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry to his statement on assistance to the wool industry, and I ask whether the deficiency payment will be received by the broker or private wool merchant as a trustee for the grower, with the requirement that it be passed on in full, or whether the broker will be allowed to offset it against any moneys owing to him by the grower. 
 I heard  Senator Cavanagh  tonight allege that my colleague  Senator Carrick  had not been telling the truth. He repeated that allegation several times. I thought that  Senator Cavanagh  had been here long enough to know that when a senator quotes from Hansard, and particularly replies by Ministers to questions, he should quote the whole reply and not half of it.  Senator Cavanagh  quoted a question asked by  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition in another place, on 11th November 1964.  Mr Whitlam  asked whether the Government's military advisers had recommended national service.  Senator Cavanagh  quoted only half of the Minister's reply. In order to put the record straight I intend to quote the rest of his reply. The question asked by  Mr Whitlam  appears at page 2783 of Hansard of 11th November 1964.  Mr Whitlam  referred to the following statement by the Minister 15 days previously: 
We have not introduced conscription up to this point in time because our military advisers have indicated in the clearest and most unmistakeable terms that it is not the most effective way of creating the Army we need to meet the situation we face. 

 Mr Whitlam asked: 
Have the military advisers since changed their advice? 

 Senator Cavanagh quoted only part of the Minister's answer. The Minister went on to say: 
When the Government last undertook a review of the strategic basis of defence policy, the military advisers did not believe that selective national service training was warranted at that time. On this occasion, when the Government reviewed the strategic basis of our defence policy, our military advisers believed that the situation had deteriorated to a point at which it was necessary for them to tell the Government that the only way to establish an Army of the size we required in the time we required it was by introducing a selective service training scheme. 
That is the Minister's reply. I think it is a great pity that  Senator Cavanagh  did not quote the full reply. He would have created a different impression from that which he intended to create. After  Senator 
Cavanagh had alleged that my colleague  Senator Carrick  had not been telling the truth, he said that South Vietnam had not agreed to hold elections in 19S6 as had been agreed upon at the Geneva Conference. I have spoken on this matter before. This is a story that has been floating around for years without any basis in fact. Let us get the facts straight. Two agreements were reached at the time of the Geneva Conference, the first of which was between the People's Army of Vietnam - which included many people who later moved to South Vietnam as they refused to accept Communist domination - and the forces of the French Union. The agreement was for the cessation of hostilities, the laying down of demarcation lines, the movement of troops and so on. 
The second matter negotiated was not really an agreement as much as a final declaration - an unsigned declaration - of the Geneva Conference, the parties to which were representatives of Cambodia, the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, France, Laos, the People's Republic of China, the State of Vietnam - I point out to honourable senators that South Vietnam was not recognised in the declaration - the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. I shall quote from clause 7 of the declaration in order to make my point clearly understood. In a moment I will go further and deal with this situation. Clause 7 states: 
The Conference declares that so far as Vietnam 

 H concerned the settlement of political problems effected on the basis of respect for the principles of independence unity and territorial integrity- 
I am reading the whole of it, and not half of it-  shall permit the Vietnamese people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms, guaranteed by democratic institutions established as a result of free general elections by secret ballot. In order to ensure that sufficient progress in the restoration of peace has been made, and that all the necessary conditions obtain for free expression of the national will- 
I ask honourable senators to note the expression 'free expression of the national will'-  general elections shall be held in July 19S6 under (he supervision of an international commission composed of representatives of the member States of the International Supervisory Commission. . . . 
At the end of the Conference the United States and South Vietnam said that they had serious doubts about clause 7. What was the position in North Vietnam at that time? Did all the necessary conditions prevail for a secret ballot and the free expression of the people s will? 
I do not wish to quote any authorities other than those whom  Senator Cavanagh  would regard as impeccable; for example, General Giap, Commander-in-Chief of the North Vietnamese forces and Minister for Defence, and Truong Chinh, the architect of what I will describe in a minute. In 1954 the North Vietnamese Communist Government embarked on a programme of land reform. That is what they called it. What happened? Between 1954 and 1956, at a time when free elections were to be held, it is on record that about 100,000 people were butchered. This is documented and indeed admitted by the North Vietnamese. I shall quote a description of what happened during that period. 
The record is clear. In 1956 under the guise of land reform as many as perhaps 100,000 people were murdered in North Vietnam, many, more were tortured and imprisoned without trial. The families', of the victims were left to starve. The excesses of this purge were admitted by General Giap. The principle adopted was that it is better to execute 10 innocent people than to allow one enemy to escape. 
Genera] Giap admitted at that time that too many innocent people had been executed. He said that terror became too widespread. He did not say that terror should not have been used. He qualified it and said that it became too widespread. He admitted that torture became a daily occurrence. This was admitted by General Giap in respect of a period about which  Senator Cavanagh  tells us that conditions existed for free elections in North Vietnam. 
No. You are mixing him up with Genera] Eisenhower. When did he say that? Tell us the date? 
We have heard the argument previously that General Eisenhower had made such a statement. General Eisenhower had not. What General Eisenhower had said was that had it been a contest between Ho Chi Minh and Bao Dai the Communists would have won because Bao Dai had been discredited. That was a different story. But that does not alter what I am saying. Of course the Communists would have won because not 95 per cent of the people in North Vietnam would have voted, 100 per cent of them would have voted because Ho Chi Minh would have seen to it. Do you think that Diem could have compaigned freely in North Vietnam as  Senator Cavanagh  has suggested? 
Will  Senator Cavanagh  say categorically that Ho Chi Minh would have allowed  President  Diem to have campaigned in North Vietnam? Would Ho Chirn Minh have allowed other political parties to exist in North Vietnam? Would Ho Chi Minh have allowed the International Commission to supervise elections in North Vietnam at a time when he was murdering and torturing his political opponents, as has been admitted by General Giap? 
Of course he did not say he would not have elections. 
No-one signed the Accords. The Accords was a declaration. The United States and South Vietnam dissociated themselves from it because they did not believe that conditions would exist for a free election. They were right. Conditions did not exist. I am stating the facts and it is of no use for  Senator Bishop  to argue. 
Of course there was not, because Ho Chi Minh would not have allowed them. He gave no indication between 1954 and 1956 that he allowed political parties to exist because he was busy murdering his political opponents to make sure that they did not exist. So there could not have been any elections. This is factual and has been admitted by General Giap of North Vietnam. Truong Chinh, a charming gentleman, said: 
The aim of the present revolution is that the entire people should thoroughly absorb the socialist ideology, that they should abandon their previous outlooks on life and on the world and replace it with the Marxist viewpoint. 
That was the situation which existed at that time, yet  Senator Cavanagh  and other members of the Labor Party have the effrontery to accuse the South Vietnamese of reneging on an agreement, an agreement that they did nol make and did not accept. We were told also by  Senator Cavanagh  that South Vietnam had breached the Geneva Accords in many respects. That is an old story. Two days after the Geneva Accords had been arrived at Ho Chi Minh said: 
We must devote all possible efforts during the peace to obtain unification of the entire nation. We shall struggle infallibly . . . The struggle will be long and difficult; all the peoples and soldiers of the North and the South must unite to conquer victory. 
I must say that that did not indicate that he wished to take the risk of having a free election which he might not win. His remarks on that occasion gave no indication of that. In July 1954 at the commencement of the Agreement the Lao Dong Party, the Communist Party  of  Hanoi, had this to sav: 
Naturally, the Party members and compatriots in South Vietnam will continue to remain in the zone on the other side. Our compatriots and our members must continue to wage a hard struggle. The Party must struggle; its cadres must remain with the people . . . maintaining the influence of the Party and the Hanoi Government. 
Let us have the record straight on this. The final point with which I wish to deal relates to whether South Vietnam is an independent state. I have never heard any argument that the agreement regarding the division of Germany, which was to have been settled by free elections, has been breached by one side or the other. It is obvious that East Germany with 15 million people would not take the risk of losing a free election because in a unified Germany they would have no say. We never hear anything about that. We hear only about North Vietnam and South Vietnam because there are more people in the North than in the South and there would have been a 100 per cent vote in the 
North. Further, no political parties would have been allowed to campaign in the North. The suggestion that is made is pretty one-sided. 
 1 know. That has happened in other countries as well. Over 70 independent nations in the world recognise South Vietnam as an independent nation. In 1958 the Soviet Union proposed a package deal by which South Vietnam and North Vietnam, and South Korea and North Korea should be admitted to the United Nations. So in 1958 the Soviet Union was prepared to recognise, and indeed did recognise by this proposal, that South Vietnam was an independent country. Those members of the Labor Party who still reject this  -  I do not suggest that all of them do - are becoming a pretty lonely group. 1 turn now to the Bill before us. 1 must confess that I am not entirely happy with the Bill because it proposes to reduce the period of national service from 2 years to 18 months. I am not happy because this will mean even a small reduction in our military forces. I agree with both  Mr Gorton  and Professor Howard.  Senator James  McClelland made the same stupid mistake as  Senator Cavanagh  made in quoting only part of what Professor Howard had said whereas my colleague quoted all of it. Professor Howard agrees wilh the Government's view that there is no discernible enemy likely to attack Australia in the foreseeable future, but I noted that  Senator James  McClelland did agree that this situation could change dramatically. lt is true that the situation in South East Asia had improved. The stability of the area has improved. However, there are dark clouds on the horizon and no-one can be entirely happy with the situation which is developing. Communist insurgents are becoming more active in Thailand, both in the north and in the south. They have again established themselves in northern Malaysia and are becoming increasingly active. They are becoming increasingly active also in Sarawak and in Indonesia. On my recent visit I heard fears expressed in each of those countries, and also in Singapore, that this was posing a new problem and a new threat to the stability of the area. 
 I am glad that  Senator Mulvihill  has mentioned the socialist leader of Singapore because the socialist leader of Singapore has nothing but contempt for the views of the socialist party of Australia, as is evidenced by the fact that he has supported to the hilt the commitment in Vietnam of both the United States and Australia, and is on record as having said that Singapore knows, as do the other countries in South East Asia, that if Vietnam falls to the communists all the little fishes of Asia will fall as well. I am glad to have  Senator Mulvihill's  support in the view that the socialist leader of Singapore is doing a good job. 
Do not try to talk your way out of it. Lee Kuan Yew is a free enterprise man. There is no socialism in Singapore. Do not forget that. When he came to Australia he was so concerned about the Australian Labor Party that he invited it to send some representatives to Singapore where he could instruct them in the facts of life. He did that, too. He instructed members of the Australian Labor Party in the facts of life. Singapore is concerned with the growing instability and increasing communist insurrection in parts of South East Asia. We cannot be complacent about the situation. Nor can we be complacent about the attitude and policies of the United States.. The Nixon Doctrine is in effect. It would be, I suggest, calamitous for Australia to change its mind at this time when the Nixon Doctrine says: 'We will help those who help themselves' and when the countries of South East Asia are endeavouring more and more to help themselves. Whether we like it or not, Australia cannot escape its commitments in South East Asia because the stability of South East Asia is essential to our security. The stability of the region would be affected if Australia, the most affluent country in South East Asia, reduced its forces. 
The Australian Labor Party can try to explain this away; it can try to explain it to the countries of South East Asia. But I certainly would not try to explain it to those countries because they would not accept the explanation. They would think that Australia, which is vitally concerned with South East Asia, was ducking out and was going to leave the problem to them - the less affluent and less developed countries. I believe that this would cause a loss of confidence throughout South East Asia. Therefore, the stability of the region is of concern to us and it is a matter of concern for countries in the region in which we live. 
No-one knows how the position could dramatically change. Even  Senator James  McClelland admitted that there could be a change. We do not know what will be the result of the discussions between  President  Nixon and Chou En-lai. They could result in all sorts of alternatives which for all we know could have grave consequences for our position, for the part of the world in which we live. I would say this: There is concern in South East Asia on this matter. There is also concern about other matters. Concern has been expressed about the growing power of other nations and the effect that this may have in time on the stability of the region. So we cannot be complacent. Nothing would be more disastrous than if we adopted an attitude of complacency. I suggest that foreign policy today is very flexible. 1 find it hard to understand what the policy of the Australian Labor Party is on this matter. The Labor Party said that it would abolish national service immediately and would reduce our forces to 28,000 if it came to power. I tried to understand what was said by the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard)  who is the Labor Party's defence expert. The honourable member said that perhaps in 5, 10 or 12 years time - this was some indefinite period - we could have by means of voluntary enlistment a force of 38,000 or 39,000. However, he made an extraordinary statement. He said that a voluntaryforce of 37,000 or 38,000 would be the equivalent of a force of 40,000 because there would be, he suggested, some 2,000 who engaged in the training. I cannot see the logic of this. Several thousand would be engaged in training the volunteers, or does the honourable member not think they are going to be trained? 1 do not know. However, I do know that  Senator James  McClelland apparently does not quite agree because he spoke some irresponsible nonsense to the effect that all we require now is an army of officers and non-commissioned officers who could quickly train a force in an emergency. I think the honourable member used the words: 'You could raise a national security force should Australia be threatened'. However, the honourable member admitted that it took 6 months to train a soldier. I wonder whether someone will be kind enough to say to us that we will be threatened in 6, 9 or 12 months time and therefore we had better start training our forces. I suggest that this is the sort of naive suggestion that the Opposition is putting up. 
I challenge also the statement that a soldier can be trained in 6 months. National servicemen serving in the infantry were trained for 9 months before they were sent overseas. 
Oh no, senator. They had 9 months training before they went overseas. What is more, the Army is becoming more complex and more specialists are required. One does not train a specialist in 9 months. It takes at least 12 months and probably longer to train a specialist today in the complex and sophisticated army which must be developed. 
I have not heard greater lunacy than to suggest that when an emergency arises we should have a number of officers and noncommissioned officers who will be available to train a force quickly. Those of us who served in the last war know that troops were trained quickly at that time of national emergency. This is no laughing matter,  Senator Georges.  Troops were trained quickly - they had only 13 weeks basic training because of the national emergency and sent up to fight in the jungles of New Guinea. We do not want to have that sort of situation develop again. Troops were a quarter trained and could not protect themselves. If the suggestion that the Australian Labor Party is adopted, theo 1 suggest that it has not learnt the lessons of history, and recent history at that. 
Well, I am afraid,  Senator Georges,  that if I have to wait for you to educate me, I will be over 100 years old and still will not be educated. I have never heard such rubbish in my life as that which has come from the honourable senator's side of the House. 
Another aspect of national service training which has been completely overlooked, and which I suggest is vital to the defence of Australia, is that this scheme builds up a substantial force of reserve troops who are fully trained and who are available at a moment's notice. At the moment, I think, about 21,000 men have been fully trained. In a time of emergency these men could be called up. This number is a substantial addition to our present force. Over the years since national service training has been in existence, I suggest, the number of reserves would be nearer to 50,000 men. Many of them would require little training to make them proficient soldiers once again. Therefore it is very important that behind every standing army there should be available fully trained reserves who could be brought into action at a time of national emergency and trained to proficiency in a matter of weeks or a month. We should not bring in raw recruits and expect them to be trained by all the officers and NCOs that  Senator James  McClelland said would be available Who will lead the troops when these officers are training the recruits? I just do not know. The honourable senator did not explain the answer to us, probably because he does not know. 
The next point I wish to make concerns statements made about experts. We heard a lot about experts. As my colleague  Senator Carrick  pointed out, experts can be wrong. I wonder, as the Australian Labor Party has placed such great faith in an expert such as Professor Howard, what faith it would place in its expert advisers - the men who are trained to advise a government on what type of forces are required? Would the Labor Party regard these people as experts? Would the Labor Party consider that such advice should be accepted? It readily accepted the advice of Professor Howard. 
 Senator James  McClelland said he was. I am in a very jovial and generous frame of mind and I will accept just for the moment accept that fact because the honourable senator felt that he could assist Labor supporters. What would the Labor Party do with the advice of its expert and military adviser if the departmental advisers on defence said:  'Mr Minister,  we require an army of 50,000 men to be available'. Would the Labor Minister say: 'You are not an expert; I am the expert? Would he just ignore such a recommendation? What would the Labor Party do about it?  Senator Georges  has a chance to tell me what his Party would do about it. 
The honourable member says he will tell us and I will be very interested to know because it is all right to quote experts when it suits his Party to quote them but it ignores experts when it receives advice that it does not want to hear. This is a different story altogether. 
Unfortunately my time has almost expired, but I would like to say one more thing. We have heard a lot about conscience; we have heard a lot about the right of people to disobey the law. All 1 want to say tonight is that a Labor government would be in an interesting situation because it would have no right to enforce its laws. It would have no moral right to enforce its laws because all I would have to say would be- 
All right, I am glad to hear the honourable senator say that because it brings me to the point I was going to make: The Labor Party has a double standard. If it can say that a man as a matter of conscience has a right to disobey a law then every man has a right to disobey a law if he says: 'My conscience will not allow me to accept that'. 
Does the honourable senator agree with that? 
 It would be interesting if the Australian Labor Party were in office and if all citizens said that they refused to obey the laws of Parliament because of a matter of conscience. 
 I decide my conscience, not you. I decide what is a matter of con.cience to me, not  Senator Georges.  What would happen if all citizens said that they have a right to disobey the law? In conclusion I suggest that the Australian Labor Party, by its infamous attitude, has so compromised itself that it could never govern Australia. 
 I wish to make only a few brief comments.  Senator lames  McClelland quoted Professor Howard as one of the experts on whose opinion he relied. But he only quoted half of what Professor Howard said. The Senate is indebted to  Senator Carrick  for completing the quotation. There is no doubt that  Senator James  McClelland attempted to mislead the Senate.  Senator Cavanagh  has just said that national service is a colossal waste. The opinion of the Labor Party's own expert, Professor Howard, is, as  Senator Carrick  reminded us last night, that Australia's defence scheme is one of the least wasteful in the world. Honourable senators opposite have been condemned out of the mouth of their own expert. 
The second matter to which I wish to refer is  Senator Cavanagh's  comment that only 6 months' service is obtained from a national serviceman after he has received training. What  Senator Cavanagh  completely ignored was that we are building up a substantial reserve force which, for 5 years, at least is trained and available for any emergency. That is completely and conveniently ignored. The third matter f mention is this matter of conscientious objection. For once and for all let us do away with the complete hypocrisy and humbug of members of the Labor Party on the matter of conscience. While they become quite emotional about conscientious objection to military service, if a man because of a conscientious objection does nol want to join a union they condemn him as a scab. He has no rights.  His  conscience is not recognised. Let us do away with this hypocrisy and humbug of  Senator Cavanagh  of the Opposition about this selective conscience. When it suits honourable senators opposite a man has a right of conscience. When it does not suit them the man is a scab. 
 I rise only because  Senator Cavanagh  deliberately misrepresented my interjection. When he referred to the fact that  Mr Curtin  introduced conscription of troops who could not serve outside a defined area 1 said that that was to his everlasting shame.  Senator Cavanagh  distorted what I said by saying that my interjection implied that it was to  Mr Curtin's  everlasting shame that he introduced conscription. This distortion is typical. When I was speaking last night  Senator Cavanagh  interjected, referring to South Vietnam: Menzies said that the Communists would win if there were free elections'. Later in the evening he wanted to make an explanation because I had challenged that as a true quotation of the statement made by  Sir Robert  Menzies. I rise only to say that these instances are typical of the distortion which he accuses others of practising. He went on to quote from Hansard what  Sir Robert  Menzies said. Let me quote only the last part of what  Sir Robert  said: 
We must. therefore. not overlook the possibility- not that the Communists would win, as  Senator Cavanagh  said - that a free election may- again a qualification - be an election which establishes a Communist administration in the whole of Vietnam. 
I suggest that those are 2 clear examples of distortion by  Senator Cavanagh  which he seeks to hide or disguise by accusing others of engaging in distortion. 
Question put - 
That the proposed new clause  (Senator James McClelland's amendment)  be inserted in the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: What is the nationality of the aerodrome controller who was on duty in the tower at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport on the evening of 29th January 1.971? ls he still employed by the Department of Civil Aviation? 
 Senator Wheeldon  made a predictable speech and, as such, it is hardly worth commenting upon.  Senator Wheeldon  always seems to mistake smart alec comments as a substitute for logical debate. 1 think he was quite unfair to  Senator Byrne  when he accused him of seeing conspiracies everywhere. Perhaps that is an indication of  Senator Wheeldon's  own mind. In fairness to  Senator Byrne,  I do not agree with all he said. I do not believe that  Senator Byrne  put forward the proposition that the European Economic Community was some form of conspiracy but rather he tried to argue, on a reasoned and logical basis, the import to Australia of the entry of the United Kingdom to the EEC. It is on this aspect that T intend to concentrate. 
When  Senator Wheeldon  tries to equate the votes of Singapore and Malaysia in the United Nations to the fact that they really do not fear subversion inspired from the People's Republic of China, I wish to say to him only that perhaps he should go and speak to the leaders of the countries of South East Asia - and go with his ears open, his eyes open and his mind open - because he will find that each of those countries expressed grave concern at the continued subversion, the continued terrorism being practised in their territory by Communist terrorists. Indeed, only the other day Indonesia reported having discovered in a terrorist camp clear signs of Peking's involvement in this campaign. These arc the reports of the leaders of these countries. 
Having said that, 1 wish to concentrate on the great significance of the historic and momentous decision of the House of Commons to take the United Kingdom :i-to the European Economic Community, lt was a decision which was momentous not only to the United Kingdom but also, I suggest, to the world.  Senator Byrne  was correct in reminding us that the European Economic Community is not just a customs union. Indeed, it is a political union in the purest sense. The significance of the entry of the United Kingdom is, I believe, more in the political context than in the economic context. lt is significant also because of its effect upon Europe and the world. If one looks at the debates and the statements made by British leaders over the years I think it will be shown quite clearly that they saw their entry more in the political context than in the economic context. 
As  Senator Byrne  reminds us, we could quote the Treaty of Rome which indeed contemplates this. I have here an extract from a speech made on 2nd May 1967 by  Mr Harold  Wilson, the then Labour Prime Minister. What he envisaged is quite clear, because he said: 
Together we can ensure that Europe plays in world affairs the part which the Europe of today is not at present playing. For a Europe that fails to put forward its full economic strength will never have the political influence which I believe it could and should exert within the United Nations, with the Western Alliance, and as the means for effecting n lasting detente between East and West: and  equally  in contributing in ever fuller measure to the solution of the  North-South  problem, to the needs of the developing world. 
Honestly, you have been asleep for too long. 
Will  Senator Georges  allow me to make my speech without his help? If he were capable of understanding he would find out what I am posing. It is quite clear from  Mr Wilson  that he envisaged the entry of the United Kingdom as a means of developing a greater and fuller Europe. 
1 will come to the super state proposal. 
Oh dear, what a shallow mind! 1 now turn to  Mr Heath.  I think it is quite clear that  Mr Heath  envisaged the same thing, because he posed the question: 
How can British continue to exert in the world  a  strong and constant influence - in defence of her own interests, certainly, but also in the interests of commonsense and of humanity? 

 Mr Heath then went on to mention the great problems that faced the United Kingdom with which the House of Commons concerned itself but which could make little impact upon the world. He then continued: 
The fact is - and I think that almost all of us would recognise it today - that neither our membership of the United Nations, nor our membership of the Commonwealth, nor our natural relationship with the United States, has provided us with that leverage in world affairs for which the instinct of this House continues to ask. The same is increasingly true of our power to influence international agreements covering world trade and payments . . . 
The significance of the United Kingdom decision is that we now see being created in Europe a huge world 'force, a new super power - indeed, it might be said, a power capable of exercising enormous economic, political and, if need be, military power in the world, lt will be a power equal to, if not greater than, that of the United States, of the Soviet Union, of the People's Republic China, if it seeks to be a super power, and of Japan. In a world of growing super powers, if we were to assume that these 4 countries are super powers, Europe will be a fifth super power. The facts of life are that the United Kingdom with 55 million people could not play a part in world affairs, which she herself recognises. She is o longer able to exercise a major influence in the world, but there will be with the United Kingdom, Denmark and other countries as part of Europe a community of 255 million people - a population far greater than that of the United States, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or Japan. This will be a power of great economic strength. 
It has been argued that Europe has been an inward looking force, and there is some justification for that view. However, 1 believe that the main significance of the entry of the United Kingdom will be to bring into Europe outward looking influences. There are, within Europe, countries such as Germany which are outward looking and great trading nations. 1 believe that a significance of the United Kingdom's entry will be that Europe - one of the great trading blocs of the world - with outward looking policies will expand as a trading bloc and that it will expand its political influence beyond Europe into the outside world, including the Pacific and Indian Oceans, and in time throughout the eastern areas of the world. I believe that this is inevitable. With a growing capacity for investment and for aid and trade, there is no doubt that we will see developing in Europe a super state whose influence for good will be tremendous. This is why I have always believed the political aspect of the United Kingdom's entry to be more important than the economic aspect. 1 believe that most European countries wanted the United Kingdom as a member of the Community, not for any economic reason but because of the political influence that she would wield - a political influence that would introduce into the Community outward looking influences with regard to the world situation. The significance of this outlook is something that I believe we in the Senate should note. I deplore calamity howling over the United Kingdom's decision. I believe that we and others will suffer short term disadvantages but that in the long run - this is what we must interest ourselves in - the development of the European Economic Community into a community of 10 nations will exercise a balance of power influence throughout the world. I believe that it will be a counter to the other super states and that a community with the great experience of Europe cannot be other than a beneficial influence on world affairs. 
Although I would have liked to see somewhat different wording in the matter of urgency, I believe that it is well for us to take the opportunity to discuss these subjects in the Senate. I hope that there will be an endeavour to keep the debate on a high level and that it will not be dragged down by all the pettifogging little things of the kind that  Senator Wheeldon  introduced. The major issue is the decision by the United Kingdom to enter the European 
Economic Community, the effect of that decision upon us and its effect upon the world. 
I regret that it is necessary for the Senate to debate this type of legislation. I have been a wool grower almost all my life and I have always felt that the wool growing industry in Australia has been independent and has stood on its own feet. Regrettably today for many complex reasons the wool industry is going through a period of depression. I use the word 'depression' advisedly and not in any sense of panic. I believe that the worst that can happen to the wool industry is that it be regarded as finished. I do not believe that it is finished. If certain steps are taken the Australian wool industry has a future. There has certainly to be an adaptation to the present economic situation. 
The good old days have gone forever but I believe we can look to the future with confidence, despite the present situation. Today I will not discuss in a philosophical way the problems of the industry, marketing or anything of that nature. The second part of the amendment proposed by the Opposition suggests that most of the industry's problems can be solved by the establishment of a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip. 
I am not condemning any of the proposals put forward. 1 believe that we have to be flexible enough to meet changed circumstances, but it seems utterly stupid to believe that if we suddenly change the wool marketing system the world will pay more for our wool and our problems will be solved. I do not believe that. The problems of the wool industry are complex and mixed up with the financial and economic circumstances in other countries. They are mixed up wilh demand and I will speak very briefly on that aspect later. They are mixed up with so many factors that there is no one solution to the problems of the industry. 
Certainly to suggest that all the industry's problems would be solved by acquisition or some such scheme is, to say the least, naive and shows a complete lack of knowledge of the industry. This legislation is to operate for only 12 months and I sincerely trust that it will not be necessary to extend it. The Government has given the industry 12 months to put its house in order. 1 think it is most regrettable that the wool industry, in common with most primary industries, has never been able to agree upon anything. It is also naive to believe that the wool industry will agree upon a single factor. In the final resort the responsibility of leadership rests upon the Government. Finally the Government must make these decisions. 
I support the principles of the Bill but, as I said earlier. I do so with regret. I wish to refer to only two or three matters in the Bill which cause me concern. As the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake.Brockman),  who is at the table, is aware, certain matters have been discussed between some honourable senators on this side of the chamber, himself and other Ministers concerned. The first such matter relates to clause 9 of the Bill which provides that deficiency payments, except in the case of a private sale, are to be channelled through brokers. 1 accept the fact that brokers have played a part in financing wool growers but I do not accept that brokers should have preference over other creditors. 
The brokers are in business because it is a business. I do not accept that the brokers have always played the game. They are in it to get as much as they can out of it. I am in principle strongly opposed to their getting preferential treatment. Under the Bill they will have first claim upon the deficiency payment. It is immaterial whether we call it a deficiency payment or a subsidy, which it really is. 
I realise that problems are inherent in the scheme. I realise that the Government had to find some means by which the payments could be made administratively without building up a huge bureaucracy to do it. I do not believe that it is beyond the ability of the draftsmen to provide in the Bill provisions that the deficiency payment or subsidy - call it what you like - should go to the wool producer. It is true that the broker who has lent money has a claim over the remainder of the wool cheque, but I do not think Chat the Bill should give a benefit to the broker. 1 believe that the other creditors - the unsecured creditors, including the small shop keeper and other people in country towns - have some rights in this matter. 
My legal friends, including  Senator Durack,  have raised the subject of bankruptcy. The secured creditor - in this case, the broker - would have first claim and the unsecured creditors would get nothing. I view this matter with great concern. There was a period during which some of us on this side were considering moving an amendment. We have had long discussions. I ask the Minister whether he can give an assurance that the deficiency payment will go to the grower. That would be in line with what I know to be the Government's wish. I ask the Minister whether he can give some assurance that the brokers will accept this principle in the great majority of cases. There may be some cases in which the wool growers have not played the game. They are separate cases. 1 seek from the Minister an assurance that in the great majority of cases the brokers will accept in principle that the deficiency payment should go to the grower, which is the wish of the Government, and that he will make a decision as to which of his creditors will receive at least some of the deficiency payment. The brokers are entitled to some of it, but I do not accept the view that they are entitled to preferential treatment. 
The performance of the brokers will be watched by some of us. If we find that the wish of the Government is not being carried out the matter will be raised again in this chamber. If unfortunately - I sincerely hope this will not be necessary - the provisions of the legislation should have to be extended for another 12 months we will reassess the situation. We may well take a view different to the one that we are prepared to take at the moment. I again ask the Minister whether he can give us some assurance that the brokers will accept the principle which I know is the principle which the Government wishes to be honoured. 
The second point to which I wish to speak concerns private buying. I am inclined to take issue with  Senator Prowse  on this subject. I am not interested in the private buyer as a private buyer. I am interested in the wool grower who exercises his free choice and sells privately. Private selling is provided for in the Bill, and it has been an accepted practice for many years. Two committees established by the Australian Wool Board have examined private buying and its effect upon the market. The reports of those committees have indicated that it has no serious detrimental effect on the market. I fully acknowledge that figures can prove anything. One could produce figures to prove one's case, but the fact remains that, in Western Australia particularly, about 25 per cent of wool growers make a free choice to sell privately. It is also a fact that the major buyers are those who are the biggest buyers on the floor. 1 have seen figures which I will not quote because again I acknowledge that figures can prove anything but which show clearly that in Western Australia the prices for the various grades of wool are as high if not higher than they are in other States. Historically Western Australia is the State in which there is the greatest proportion of private buying. We could argue about prices and about the manner in which they are determined, but the fact is that about 25 per cent of wool growers exercise a freedom of choice and sell privately. We have to remember that a large number of wool growers, because of their financial commit- ments, are forced to sell through brokers. I have a letter from a wool grower whom I know well and whose figures I would not dispute because, among other qualifications, he is a mathematician.  His  figures show that over a number of years he has made considerable financial gains by selling privately. He quoted his figures to me. I think that they should be quoted here so that we can get into some perspective the reason why wool growers sell privately. 
He sold for 8 consecutive years by auction and for 4 consecutive years privately. He has calculated these figures: At auction his highest price was 50.7c per lb. By private sale his highest price was 56.3c per lb. The lowest price at auction was 47.15c per lb. By private sale it was 54.8c per lb. His average over 8 years at auction was 49.62c per lb. By private sale over 4 years it was 55.4c per lb. He averaged 11.65 per cent per lb more for the wool he sold privately. I have already said that figures can prove anything. I repeat that these figures were supplied by a man whom I know well - a mathematician - and 1 would be very much inclined to accept his figures. I suppose that in my district in Western Australia there is the biggest proportion of private selling in that State. I do know that those who sell privately claim that over a long period they gain. It matters not whether they gain or lose; it is their decision. They believe that they gain by selling privately. 
This brings me to the point that the Bill, regardless of one's opinion about private selling  -  I  respect  the people who believe that private selling is damaging; they have a point of view - apparently discriminates against those who sell privately. The opinion has been expressed by 2 committees that it is not damaging. This is a matter of opinion. Nevertheless, 25 per cent to 30 per cent of growers in Australia sell privately. lt would appear that under this legislation these people are being discriminated against because the deficiency payment is calculated on the net price or the on-farm price, whereas the Commissioner of Taxation makes a judgment and the wool tax is calculated on the on-farm price plus - no doubt it is an arbitrary figure - a little over 3c per kilo. I do not argue that it should be 3c or 2c. But I do argue that there is a logic in the argument put forward by the growers. I am not interested in the buyers; I am interested in the growers who sell privately. They argue that because they have to accept the on-farm price there is a measure - I use the word measure' advisedly - of discrimination against them. They argue that the grower who sells through the broker is being favoured because his deficiency payment is calculated on a price that includes all the handling charges. 
Because the Government wants this Bill to be passed today, I resist the temptation to start quoting the handling charges, which are considerable. I believe that the Government could have given more attention to basing the deficiency payment on the net price rather than the gross price including all the handling charges, which may be based upon efficient or inefficient handling by the brokers. I regret to say that I do not accept the fact that the brokers handle- 
My friend,  Senator Maunsell,  who lives near Longreach which is far removed from Brisbane, suggests that his transport costs would be greater and that he could be penalised. I accept that as being an argument. There is no doubt that the private buyer makes some allowances for those charges. But I do not accept the fact- 
Yes, it is better. But it is what the buyers feel they can pay. Various factors are involved, because they are buying on firm orders and they know the price at which they can deliver the wool to the eventual buyer. I think this has to be taken into account. There is no question in their minds that these are not firm orders which they have well ahead. Therefore, there are certain advantages in this method. Nevertheless, whilst I do not accept the view that the complete handling charge should be added. I think a system could be arrived at which would be less discriminatory than the present net price system. 
I am not prepared to make an issue of this matter at the moment. But, if the legislation were to be reintroduced, some of lis might need to make a further examination of this matter and obtain further facts. It may be that we would take a different attitude from the one which we take now. Let me say, in putting these arguments, that a lot more research needs to be done on them. I raise the matter because 1 think it may be one which has not been properly researched. Perhaps more research is needed on my side. But I raise it because there are many wool growers - not wool buyers - who feel that they are being discriminated against and who are somewhat hostile at the moment. I do not go any further than that. I raise the issue and I make the points that I have made. I merely say that should this legislation have to be reintroduced - I sincerely hope that it will not and I do not believe that it will - I and others may have to take a serious look at this matter. 
The final point I. wish to make is this: I believe that one of the great problems of wool today - perhaps the major problem - is that it is being outsold by artificial fibres. It seems extraordinary to me that in a country such as Australia one of the biggest retail stores in Perth - I can only go on what I was told by a wool grower - had only 5 pairs of woollen slacks the other day when he went to buy a pair. All the others were made of artificial fibres. It seems to me that either the stores are meeting a public demand or they find it more economical to sell artificial fibres. I believe that if an increase in the price of wool is to take place we have to create a greater demand for it throughout the world. 1 refuse to accept the argument that wool is overproduced. I do not believe it is overproduced. There may be certain types of wool which are overproduced. I believe that we have to get down to the hard, cold facts of life and produce a type of wool which is required. I do not accept the fact that wool that is in demand and can meet the challenges is overproduced. I believe the problem is that wool is not in demand. 
I will not be critical of the International Wool Secretariat in its promotion of wool. On some occasions that body has done a good job. But, if the demand for wool is falling as a proportion of the world fibre market, we have to question seriously whether we are keeping up to date with our promotion. I am told that artificial fibres are sold to the public under 50 or more trade names. Every couple of months or so a new super-duper fibre is promoted and we are told that this fibre far surpasses the previous one. 
This is correct. This is promotion. This is selling to the public. It is something new, and the public is accepting this. There may be some slight difference in the finishing process or something of this sort, but in essence it is the same fibre. I have discussed this with people in this field and they agree with this: For too long we have been trying to sell wool as wool and as the best fibre in the world. But it is obvious that the pubic are not accepting that, because they are not buying wool. We have to try some new approach to the problem. The wool mark initially was a great success. But I question whether the wool mark is making any impact upon the buying public today. If we are lo sell wool and increase the demand for it, we have to adopt modern techniques in selling, follow the example of the artificial fibre manufacturers who have been most successful in selling their product and adopt some new name. Never mind about selling it as wool; we should sell it as something which attracts the public. 
Recently, a cheap method of resin coating wool fibre was discovered. This was something new and important. How did we promote it? It has not been promoted very successfully. Perhaps we should promote it in an easy way. Somebody has suggested that, if we spelt 'easy care' not e-a-s-y c-a-r-e but with a little more sophistication, this might attract the public. But certainly I believe that if we are to sell wool to the public we have to adopt modern selling techniques. One of the greatest problems we have is that we are trying to sell wool to the world with outdated promotion. The only thing for us to do is to learn from those who are being more successful than we are in promoting a different fibre which I do not believe, and which I do not believe the public believes, is as good as wool. But they are certainly being successful. 
Therefore, I make this point: We can change all our marketing systems and everything else but unless we get wool on people's backs in the form of clothing we are not being successful and wool has no future. For wool to have a future, a demand must be created for it so that everyone in this Senate is wearing wool, our wives are wearing it, our children are wearing it and everybody in the street is wearing it. Until &gt; we succeed in this objective, we can talk about acquisition and everything else which may make a difference of lc or 2c per lb but we will not be selling the wool that we are producing. 1 conclude my remarks by saying that I believe we need to adopt a new attack on world markets. We need to persuade the people by clever promotion to buy woollen goods. Until we do this, wool will not have the future that I believe it could have if these techniques were adopted. I support the Bill. I hope that the comments that I have made will be noted. Although I support this Bill this year, unless certain undertakings are forthcoming or unless the intentions of the Government are carried out by wool brokers, if this legislation needs to be renewed next year - and I hope that it will not - we should have another look at it then. I would wish to do more research on the question of private buying. If 1 believe after that research that the people who elect by free choice to sell privately are being discriminated against, I shall have something to say on a future occasion. I leave it on no higher basis than that. 
It might be more than that, but it is at least 48 per cent Australian equity. Without the risk capital which came from the United States in the 1930s Mount Isa would have closed down and 1,000 men would have lost their jobs. If we go back to the food processing industry we will find that United States capital has rescued ailing Australian companies which are closing down. Not only have these companies been restored but they have been expanded, thus providing more employment opportunities, greater skills for Australian workers and gains to the Australian economy. We have to keep a balance in this situation. Certainly we all wish to encourage greater Australian equity. To talk about Australia being taken over by foreign companies or foreign control is so much humbug. I think the Minister for Civil Aviation quoted figures in relation to investment in Australia which showed that, by far, Australians are the greatest investors in our industry. While foreign companies overall play a major part in developing Australian industries they certainly do not play a dominating part. 
Get on to Mount Newman and Gove. 
Subsequently Kaiser Steel Corporation sold another block of its shares at $5.17 a share and it now has 33 per cent of the 
Hamersley group going for nil. Is this the sort of investment that honourable senators opposite want. This is the sort of thing that they want to talk about. Great play is being made about a gentleman in Western Australia called Lang Hancock. As I. said earlier, he was granted the Hamersley deposits. He was also granted the reservation at Paraburdoo which he let out on royalties to t'he Hamersley group. He was also granted the reservations at Koodiaderie which he has also let out to Hamersley on royalties. He was granted the Rhodes Ridge deposits which he is negotiating to Texas Gulf Sulphur. This man is taking practically the whole of the Pilbara iron province. It is probably the biggest iron province in the world. He has not put one penny into it. Every reservation which he obtains he sells to someone else. I know that at the present time there is some litigation going on in relation to the Angelas deposits. I am a little sad about the Angelas deposits, because no sooner did the Western Australian Government have those deposits returned to it through court action than it granted them to an American company, Armco Resources Pty Ltd. Again the big reservations of iron ore go into overseas hands. One reservation which one can look at with some little pride is Mount Newman. It is two-thirds Australian owned. It is owned 33i per cent by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and 33i per cent by Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. The other 33J per cent is owned by Amax Mining Inc. of America. That is the only company with a substantial Australian equity in that great province. The rest of it is owned overseas. If any honourable senator wants to know what Australia gets out of this, I remind him that the latest figures I have been able to get were the 1968 figures in relation to Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd. That company produced 10 million tons of iron ore, made a profit of $20m and employed 357 men. It paid no tax on that profit because of the capital investment. The only return to the Australian people was the income tax imposed on the salaries of the workers plus, of course, the tax paid on the royalties that Hancock received. 

 Senator Sim also talked about  Mr Tonkin  sending  Mr Graham  and  Mr May  to Japan to negotiate overseas investment in Australia. I think that Mr: Graham and  Mr 
May went to Japan to write contracts, not so much for investment. But whatever was the situation, there does not exist now, nor has there existed in the past 10 or IS years, a State Premier who has not gone overseas or sent his Ministers overseas in order to sell Australia. Every one of them has done it.  Mr Tonkin  is not the only one.  Mr Askin  and  Sir Henry  Bolte also have been overseas for the purpose of selling Australia. Let me remind the Senate that the Australian Labor Party is not opposed to overseas investment but it is opposed to uncontrolled overseas investment. There are avenues open to the Australian Government to retain an equity for the Australian people. 
We can learn a lesson from what happened in relation to the Bougainville copper. Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd wanted to develop the Bougainville copper. It was told that it could develop it on condition that it made available 20 per cent of its holding to the Administration of Papua New Guinea at par. In last year's Budget we loaned the Administration of Papua New Guinea the money to take up that 20 per cent interest. Why cannot the Government force upon overseas investors some joint venture operations in order that Australia will be able to maintain an interest in its raw resources. It need not necessarily be a 20 per cent interest; it might even be a 40 per cent interest; it will differ from industry to industry. What is wrong with the Government endeavouring to persuade overseas investors in the raw resources of Australia to do some processing of those raw resources in Australia. I have referred to the number of people employed by Hamersley Iron. We are running into a pool of unemployment but we could increase opportunities for employment in Australia by insisting that certain processing be carried out in this country. 

 Senator Byrne spoke about the Burmah Oil Australia Ltd-Woodside Oil NL takeover or merger, and I wish to refer to it also. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a document which was sent to me by  Mr Hughes-Jones  entitled 'Who is to Control this Key Australian Asset', which refers to natural gas. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
WHO IS TO CONTROL THIS KEY AUSTRALIAN ASSET? 
TO ALL CONCERNED IN THE FUTURE OF OUR NATION: 
In May of this year a decision was taken by the Boards of Woodside Oil N.L. (of which I am a member) and its affiliated company, Mid-Eastern Oil, te farm-out portion of their equity in 140,000 square miles of tenements extending from a little north of Barrow Island to Northern Territory waters. The locality may be termed, for the purposes of brevity, the North-West Shelf. 
Briefly, the history of the leases involved is that they were taken up initially by Woodside and Mid-Eastern. Some were granted by the Government of the Commonwealth and some by the Government of Western Australia. 
As the art of deep water drilling developed, interest in these tenements mounted and there was no shortage of overseas aspirants for a stake in them when a decision was reached by Woodside and Mid-Eastern that they alone could not foot the huge bill that seismic and drilling programmes would involve. 
This necessitated approval of the Commonwealth and Western Australian Governments and this was forthcoming to a three-way split which gave Shell a  33i per  cent interest, Burmah Oil 33i, and Woodside and Mid-Eastern combined 33i per cent. There were other lesser considerations to the agreement involving a period in which the Australian interests were carried and a cash payment that would accrue to them in the event of production of oil or gas. 
Shell, however, was party to an agreement with Caltex in which, it seems, they were to share equally in any prospecting interest either might acquire in Western Australia. This resulted in a split of Shell's interest. Something of a similar kind obtained between Burmah and BP. The result is that today the owners of the leases are Shell 16i, Caltex 16*, Burmah 163, BP 16), Woodside 25, and Mid-Eastern 8i per cent. Burmah was made operator for the consortium. 
Burmah is. in addition, a 31 per cent shareholder in Woodside. 
A very flattering response was received to the recent farm-out proposal. One candidate, for instance, offered a very substantial sum in cash and a big interest-free loan, which placed the total value of the lease at well into the minefigure bracket, even before the present finds of gas and condensate. 
Nevertheless, Burmah, by virtue of an agreement under which it subscribed for its 31 per cent shareholding in Woodside, exercised its right to veto the farm-out, at the same time acknowledging that this action imposed a responsibility on it to assist Woodside. 
Woodside, at this stage, had as cash in hand, as calling power and as unpaid premium for Burmah's shares, sufficient funds to carry through its share of the exploration programme for about two years. Mid-Eastern was in a similar position. 
Woodside's shares, at that time, were at a discount on the Stock Exchanges of Australia and the position looked grim, lt seemed most unlikely that the market would support new issues of capital. 
But, within a matter of days, an important change came over the scene. Drilling of both the Rankin North No. 1 and Scott's Reef No. 1 wells was yielding strong evidence of hydrocarbons. Testing could not take place until termination of the holes, but it has since proved the existence of huge reserves of gas and of condensate. Condensate, of course, can bring higher prices than crude oil. 
The Honourable the Minister for National Development,  Mr Swartz,  and the Honourable the Minister for Mines in Western Australia, considered these results of sufficient importance to justify pronouncements on their part, and. because any facts we have been given are second hand, I choose to quote statements by Burmah representatives at a Press Conference in Perth. 
The Melbourne Sun News-Pictorial, reporting the Conference, said: 
The well intersected a gas reservoir 1,857 feet thick (in Rankin North No. 1) in which there were 10 pay zones containing gas and condensate. Total thickness of these zones was 1,020 feet. 
Exploration manager of BOC of Australia Ltd,  Mr D.  R. McDonald, yesterday, described it as a superb reservoir". 
The group is looking to proving up reserves in the field, which covers 50 square miles, of a minimum of 4,000,000,000,000 (4 trillion) cubic feet of gas. "However, the group is known lo be confident of having much bigger reserves than this. 
The reservoir intersected by the North Rankin well is thicker than any one of the Bass Strait finds and almost half as thick again as the huge natural gas field discovered in the North Sea. 

 Mr McDonald said yesterday that the public generally was not aware of the value of a natural gas find. 
But the group sees the potential of the North Rankin well as similar in value lo a 30,000 barrels a day oil flow.' 
Further on, the report reads: "BOC's operations manager in Western Australia.  Mr Lindsay  Franklin, said yesterday that the North Rankin well had so far indicated that a deposit big enough to support a commercial venture h;ul been found. 
He said there would be more than enough for the Stale's industrial requirements. 
It could be a cheap form of power for iron ore and bauxite plants and it could also be shipped to Japan or the West Coast of the United States', he stated. 

 Mr Franklin said the Japanese were aggressive seekers of natural gas as an energy source. "The group is looking for a daily production rate of 500 million cubic feet of gas from the field. 
This would mean the simultaneous production of more than 10,000 barrels of condensate a day,. 
Condensate is an almost colourless liquid rich in petrol and by-products. It is in demand as a fuel and sells for about the same price as crude oil. 
An offshore platform on the structure could  cost  $15 to $20m. The platform at the site would have to be as high as a 50-storey building. 
A pipeline 84 miles to the nearest land could cost $40-$50m and plant to liquify the gas another $150m.' 
The costs could total $220m and Woodside's share on this basis could be $55m. But let us take a longer term view and put Woodside s requirements at $80m. 
Fortunately Scott's Reef, for which production estimates are not yet available but could be great, has a neighbourhood island on which it is thought a liquifying plant for the Japanese and other overseas markets could be established. This would obviate the need for a liquifying plant on the mainland at this stage, but the possibilities in this regard not only be finally determined by feasibility programmes and the drilling of step-our wells. 
Importantly, meanwhile, there are a number of other and bigger structures which are believed to bc on the same trends and drilling has started on Rankin No. 1 and Bedout No. 1. The Bedout structure alone has been said to extend over 750 square miles. This would be huge in anybody's language. 
Besides gas and condensate there is, of course, always the possibility of obtaining crude oil from one or more of the structures. We proved a flow of 1,014 barrels a day from an earlier well. Legendre No. 1, but this was not considered to be commercial. 
To determine just how far Burmah was willing to go in fulfilment of the responsibility it had incurred through use of the veto on a farm-out, our  Chairman, Mr  3.  G. Donaldson, went to London for conferences with the Burmah Board. 
As a result of this he brought back a proposal for the formation of a joint company in which Burmah would hold 50.3 per cent of the issued shares. 
This gives Burmah control of the company and, in spite of the very convenient facade of an Australian Chairman and an Australian Board, it will undoubtedly call the shots as it has done already as evidenced by ils use of (he veto. 
Woodside, Mid-Eastern and Burmah will each put their respective interests into the new company, Woodside-Burmah. and these total 50 per cent of the holdings of the six partners. 
In other words. Burmah will have command of 50 per cent of the leases in the North-West and to this should probably be added the influence it probably has in BP in which it is a very major shareholder. 
Not only, then, would Australia lose all control of what could prove its richest asset, but effective control is being vested in one overseas company. This fact, while it may not attain its full significance until more is known of the actual gas, condensate and oil content of the North-West areas, could well prove in the years ahead to bc a calamity of lbc first order. It could in fact be little short of a national disaster. 
Woodside and Mid-Eastern Directors were called together on Tuesday of last week and told of the proposal. We were required to finalise the matter on the Thursday morning with virtually little opportunity to come up with alternative methods of financing our needs. 
I, alone, objected to the scheme and felt it necessary to tell my fellow members of the Woodside Board that I would fight it in other places and in every way at my command. 1 was asked if 1 proposed to resign but said that 'No. I could fight it much more effectively from within.' 
Perhaps the most fruitful course open to me is to obtain the ear of the Commonwealth and Western Australian Governments which have, presumably, to approve the transfer of the shares if it is wished to take them out of the names of the present owners and put them into the new company. 
However, the companies may avoid this by leaving them in the names of Woodside, MidEastern and Burmah, and taking these over as subsidiaries. 
If this be done, all that may remain for the Governments to do is to give the parties concerned a clear statement of their attitudes to the proposals. Such a statement could weigh heavily with them. 
Other courses open to me are to. marshal public opinion on the matter but this is not easy for an individual, nor is it within the realm of possibility for an individual to circularise the 30 or 40,000 shareholders of Woodside and Mid-Eastern. 
Additionally, it would be an uphill fight with the numbers heavily stacked against mc from the outset. As stated, Burmah already holds 31 per cent of the capital of Woodside and the interests of the  Chairman  and associates could mean that the proponents of the scheme have a 40 per cent holding from the start. 
Mid-Eastern might hold better prospects in this regard, but. here again, the proponents of the scheme are in a strong position and it has been said thai the Mid-Eastern situation 'has been taken care of. This could, although it is only conjecture, explain how it is that Woodside shareholders are lo receive 1 share in the new company for one now held in Woodside, whereas Mid-Eastern shareholders are to receive 4 for 5. Their entitlement is clearly only 4 for 6. 1 summarise, now, the reasons for my opposition to the proposal. 
As an Australian  i  think it is imperative that a halt be called to overseas domination of a key Australian industry. The industry needs a measure of overseas help but not to the extent of complete control. Particularly is this the case with the NorthWest Shelf which could prove to be Australia's greatest bonanza. In this regard, there is a tendency hi the moment lo say it is too early to make such predictions. Al this stage, therefore. I have confined any figures herein lo Burmah's own predictions. 
Burmah s interests may not coincide with Australia's interests. Burmah could be styled an industrial giant. It has interests in many parts of the world. It is not an unfair exercise ot the mind to picture a situation in which, say, the world ruling price for natural gas in liquified form is of the order of 20c a thousand cubic feet. The cost of production by Australia could be, say, 10c. whereas the cost of production elsewhere in the Burmah stable could be 7c. To which source would an overseas company such as Burmah be likely to turn for supplies? We could hardly expect it to be Australia. (The figures used are not intended to relate to possible costs and profits. They are purely hypothetical. Nevertheless, 10c a thousand cubic feet may be a reasonable profit margin and would put total potential profit from North Rankin structure alone at $400mM 
Burmah's interests may not coincide with those of other shareholders. Not only could Australia's interests suffer, but for the same reasons shareholders could suffer badly. Election bv Burmah to allow its NorthWest interests to remain fallow at am stage could disappoint shareholders and cause their shares to come on the market, where, if it. be so minded. Burmah could buy them, thus increasing its control. 
While I personally believe this mav not be the policy of the present generation of Burmah directors and Australian representatives, it, like everything else, is subject to change. We have seen the danger of top representation in Australia being changed, already. It has happened twice in our experience. 
Even conceding the goodwill of the present generation of Burmah personnel, every Australian must already be concerned to see the control of 2 out of 4 of Australia's gas fields steadily, but surely, falling into Burmah's hands. On top of the threatened final erosion of Australian control in the North-West it is a matter of concern that the South Australian fields, which are now supplying Adelaide and will be supplying Sydney, are steadily falling under Burmah's dominance. Not only does the proposed company directly extend Burmah's influence in South Australia, and not only has Burmah by virtue of its interest in Santos got a sizable holding in the South Australian field, but recently it has made a successful bid for a controlling interest in Reef Oil which, in turn, has an interest in the field, and already controls Basin Oil. 
On completion of the present exercise involving Woodside and Mid-Eastern, Burmah's interest in the South Australian fields would be something like (his: 
BURMAH OF LONDON 
100 per cent of 50.3 per cent of 
Burmah Oil Australia Burmah-Woodside 
Ltd 53 per cent of Vamgas. 27 per cent of Santos up to 65 per cent of Reef 50 per cent of Basin plus Reef's 30 per cent of Basin. (The two holdings in Basin give Burmah an effective 50 per cent of Basin.) 
Santos, Reef, Basin, and Woodside and Mid-Eastern all have holdings in the South Australian field. It would be interesting to determine the full extent of Burmah's control in respect of this field, but obviously it is intent on dominance. I have not had time to work out the full significance of this web of interests, but I suggest that these facts, in themselves, indicate a trend that could become a source of deep concern to Australian Governments in the years ahead, and could have an important bearing on the lives of all of us. 
It is argued that Woodside would not be able to raise the sums of money needed to develop the huge gas deposits of the Northwest Shelf. When I challenged at our Board meeting that this had not been properly researched I was told that Poseidon and a number of others had not been able to raise locally the funds they need. Why, it was asked, should we expect to be able to do what others have been unable to do. Over the years, in my negotiations at Government level on behalf of clients, I have always found the impossible a worthwhile challenge and perhaps I am too prone to say that nothing is impossible. To reinforce my belief that the Australian money market could be prepared to help in the development of this key Australian industry, I have discussed the position with some influential people, and although they naturally could not give a firm answer I was left in no doubt that they would be pleased to look very sympathetically at any proposal we might submit. Accordingly, I asked our Board for deferment of consideration of the matter for one month and for the appointment of a committee of which, I suggested, 1 might be convenor. There was no seconder for this motion and I felt constrained to ask why members of the Board should be so hell-bent in their desire to surrender control of this Australian asset to overseas interests. We had money to tide us over for quite a few months and urgency could not be pleaded as an ingredient of the position. 
It was argued, too, that the potential of the North-West Shelf was becoming 'too big for us' to handle and that we would be out of our depth in it. It was said that we needed the assistance of someone like Burmah to handle it. I must agree that this is correct in certain respects, but I cannot help wondering what a Board of some of Australia's greats of the past and of the present would do in similar circumstances. I think of what men of the calibre of the late W. S. Robinson, the late  Sir Essington  Lewis, and some men of the present generation, would have done. Our companies patently need the help of the best brains Australia can produce. I am an Australian to the core and believe that even the ability and determination of the right Board the integrity of Woodside and Mid-Eastern could be maintained and at least a worthwhile measure of Australian control of the North-West Shelf could be assured. As hateful and offensive as such an idea would be to my political beliefs, I am firmly of opinion that failing all else it would be better far to nationalise our industry than to drop it so lightly into overseas hands. 
There are many more things I could say, but the foregoing will more than satisfy readers that it is a matter of the gravest concern and demands remedial action immediately. As the matter stands there are inherent in it a number of the gravest dangers. 
Thanking you for your patience. 
N. Hughes-Jones. 
If honourable senators look at the diagram contained in this document they will find that Burmah of London owned 100 per cent of Burmah Oil Australia Ltd, 27 per cent of Santos, up to 65 per cent of Reef Oil, 50 per cent of Basin Oil, plus Reef Oil's 30 per cent holding in Basin Oil. It is one of the largest companies operating in the Cooper Basin in South Australia. So not only the gas found on the north shelf of Australia, including the Northern Territory, is overseas owned, but also 50 per cent of the Bass Strait gas is owned overseas. Also Burmah is moving in with a monopoly of the South Australian gas. Yet this Government sits back and does nothing about it. It allows this valuable asset that belongs to the Australian people - not to the Government, to the Liberal Party or the Country Party but to the people of Australia - to be taken away by overseas investors as they like. Do honourable senators think that the companies will be influenced by what happens in Australia? lt will be influenced by the decisions that are made in the board of directors rooms in New York and London. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is a master  of the  question 'Have you stopped beating your wife?' He repeated the allegation he made years ago that the Government was financed by all sorts of odd corporations, which he failed to name, and that they were manipulating the Government. When we ask him to prove it, he asks us to deny it. I suggest to  Senator Murphy  that  if  he wants to be taken seriously and not to be regarded as 
Speaking  a lot of gibberish, it  is  his responsibility to prove his allegations. It is not the responsibility of somebody else to deny them. Turning now to this debate,  Senator Murphy  accepted and then qualified that  Dr Brash  was an authority. 1 believe his qualification was the result of second thoughts. Perhaps  Senator Murphy  has read  Dr Donald  Brash's book 'American Investment in Australian Industry' from which I will quote a little in a short while. 
It is rather interesting that  Dr Brash  started off by referring to the fact that the Australian Labor Party has been hostile to foreign investment. He went on to say that its criticism, like that of politicians in some other parties, was more emotive than scientific. I would almost substitute the word 'hysterical' for 'scientific' because from time to time a note of hysteria comes into the voices of some members of the Labor Party - not all - when we are discussing foreign investment. I do not deny - indeed, I believe  it  is true - that there is a growing concern in Australia over foreign investment, a concern which  is  justified in some areas, although in some  it is  probably more emotive than scientific. I recognise this. I feel some concern with respect to foreign investment  in  some areas. I welcomed, as I noted  Senator Murphy  welcomed, the statement made by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  in which he laid down guidelines for foreign investment. I still support those guidelines and the measures that he announced. I believe that they were correct and that they should be followed. 
On the subject of the encouragement of foreign investment in Australia I take issue with  Senator Murphy  when he says that Australia has gained no real benefit or any great benefit as the result of our mineral development because the outflow from capital earnings has been so large. As it is not my wish to misquote the honourable senator, if what I have said is not correct, I would invite him to contradict me. I think that his view of this great mineral development is pretty naive because, whatever  Senator Murphy  may say. I do not believe that this development would have been possible without foreign investment which, in the case of our mining industry, came from the United States. This was risk capital of a very high order. Large sums of money were involved. The truth is that not only was money of this nature not available in Australia but also that Australians were unwilling to indulge in this type of risk investment. 
This fact is proved by the problems that were experienced in obtaining Australian equity in the Mt Newman undertaking and the problems that have arisen recently at AMAX, which is a large development in the Kimberleys area of Western Australia, in obtaining Australian equity. The Gove bauxite project ran into problems when a 50 per cent Australian equity was sought. Frankly, this is the sort of equity which I would like to see in this type of development. Indeed, I would not mind if the equity were higher. I could quote plenty of examples of the problems associated with endeavours to obtain Australian equity in mining development either because the money is not available or, more probably, because Australians are not willing to invest in this type of enterprise. Plenty of evidence to prove this point is available. 
I note with some interest and applaud - I do not make these remarks critically - the statement made recently by the Labor Premier of Western Australia who, since taking office, has sent 2 of his ministers, the Minister for Mines and Minister for the North West, and the Minister for Industrial Development and Decentralisation, to Japan to seek Japanese capital to ensure the continued development of the mineral resources of Western Australia. I mention this because it seems to me that the Labor Party has 2 standards. In a publication that I have here, the Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  is quoted as having said: 
We won't put any restriction on any company seeking to invest in Western Australia's mineral resources. 
Obviously,  Mr Tonkin  sent his Ministers overseas to obtain investments without restrictions. 
When I heard  Senator Cavanagh  making his remarks I thought that what he said would be valid if we were living in a world of make believe, but unfortunately we are not. I am not sure whether  Senator Cavanagh  was speaking for the Australian Labor Party because, as I understand it, one faction of the Labor Party has declared that it would not reduce the defence vote. It has stated that it believes in the defence of Australia. But as 1 understood  Senator Cavanagh,  he does not think that we need defence forces. Perhaps the Labor Party should make up its mind on this and decide whether  Senator Cavanagh  was expressing the official view of the Party or his own view. 
If we were living in a world in which everybody believed in peace we could afford the luxury of not having a defence force, but unfortunately we do not live in such a world. Other countries, including the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the People's Republic of China, are spending mammoth amounts of money to provide defence forces, lt would be an act of utter stupidity if Australia, which is in  an unstable part of. the world in which there is a constant threat of one sort or another, did not try to provide for itself credible defence forces at least. 
This Bill seeks the consent of Parliament to borrow $90m from the Export-Import Bank of the United States to enable us to purchase defence equipment. One of the great problems facing Australia today is that we are lagging behind in the provision of modern equipment for our defence forces. The cost of this equipment is growing and, sooner or later, a decision will have to be made to re-equip our defence forces with much of the modern armoury which is required for the Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Navy. It is all very well for  Senator Cavanagh  to cite remarks made by  Mrs Bandaranaike  who has a pipe dream about the Indian Ocean being a zone of peace. This is a wonderful ideal but, as I said earlier, we do not live in an ideal world. The Soviet Union does not support this proposition. It is sending naval forces into the Indian Ocean. It does not accept the dream that it should be a zone of peace. Perhaps it would be better if  Senator Cavanagh  addressed his remarks to the leaders of the Soviet Union. I do not believe that it is possible to think of the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace. For it to be such would depend not upon nations but upon a global settlement. 
 Senator Cavanagh  is living in a world of make believe. What can Australia do? It can express pious hopes and pious feelings, but does any honourable senator think that if we express these feelings the leaders of the Soviet Union will say: 'You are good fellows; we will withdraw our naval ships from the Indian Ocean'? It is just not on. I noted also that  Senator Cavanagh  made the comment that the Soviet Union was playing the game as much as the United States was with regard to atomic testing. I found this to be an interesting comment. The United States is an open society and it announces to the world weeks - sometimes months - beforehand that it is going to conduct a nuclear test, but the Soviet Union never announces it to the world. The only indication that the world has it through modern instru ments which monitor testing in the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union is a closed society - not an open society. I suggest that those remarks answer the arguments which were put forward by  Senator Cavanagh. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to assist with finance to equip the defence forces. Because of a continuing need, unfortunate as it may be, we must provide for Australia a credible defence force. It is rather useless to talk of whether we are likely to face a threat in 5 or 10 years time. What are we to do? Should we wait until the threat develops and then start to train and equip our forces? I believe that Australia's defence depends on constant preparedness. Our defence forces cannot be built up in a day. They need years of training and they need also modern equipment. This Bill will help us to provide that equipment. For those reasons I support the Bill. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we request the Commonwealth Government to make representations to the Government of the Soviet Union expressing the deep concern of a large section of Australians of East European origin and other Australians at the harsh treatment of prisoners of conscience in the Soviet Union and the non-implementation by the Soviet Union of the Declaration of Human Rights. 
To instruct the Representatives of the Commonwealth Government at the United Nations to bring this matter before the United Nations, in particular the case of Valentyn Moroz sentenced to 14 years of hard labour for conducting allegedly anti-Soviet propaganda. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a statement made by the Labor  Deputy  Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Graham,  who has just returned from an overseas tour. He said that 'overseas companies are raring to go with their plans for Western Australia' and that he did not think local resentment would discourage overseas companies from coming here, but it would not be very helpful. Does the Minister support this bipartisan approach to overseas investment? Will he note that  Mr Graham's  views are in direct conflict with the policy of the Australian Labour Party as expressed in this Parliament? 
As to the question on capital investment, the Commonwealth has always been a capital hungry country. We are about 12 milion people with a vast continent. We need capital investment for our development. In fairness to everybody I think I should say that the tremendous progress which we have made in Australia has been significantly aided by our capacity to attract overseas investment to Australia. Everybody knows that. Everybody knows, also, that although Australians themselves invest in Australia's development we wiil continue to need this overseas capital. The present rate of investment coming into Australia is significant. Capital investment is a shy bird. We have such wonderful capital investment coming into Australia because of security and confidence in the form of government which we have in Australia. When anybody in a high place in government starts to express a contrary view concerning investment coming into Australia and the proper safeguards which we employ, he is doing a grave injustice to Australia's development. 
I present the report of Estimates Committee C together with minutes of proceedings. I also table the Hansard report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General ascertain whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission intends to provide viewers in the eastern States with an opportunity to see the programme Today Tonight' shown in Perth on 23rd November in which  Mr Hawke  became very angry and threatened to walk out, until pacified bv the interviewer, when confronted by a prominent member of the Liberal Party,  Mr Ian  Viner, the endorsed candidate for the electorate of Stirling? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry: What factors are taken into account when considering whether suitably equivalent goods are available in Australia? Is price one of the factors considered? Could the term 'suitably equivalent' be defined in understandable terms? 
I am irrevocably opposed to the proposal to set up a joint select committee. I am opposed on principle to joint select committees. If the Senate wishes to have an investigation it should be done by the Senate and not by a committee jointly formed with the other House. I hold this view for a number of reasons. 
No, 1 do not wish to amend it. One of my reasons for being opposed to joint committees is that the rules and functions of the 2 Houses are different. We do not want to become involved in joint committees. I do not think many of them have been satisfactory. The Senate, through its secretariat, has been able to handle the committees we have now without becoming involved with another place. A further reason for my opposition to the proposal is that senators, certainly on this side of the chamber and I' believe also on the other side of the chamber, are not available for long inquiries. Most of us are already heavily involved in Senate committees now. The system will only stand as long as inquiries are conducted properly, thoroughly and promptly. I cannot see how senators would be available to sit on more committees. I agree that immigration is an important subject on which today there are wide differences of opinion. 
I congratulate  Senator Mulvihill  not only on his great interest in and knowledge of immigration but also on the way in which he presented his case. Whatever the merits of his argument may be, T find that I must oppose the establishment of a joint committee and that 1 cannot support, as my friend  Senator Georges  suggested 1 might, the reference of this subject to a Senate committee. This is not because I do not consider that the subject is worthy of an inquiry but because - I put it quite frankly - 1 think that already every standing committee has a number of important references which will keep it busy for the next 9 or 12 months. If we start overload ing committees with references, we will bring about a breakdown of the committee system that we are setting up. 
The United States of America, which has a long-standing committee system, found 3 or 4 years ago that this happened. In fact in that country a joint commif.ee of Congress was appointed to investigate the Congress committee system because of this type of problem. It was a very interesting investigation. One point which emerged and which became one of its recommendations was the danger of overloading a committee with references at any one time, in which event committees were not able to do the job properly or members of committees were simply not able to handle the work. It was found also that if committees became overloaded with references^ - in this case it would be either senators or members of the House of Representatives - members were not able to perform their committee work properly; they were going from one committee to another and not hearing all the evidence but only part of it, as a result of which there was a breakdown of the system. 
It is mainly on these grounds that at the moment on principle I could not support the appointment of a joint committee because, as much as for any other reason, I feel that the Senate will stand or fall on the success of the committee system, without becoming involved in committees with the other place where members are not nearly so interested in or experienced with committees as we are here. But I feel also that 1 could not support the reference of the matter to a Senate committee because I do not believe that any standing committee today could handle a reference of this magnitude and do the job as it would have to be done. I believe that much research is being done now through the Department of Immigration and the Government sponsoring research in:o immigration, which is a matter into which, of necessity, much research has to be done. Therefore, despite many of the arguments that have been raised and although I do not disagree with the general argument presented by  Senator Mulvihill,  I am afraid that I must question very seriously the practicability of what is proposed. 

 Senator GEORGES (Queensland)! (3.48) - 1 should like to follow on from what  Senator Sim  just said and advise the Senate, and the honourable senator in particular, that it should be the importance of an inquiry which determines the appointment of a committee, rather than the ability of the Senate to carry out the work, although this is an aspect that one mast consider. 1 am of the same view as the honourable senator in that I would prefer a Senate committee to a joint committee. He mentioned that the House of Representatives is not so interested as we are in committee work and perhaps is not in the same position as we are to establish committees. So by adopting a motion such as this we could force the other place, as we term it from time to time, to join with us in an investigation of such importance. I do not intend to cover the same ground as the honourable senator covered. I am of migrant parents and I am closer to the problems of migrants - especially migrants who are of non-British origin - than most honourable senators would be, but I shall not go into that aspect of it. 
I suggest to the Senate, and particularly to  Senator Sim,  that we should look at the size of our Senate select committees and consider whether we should reduce their membership from 8 to perhaps 6 so that there would be more senators to go round. I do not doubt that a committee of 6 or even 5 senators could operate just as effectively because it would have the power and authority to carry out an investigation and would provide a forum to which people could come to present their ideas and make submissions. I think really that we should consider the importance of the investigation since we are now facing the necessity to alter our immigration programme. In altering our immigration programme we should be careful that we do not bring into operation any decision which has not been properly researched or thought through. 
Since Opposition senators from time to time have questioned the exercise of discretion by the Department of Immigration in the operation of its policy, and especially in relation to decisions which affect people who are prohibited immigrants, I should like to take this opportunity to allow the Senate, as a welcome change, to hear me congratulating the Department instead of snipping at it. 1 should like to thank the Department for a most humane exercise of discretion in a case last week involving a  Mr Pat  Anthony, a Fijian who has been in direct conflict with the Department and who is a prohibited immigrant.  His  father died in Fiji and he was in the difficult position of wanting to attend his father's funeral but knowing that if he left the country he would have difficulty in obtaining a re-entry visa. I would accept that in the circumstances of that case the Department would have been justified in saying to him: "You have defied the Department for quite some time. You are. of course, permitted to leave the country, but wc are nol prepared to grant you a reentry visa'. On my representation the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  and his officers exercised their discretion to allow  Mr Anthony  to leave the country for 5 days and lo return and rejoin his family. I think that should be on record. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. I refer to a question 1 asked on 1st December as to whether eastern State viewers were to have the benefit of seeing an angry  Mr Hawke  perform on the programme Today Tonight' shown in Perth. Can the Minister say whether the programme is to be shown in the eastern States? 
I will be brief, as  Senator Bishop  has covered a great deal of the area that I intended to cover. I find myself in a slightly difficult position because I should state that Captain James, who is known to me, is a relation of my wife. Therefore it might be argued that I have some personal interest in the matter. I am sure that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  will accept that that relationship has had no influence whatever upon my thinking. I was concerned about this report long before  I  was approached by the Fed*eration of Air Pilots.  I  had handed a copy of the report to  2  very experienced jet captains for their comments. They are people of integrity who have never been slow to condemn pilots who they have thought have made errors. Their comments on the report were revealing and I had intended to discuss them at length, but because of the lateness of the hour I will not do so. 
I wish to mention only two or three matters. The first matter is that the Minister knows that long before this accident occurred I was concerned at the method by which the Depatment of Civil Aviation investigates air accidents. I have been concerned because the Department through its officers could well be heavily involved in an air accident. Those officers could be litigants. 1 do not reflect upon their integrity. I believe that they are men of integrity, but they can be placed in a difficult position because their credibility can always be questioned. This is a most undesirable stare of affairs. 
I have had discussions about separating air accident investigations from the Department. I acknowledge freely that there are arguments against that proposal, and they have considerable validity. However, while acknowledging their validity I have come down in favour of separation because of the factors I have mentioned. I have 2 propositions to put to the Minister which may to some extent overcome those problems.  Senator Bishop  referred to the possibility of a round table conference. I put it to the Minister most seriously that he should attempt to overcome the problem of the ill feeling that has developed over the report. A round table conference between the Department of Civil Aviation, Trans-Australia Airlines, a representative of the Federation of Air Pilots and a representative of the air controllers, who themselves are not happy, could be arranged. A whole group of people is not happy about the situation. Perhaps out of such a conference something could develop and there could be more goodwill than exists at present. I believe that the suggestion is worth considering as a means of overcoming the problem that exists today and the allegation that there is no longer credibility in the Air Investigation Branch. 
For the benefit of all concerned that feeling must be overcome quickly. I am noi pressing for a new inquiry but I suggest to the Minister that this could be one means of overcoming the problem. 
A second point for consideration is that it may be well worth while widening the Air Investigation Branch for particular investigations, so that it included not only departmental officers but also representatives of the Federation of Air Pilots and other professional bodies who would be full members and therefore have full responsibility for any decisions made. They must have full responsibility. If they wished to submit a dissenting or minority report they would need to be prepared to stand by that report. That suggestion may be worth considering. I have put it very briefly in view of the hour. I could develop it further. Perhaps the Minister will agree to discuss it further with me. It could be a means of overcoming the existing problem. I think all honourable senators would recognise that it exists. 
I wish now to deal with the question of whether at some stage Captain James could have aborted his take-off with safety. With great respect to the authors of the report, I suggest that it is based on a series of assumptions which are unsubstantiated. It is heavily based upon a tape recording of the words 'How far ahead is he?'. It is believed that Captain James uttered those words and he does not deny that he could have uttered them. He has no recollection of saying them but does not deny that he could have said them at a point when he had reached a speed of about. 100 knots and was at a stage of a complex night take-off procedure, working from instruments to visual. But Captain James admits that at some stage he was - I think I should quote his evidence because I do not think it has been dealt with adequately in the report - 
Subconsciously aware of something abnormal somewhere ahead. It was not in my subconscious but I thought I saw a movement momentarily ahead but at no time did I think it was on the runway. 
In other words, he looked up from his instruments and, as he explained, there was the momentary flash of a light. 
If we look at the Sydney airport we see  a  number of lights. There are dredges near the edge of the runway. He saw this flash of a light. In spite of a feeling he had that there was something wrong he was cleared a few seconds later, as he suggests in his evidence, when the control tower cleared a DC9 to land. I think it is reasonable on the part of a captain, when an aircraft is cleared for take off and another one is cleared to land, whatever may have flashed across his mind for a moment, to assume that the runway is in fact clear. I believe that this matter has been too heavily weighted and it is based upon the word he'. I. suppose many of us use the word he' or the word 'it' pretty loosely. There is no evidence apart from that to suggest that Captain James at that stage - at 100 knots - was aware that in fact there was a DC8 aircraft on the runway. All he saw was a momentary flash of light. 
Another point on this aspect is in relation to the assumption that at that stage he could have aborted his take off with safety. I suggest that this assumption cannot be substantiated, lt is based upon an immediate reaction of 0.37 of a second to apply the brakes, lt excludes the fact that the Boeing certification allows 3 seconds to identify an object and decide what action will be taken, and that 3 seconds later that aircraft at a stage of rapid acceleration would have covered so much more of the runway and, of course, would have Iwi travelling a good deal faster. I believe it is correct to say that no te-is nave been carried out in Australia on various types of wet runways in relation to the distance it takes for an aircraft to pull up. The Department of Works sets an arbitrary figure of 1.9 per cent as the distance on a dry runway. This is challenged by many experienced jet captains who claim that it takes 3 times that length of runway. That may not be right. No-one knows what is right. My understanding is that up to the time of the accident no tests had been carried out in Australia. No captain would be certain at this stage on a wet runway - the runway was wet and acknowledged to be wet - whether, taking into consideration the difficulty which the report acknowledges of recognising distance, even if the other aircraft had been seen, the first aircraft could have been pulled up in a matter of split seconds. I believe that the report - again I am dealing very briefly with this - in its suggestion that it could have been done is based on a series of assumptions which cannot be substantiated. 
I believe the most damning statement against Captain James, which has been dealt with by  Senator Bishop,  is that at rotation he adopted the normal procedures instead of adopting a steeper initial climb angle. Page 35 of the report states: 
In the event, he decided that he could overfly or would attempt to overfly the obstructing aircraft using normal take off techniques. Even at this stage the aircraft had ample capacity to climb over the obstructing aircraft and Captain James's adherence to normal techniques in the face of the very real hazard in front of him was erroneous. 
I turn to the flight training manual for Boeing 727 aircraft which is issued by Trans-Australia Airlines. Captain James had been trained to follow these instructions and, as a training captain, had trained others to do so. The steeper angle of descent or climb is called over-rotation. The flight training manual states: 
Over-rotation on take-off adversely affects take off performance. The nose high attitude will cause an increase in drag, delaying acceleration to lift off speed and may be high enough to actuate the stall warning device or cause buffet and further decrease performance. Over-rotation generally goes together with early rotation and is undesirable. Either over-rotation or  a  late but fast rotation can result in the tail skid contacting the runway. 
These are the operating procedures laid down. I am advised by senior jet captains that if indeed Captain James had adopted the technique which is suggested in the report he more than likely would have killed 240 people because the aircraft would not have climbed at a steeper angle; indeed it would have dragged. For further proof of this I turn to a book which is written by D. P. Davies who is a British Air Registration Board test pilot. It is called 'Mishandled Rotations' and is a book dealing with the handling of big jets. This is a man, I presume, of great experience. He states: 
Varying  Vr  cannot possibly effect an Improvement in take off distances without reducing the overall safety of the manoeuvre. 
He states also: 
We need not go into the exact consequence of all the incorrect techniques in detail but it is worth mentioning that early and high rotations produce large increases in drag which greatly extend the take off distance. 
Here we have the TAA flight training manual - an authoritative book, as I understand it - warning against over-rotation. Yet if I understand the report, it is for not doing this that Captain James is criticised. May I say that the flight training manual has been approved of by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
I would like to deal with a great number of other matters in this report but because of the extreme lateness of the hour I will not do so. I believe that the report has not criticised the captain of the Canadian Pacific aircraft sufficiently. I believe that his performance was, to say the least, poor airmanship. I think it is unbelievable that a captain of experience would backtrack on a runway without checking, knowing that aircraft have been cleared to land and aircraft are preparing to take off. Although Captain James is criticised for not seeing the lights of this aircraft, there are grave doubts as to whether his lights were on. However, the report seems to accept the fact that they were. The crew of the DC8 which was on short final approach claimed in evidence that when they switched their landing lights on at 300 feet they suddenly saw the landing lights of the CPA aircraft switched on. They then took action to abort their landing at the same time as the control tower heard from the aircraft and ordered them to abort their landing. This is not referred to. 
The final point I wish to make - I do not understand why the report ignored this - is that the captain of the CPA aircraft was wandering on the main duty runway for some 40-odd seconds when he admits he saw the lights of an aircraft on the runway and took no action to vacate the runway until the last 6 seconds, at which stage he tried to get off the runway. So this seems to be another example of incompetence, to say the least, because if he knew another aircraft was cleared - in fact the aircraft was on the wrong frequency - and he saw the lights of an aircraft approaching, why did he not take avoiding action? To my mind he shares a very heavy responsibility. It is not my job to hit anybody over the head with a big stick. Everybody makes errors of judgment. I am not going to be hard on the men in the control tower. Errors of judgment are made. None of us is infallible. 
However, I believe that this report is not a fair report. Therefore it is unacceptable to me. 
In years gone by  Senator O'Byrne  and I have spoken on the matter of the Tariff Board. There was one time when he and I were in complete agreement, and the wheel seems to have turned full circle. At one period we seemed to have parted. He began to express views which seemed to me to reflect a change in the policy of the Australian Labor Party and a return to high protectionism. Tonight I am pleased to see that he seems to have expressed views which would be very much in line with the views which I and some other honourable senators on this side of the Senate have expressed constantly for many years. I agree with a great deal of what  Senator O'Byrne  has said tonight. It is not my intention to speak at any great length. In days gone by I was a very strong critic of the tariff policy that was being followed. I think that on this side ex-Senator Bull and 1 were voices crying in the wilderness in our criticism of the policy. We have witnessed a change in policy which is more in line with the views which we and many others have constantly expressed. 
I agree with the closing comments made by  Senator O'Byrne  that tariff policy is one of the important factors in stabilising and widening the economy. 1 also agree with his comment that the administration of tariff policy is a major factor in determining the cost structure in Australia. I think that be very rightly laid considerable stress upon the inflationary effect which could follow certain tariff policies. I agree entirely with his comments as I understood them on this particular aspect. I and others have constantly said that one of the major factors in determining the cost structure in Australia has been the high tariff policy which was followed for many years and which meant a diversion of our scarce capital resources to high cost industry. 
I supported and defended the  Chairman  of the Board,  Mr Rattigan  and, indeed,  Sir Leslie  Melville the past  chairman  when they were advocating changes, in the tariff policy. I particularly praise the courage of  Mr Rattigan,  who stood up against great pressures. He stood by what he believed to be the right course. I believe that eventually he won out because over successive years from 1966-67 the Tariff Board reports have laid down the criteria which the Board would follow. The Board began to look at those areas of high cost industry which had been granted high tariff protection many years ago. Much of this protection had been granted during the 1930s because of the economic conditions which existed in those days and there was no inquiry by the Tariff Board. There has been no inquiry since to determine whether the high level of protection which has been granted to these industries is justified under conditions which exist today. A campaign of denigration has been carried out by vested interests in Australia against the Tariff Board. This campaign has continued' up to recent times. I think that only last year merchants were being bombarded by certain organisations representing vested interests which opposed the Tariff Board. They were making all sorts- of wild allegations against the Board. 1 for one was delighted when both the Government and the Board stood firm against these pressures. 

 Senator O'Byrne mentioned first of all the dissenting report by  Mr Cossar  in relation to the employment of temporary staff. Of course this was a factor which enraged certain sections of industry, j. atn bound to say that I support the Tariff Board in this situation. If the Board can take advantage of outside expert staff to assist it more quickly to make determinations then that situation should be supported. 1 think it is fair to say that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made a statement in support of the Tariff Board. He made certain qualifications which were justified but he generally supported the Board in the employment of temporary staff. I think that there is great merit in .employing specialists from universities and elsewhere if they assist the Board more quickly and more expertly to make recommendations. I trust that this policy is  continuing wherever it is needed. J have always questioned whether the Tad Board has sufficient staff so that it can more quickly carry out its investigations. 
As I think  Senator O'Byrne  mentioned, there is often a very long delay between the time when a reference is given to the Board and the time when it makes its report. I believe that we should always ensure that this time lag is cut down as far as possible so that the reports and recommendations follow far more quickly from a reference than they have in the past. The Board should be given adequate resources to carry put its tasks. I ani not in a position to say whether today the Board has adequate resources. I believe that its resources have certainly been improved. I also note that last year an additional member was appointed to the Tariff Board to facilitate its work. But I believe that long delays between references . and reports are not in the best interests of industry or of the economy. Certainly the Board must be given adequate resources so that it can carry out its own policy of reviewing tariffs and high cost areas. Its review should then follow down in the medium areas and, eventually, into the areas of low tariff protection to ensure that protection which has been granted in years gone past is justified under conditions which exist today. I also agree with the Board which is giving industries warnings that they have to put their house in order, that there has to be rationalisation. 
Over the past twelve or eighteen months many of the Board's reports have advised industry that protection will be maintained for a limited period and that when that period ends the Board will again review the position to ensure that the rationalisation which is believed necessary is being carried out before granting the industry protection for the future. It is all very well to talk of rationalisation and changes in the structure of our primary industries.  Senator O'Byrne  referred to pricing ourselves out of world markets. If we are going to compete on world markets and have a reasonable cost structure in Australia then an area which must be under continual examination is the protection granted to Australian industry. If we are going to have the scant resources - and they are in Australia - of capital diverted to the areas where they can make the greatest contribution to our national growth then we have to see that as far as possible they are diverted to those areas which make this contribution. These are the arrangements which I and others have used over the years. It is a matter of some delight and satisfaction to know that after a long struggle, and sometimes a very lonely struggle, many of these policies are now being put into effect. 
As I think  Senator O'Byrne  mentioned, Into any great length I merely express my continued support for the Tariff Board. I particularly pay tribute to the  chairman, Mr Rattigan,  who, against great odds, fought for what he believed to be right. I think that eventually he has achieved his objectives. He fought against a lot of very powerful opposition. I believe we must continually keep an eye on tariff policy. In the past it seems to have become the custom in this place for Tariff Board reports and customs Bills to be brought on in the last days or dying days of a session when they could not be fully debated. I can remember making protests about this. 
 I thank  Senator Webster  for his support. I want to make a very brief reference to a reply I. received a few days ago in response to a question I asked in December. I notice a smile on  Senator Cotton's  face and I think he knows what I am going to say. I asked a question about the interpretation of the expression 'suitably equivalent'. I find some difficulty in interpreting the reply I received. 
 I am delighted to hear that I am not as dull as I thought and that the Minister for Civil Aviation had the same problem. I believe that the administration of tariff policy is almost as important as tariff policy itself. I agree that there must be some flexibility in the interpretation of the phrase 'suitably equivalent' and I suppose there must be some arbitrariness in making decisions. I confine myself to saying that tonight but at some later date perhaps, when I have studied the matter more carefully, I will have more to say about it. According to this reply I find that the criterion in the final analysis is this: 
There is no availability of a local product that is being or could be used- for a purpose similar to that for which the imported goods are required- 
I think you would require a lawyer to define what is meant by that. The reply goes on to state:  and the granting of a tariff concession would not be detrimental to the interests of Australian manufacturers. . . . 
I merely raise the question - one to which I will get an answer some time - as to which criterion is used if it will be detrimental to the interests of an Australian manufacturer who is a high cost and inefficient manufacturer. Is that manufacturer protected by the use of this phrase suitably equivalent' or is some study made of the economics of the particular industry? I went on to ask whether price is a factor taken Into consideration when determining eligibility of goods for by-law admission. The reply I received states: 
The  answer is ' Yes' in determining whether locally made goods are reasonably available. 
Quite frankly I have some difficulty in interpreting what that means. 
Some time ago I had a case involving a person in Western Australia who wanted to import second hand fire engines from the United Kingdom for between $6,000 and $7,000 for sale to farmers and local authorities. Under the by-law regulations he was not allowed to import these because it was said that suitably equivalent products were available in Australia. I was told - and I have to accept this - that the price of the suitably equivalent product was in the vicinity of $25,000. A person may be able, to afford $6,000 or $7,000 but cannot afford the suitably equivalent item costing $25,000. It seems to me that that price was not a major factor in determining what was suitably equivalent. 
 No. I can only repeat what 1 was told but it is my understanding that the fire engines had to be specially manufactured. They were not stock types and they had to be manufactured to specifications. The price was $25,000. The second hand fire engines could have been bought for a specific purpose by farmers and local authorites. They could not afford the higher price but they could afford to purchase the imported ones, in those days, for between $6,000 and $7,000. That prompted my question about the definition of the phrase 'suitably equivalent' and I am still somewhat in the dark. 
I do not intend to carry on with this tonight but I point out that there have been some quite learned papers by certain academics on the question of by-law admissions. I think that by-law admissions have been one aspect of tariff policy which in the past has been administered against the recommendations of the Tariff Board. I serve notice that at some suitable time I may well have more comments to make on this particular matter. I conclude with those comments. I support the Bill. 
To continue the interest in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the Government satisfied that the public interest would be served by a takeover of Ansett by TNT? If it is not so satisfied, what action can the Government take to protect the public interest? 
I do not wish to cover the ground which has been covered at some length by 
Other  honourable senators. 1 indicate my support for the motion moved by  Senator Gair,  lt has support from all sides of the chamber except one. I think I indicated to  Senator Turnbull  - 1 am sorry that he is not here - my view of his remarks when he started speaking by saying: 'What rubbish'. I said that quite early in his comments. After listening to  him  I had no reason to change that opinion. I believe that not only is there merit in the Senate Standing Committee on Primary, Secondary Industry and Trade examining this matter but also I believe that there is a responsibility on Parliament to be informed on this matter. lt is a matter of great public interest. Where matters are of great public interest they are the real concern of Parliament. I indicate quite clearly that I shall oppose with every means in my power the takeover by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd unless I am convinced that the public interest is best served by such a takeover. 
I- indicate - although my mind may or may not be open - that 1 am far from convinced at this moment that the public interest would be best served. That is why I welcome this motion. I believe that this matter should be thoroughly investigated by Parliament and not by the Executive only. Parliament should make up its mind and it should make the final decision. It is the responsibility of Parliament. Parliament cannot and should not avoid its responsibility in matters such as this. That is why I am speaking and putting the view which I believe should be put. I ask honourable senators to understand that the final responsibility is upon us as members of this Senate and of Parliament. I shall make only one or two other very brief comments. I have been impressed, as others have been, by the spontaneous reaction of Ansett employees in supporting their company. I do not think it is a matter which we should treat lightly. The views of 13,000 people - or whatever the number is - who are employed by a company must be of some concern to us. The employees have indicated their view quite clearly in a way which I should say must bring a flush of pride to  Sir Reginald  Ansett's heart. They are supporting him at this moment. ! '' 
The other point I mention is 'iri relation to Western Australia. Whatever . one may say about Ansett or anybody else, since ATI took over MacRobertson Miller Airlines. Services . in Western Australia there has been a most dramatic improvement in the services to the north-west; and Kimberley regions of Western Australia. As a Western Australian I do not think that I should let this service pass - unnoticed. Today this area is served by a- .complete jet fleet of the most modern jet aircraft. The services are equal to those anywhere else in Australia, and, probably, the. world. I do not think there is any area so .sparsely populated which today has the service which is provided to the north-west of Western Australia. I make the point, purely as a Western Australian, that I am vitally interested, as are my colleagues in Western Australia, to see that these services are maintained and, if necessary, improved. 
It has been the policy of ATI to improve services. A sixth jet aircraft is on order but whether delivery will be taken of it now I do not know because of a downturn in traffic. Nevertheless it is. ready to go into service to provide the needs of the north. With these few points I support this motion. This will be a major inquiry. I think a matter such as this is the correct type of reference to give to a standing committee. The Committee has a great responsibility to report to Parliament. Parliament has a great responsibility to make up its mind as to where the public interest lies. 
I note that apparently there is some agreement on both sides of the chamber as to the desirability of having in Australia a viable aircraft industry. It is the stated policy of the Government that we should maintain a small but viable and effective aircraft industry in Australia, but it seems to me that the Opposition should try to define what it means by 'viable'. This is important, if I understood  Senator Poyser  correctly, he wants an industry which is producing some type of aircraft at al! times, whether or not here is a demand for it. I understand that this is what he means by viable. I question the economic viability of an industry which is producing just for the sake of producing. There is a need for an aircraft industry in Australia but not just for the sake of having it. This is what we mean by viable and effective. The industry has to be economically effective within reason. 
When one criticises the lack of continuity in orders, when one criticises the troughs and peaks in the aircraft industry in Australia, one should bc prepared to agree also that this is not common to Australia. Throughout the world today there are grave economic and financial problems in the aircraft industry. They have affected the great aircraft manufacturers in the United States of America - organisations such as Douglas, Lockheed and Boeing. Indeed, they have affected the Rolls Royce organisation in the United Kingdom. These problems are not found only in Australia. It is very easy to talk loosely about continuity but other countries are having continuity problems also. When we talk about continuity, what do we mean? I would like to hear what Opposition senators mean. It is all very well to produce an aircraft but there has to be a need for it. 
The importation of aircraft is an interesting point and perhaps we should look at it. If we are going to manufacture every aircraft that we want in Australia- 
I am not saying that that is your proposition. But if we are to manufacture every aircraft in Australia we will need the through put to make the industry an economic proposition. I wonder what aircraft we are buying, except those in the smaller range, for which there would be sufficient through put to justify production in Australia. Certainly there has been such justification for the Mirage, the Macchi, the Canberra and other aircraft which we have built here. There is a plan to build here light observation helicopters, of which the Royal Australian Air Force requires 75, I think, but in order to have a suitable and acceptable programme the industry has called tenders for the manufacture of 116 civil aircraft. I notice that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  presented some interesting figures when speaking to a similar motion in the other place on 1st March. He quoted figures which showed that the cost of producing these helicopters in Australia would be 41 per cent higher than the cost at which we could import them. A serious cost factor is involved but in trying to maintain a viable industry the Government is prepared, quite rightly, to pay a cost 41 per cent higher than the cost involved in importing the aircraft from overseas. This is important, particularly when we are talking about manufacturing aircraft other than military aircraft. 
We have heard a great deal about the aircraft known as Project N.  Senator Poyser  spoke about it at some length and I think that some of his statements are open to challenge. It is all very well to say that an aircraft flies well. It is all very well to say, as did  Senator Bishop,  that there is evidence from people who have seen the test flights of this aircraft to indicate that this is the aircraft we want. I suggest that there are other criteria besides the fact that it flies well. One criterion is whether there is a demand for it. It is all very well to say that the defence forces should have it. But do they want it? Is it the type of aircraft required by the Army or by the Air Force? At the moment I understand that an evaluation is being made to determine whether it is the type of aircraft for which there is a slot in our armed forces. Surely it would be a pretty uneconomic proposition to produce an aircraft which we do not want. It may well be that there is an overseas demand for Project N. If so, we have no problem if we can sell it in sufficient numbers overseas. But we have to know the cost of manufacturing this aircraft because surely there will be competition on the world market. The French, the Indonesians or anybody else will not buy them simply because we make them if there are other aircraft of a similar type available at a cheaper cost. All these factors have to be considered. We can talk very loosely about being able to sell these aircraft. 
 I think that is the worst industry that the honourable senator could refer to. Goodness me, we had some speeches on the tariff and our car industry some years ago. I would not say too much about that subject, if I were the honourable senator. I hope we do not get to the stage where our aircraft industry has to close down, as some sectors of the car industry are closing down simply because they cannot sell the cars that are produced. These are factors which any responsible government has to take into account. 

 Senator Poyser said that we have the ability right now to establish a viable industry based on Project N. I suggest that this is not a terribly responsible statement to make. We all hope that we will have an industry but any responsible government, before spending large sums of the taxpayers money, must be certain that this aircraft is, firstly, required in Australia, and secondly, that there is an overseas market for it. Nothing could be more tragic for the aircraft industry than to start producing this aircraft and then find, after tooling up, that we do not have the orders to maintain the production. It is all very well to say that the Government should take risks but risks such as this, as apparently advocated by  Senator Poyser,  in the long term, or in the short term, would cause tremendous damage to the aircraft industry. It would no longer be the viable and effective industry that we all want to see. 

 Senator Poyser went on to say that there is some dispute in the defence Services as to who will fly the aircraft and that therefore a decision about it has been delayed. In order to put the record straight I think I should quote from the speech made by the Minister for Defence on 1st March when he answered the allegation made in some sections of the Press about what he termed the so-called fight going on between the RAAF and the Army about who is to fly this aircraft. The Minister categorically denied that this was happening. He said: 
I can assure the House that there is no fight of any sort because no decision has been made as to whether the aircraft will go into production. 
He went on to explain the situation in greater detail. I suggest it is not accurate, in view of the Minister's statement, to say that production is being delayed because of some inter-service rivalry. A minor point made by  Senator Poyser  should be corrected. He said that the aircraft he saw in flight had been flown for some 300 hours. In that same speech the Minister for Defence said: 
One first flew last winter and, by the beginning of February, had done about 70 hours flying. The second prototype had done about 30 hours flying. 
I am corrected by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman);  the aircraft has now done 202 hours. I was quoting the figures given in the speech made by the Minister for Defence. The later figure of 202 hours is much closer to 300 hours so I accept that point. Nevertheless, the aircraft has not yet been certified by the Department of Civil Aviation. The Minister for Defence has assured the Parliament that the aircraft is being evaluated and I think, from memory, that the evaluation will be complete at the end of the month. Then the defence forces will be in the position of being able to say whether this aircraft is suitable for their needs. It seems to me to be fairly irresponsible to urge that it be purchased before a proper valuation is made. One of the problems which we face and which I have already mentioned briefly is that at the moment we are in a trough. We have just completed the Mirage programme and the Macchi programme is nearly completed. With the completion of those programmes, there are no further requirements by the armed forces for a military aircraft. Unless we rush into the Project N there are no aircraft construction programmes which we can undertake. I think this explains in simple terms that the Government is not idle. Indeed, it has been studying this matter over a number of years and it has had some success. 
It is all very well to deride offset orders. They are not inconsiderable. The prospects are that we will be able to obtain more and more offset orders. Already in recent times we have reached agreement on new offset orders or contracts worth almost $3m. These are against government purchases of aircraft from the Boeing Company. These contracts involve the manufacture in Australia of rudders, elevators and inspar ribs for Boeing 727 aircraft. We also have contracts which were previously signed with these companies and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd not only for components but also for windows, flap gearboxes for the Boeing 747 aircraft, and miscellaneous machined parts for both the 707 and 747 aircraft. Australia is now the sole source of supply for rudders, elevators and inspar ribs for Boeing 727 aircraft. As the result of a mission which went overseas in November-December 1971 to seek orders from the French aeronautical industry a contract valued at $554,000 has been received for engine components and turbine blades. Negotiations for further orders from the French aircraft industry are being actively pursued. 
We are also vitally interested in what are known as reciprocal purchasing arrangements. The Government has made it known to overseas aerospace industries receiving orders for Australian military and civil requirements that reciprocal purchasing opportunities are expected. Special machinery has been set up by the Government to facilitate participation in these opportunities. An interdepartmental committee representing the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Defence, the Department of Supply and a committee of industry experts is involved. To date orders worth some $7m have been obtained. I could go on dealing with other actions taken by the Government to obtain not only offset orders but also reciprocal purchasing arrangements and other arrangements which will provide more work for our aircraft industry. I think that in a responsible way the Government is doing everything it can to ensure that in Australia we have a viable, small but effective aircraft industry. 
Sitting suspended from 5.49 to 8.00 p.m.  (Quorum formed.) 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of growing dissatisfaction in Western Australia with the administration of the rural reconstruction scheme? Will the Minister consult with his colleague the Minister for Primary Industry to ensure that the scheme is being administered in accordance with the intention of the Commonwealth Government and, also, is being efficiently administered? Will the Minister take steps to ensure that the rural reconstruction board maintains close liaison with the Development Bank of Australia and the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme in Western Australia? 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the proposals of the Australian Wool Commission for a lot building plan. Is it known what increase in handling costs will be involved in the plan? If there is to be an increase in costs, can the wool grower be guaranteed a commensurate increase in the return on his wool? 
I present the report of Estimates Committee C together with the minutes of proceedings. I also table a Hansard report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that Federal estate duty is sometimes assessed before State probate duty is finalised? Is he also aware that some State laws prevent the disposition of any part of the estate until State probate duty has first been secured? Is he further aware that the Commonwealth Taxation Office imposes a penalty rate of interest of 10 per cent from the date on which Federal estate duty is payable? Will the Minister take up this matter with his colleague, the Federal Treasurer, and request that this unfair imposition be discontinued? 
I will be brief because I believe that a brief speech is the most effective speech. 
Yes, 10 minutes. 1 believe that a lot of people can say what they have to say in 10 minutes. After 10 minutes they are only repeating themselves. One reason why people leave this chamber is because of long, boring speeches which are full of repetition. All honourable senators, including myself, should discipline themselves to say what has to be said in 10 minutes or half an hour. The sooner they do that, the better the speeches in this place will be and the far more effective they will be. 
1 will be less than 7 minutes. I assure  Senator Wheeldon  of that. 1 support the motion that the debate on matters of urgency should not exceed 2 hours, i have listened to many such debates and I have wondered how many had a sense of urgency about them. But we are all politicians and we engage in political stunts from time to time. That is fair enough. As  Senator Turnbull  said, after the first 2 or 3 speakers in an urgency debate all that the remaining speakers do is fill in time for the remainder of the 3 hours. They repeat what somebody else has said. I assure  Senator Turnbull  that any time he wants to speak in my place on a matter of urgency he may do so with the greatest of pleasure. Like many honourable senators on both sides, 1 speak on matters of urgency only because the Whips on both sides want speakers. We speak only to take up time. I assure  Senator Devitt,  who is trying to interject, that I have listened to him and many others and all they have said was that somebody else had said, and said much better. 
We should discipline ourselves in this place. Two hours is enough to debate a matter of urgency. We would be saying no more in 3 hours, we would be saying less in 4 hours and we would be saying even less in 5 hours. The sooner we realise this and the sooner we get on with the business of the Senate, the better. We might be able to debate more matters of urgency than we do now, but the sooner we debate the important matters - Senate committee reports and matters of concern to the Senate and the public - the better, because while 1 have been a senator, very few matters of urgency have had any sense of urgency about them or have been so important that any member of the public would take an interest in them. 
 I suppose that any Government supporter who stands up and indicates an attitude contrary to that of the Government is likely to be accused by the mass media of being a rebel or anti-Government or anti some individual. I want to say that I am not a rebel - I do not think. I am not anti-anybody. I rise to speak because, like my friend  Senator Withers,  I find myself in some trouble with my conscience. 
My conscience - and if  Senator Devitt  does not know what that is I will explain it to him later. May I assure my good friend,  Senator Carrick,  that I have no sense of pique because I have no objection to members of Parliament setting for the rest of the community an example which, I may say, has not been followed. In fact, I think that there has been greater demand and pressure for salary and wage increases since we were supposed to have set an example - whatever happened to make us set that example - than at any other time. I think that probably our example has failed. Nevertheless, I have no quarrel with that. I believe that Parliament itself has a responsibility to set some example. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  referred to the matter of justice. I suppose everybody can make a decision as to what is justice. We all have our views on what is justice, whether it be in relation to wages, salaries or something else. I might think that as a matter of justice I should be getting 3 times what I am getting now. Another person might think that as a matter of justice I should be getting half of what I am getting now, as that is all I am worth, and that person may be right. So I do not think that this reference to a matter of justice is an argument that convinces me. I had hoped that the Attorney-General would have satisfied me and my conscience. Unfortunately, he has not done so. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made a plea for restraint. I support that plea because I believed that it was justified. I support the Government in the action it took in the national wage case. I support the Government in opposing the 9 per cent flow-on from a decision which was given in Victoria. I believe that the Government has been consistent but I fail to find any consistency in this instance. If the Government is to be consistent, it must be consistent right across the board. If the Government, through its legislation, grants substantial salary increases to certain sections of the community, then I fail to see, in all conscience, how the Government can object to or restrict wage or salary pressures elsewhere. As the Attorney-General said, there may be very good reasons for increasing the salaries of Conciliation Commissioners, but each of us could find very good reasons for increasing the wages and salaries of any other section of the community. Therefore, regrettably I find myself unable to support this clause. 
May I also say in order to put it on record that the Liberal Party in my own State of Western Australia has, on numerous occasions in recent times, expressed itself very strongly on this issue of awarding substantial increases in Public Service salaries? As  Senator Withers,  I think, commented, it seems to me that the Government, through various means in the Public Service, has been the pacemaker in this spate of salary increases. Let us start here and exercise some restraint. I had a lot of sympathy with the action which was taken during the last session concerning salary increases for holders of statutory offices. On that occasion I voted with the Government, against my better judgment, but on this occasion I feel that I cannot go along with the Government. 
I want to make one further comment. The Attorney-General referred to the salaries paid to conciliation commissioners in the various States. If I may comment on the situation in Western Australia, the State Conciliation Commissioners are in fact the judges of the Commission. They are not in the normal sense conciliation commissioners and until the State Act was amended some of them were in fact judges of the court. I think their position is somewhat different from that of federal conciliation commissioners. The same situation may apply in other States; I do not know. I regret having to take this step but everyone of us at times has to be responsible to our own conscience in these matters. I feel that I would be acting against my conscience if I did not oppose this clause. 
I seek leave to make a statement concerning the progress made by the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in considering the Japan reference transmitted to it by the Senate. 
Perhaps the best part of  Senator Keeffe's  speech was its shortness. 
Yes, I am. I think that one has to be charitable at times. Some people might not deserve charity but we should be prepared to be tolerant and give them charity. This Papua New Guinea Bill is a simple Bill. It heralds a further important development towards independence. But the fact that it is a simple Bill that does not mean that perhaps we should not take the opportunity to say a few words about the development of Papua New Guinea. I do not propose to go into the matter in any depth. Many honourable senators know that in the past I have expressed my concern for the future of the Territory. But I do not believe that this should be a matter of political dispute in Australia. We should concentrate not on the dangers which may eventually arise but on those things which provide encouragement. While I have expressed and still express some doubts whether Papua New Guinea is ready for independence, nevertheless we must face the fact that events make it inevitable. 
I have always believed that Australia should never be behind but always one move ahead of, if possible, the demands from, the people of Papua New Guinea. Also we should be very conscious to avoid the terrible lessons of Africa where independence has not brought happiness. As we all know from the events of recent times, it has brought tragedy to many countries in Africa which had far more opportunities to develop a civil service and to learn lessons than perhaps Papua New Guinea has had. I believe that the present Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  deserves a great deal of credit for what he has done since taking office. I believe that he has been able to capture the mood of the people of the Territory. The Minister has done everything possible to gain the confidence of the leaders and, by gaining their confidence, to become a confidant of them. In paying what I believe is a well deserved tribute to the Minister I do not wish it to be thought that I am denigrating the efforts of past ministers. I believe that they have always acted in the best interests of the people of the Territory as they saw them. I believe that each one of them deserves credit for what he has done. 
It is easy and cheap to be critical but it is different when one has the responsibility - as these ministers have had - to try to guide the people in the Territory towards independence. In saying this I think it useless to deny that there are great divisions within the Territory. Some of them are potentially grave. I have said before, and I think it should be repeated, that today there is no great sense of national unity in Papua New Guinea. This is only to be expected. They are a diverse people in many ways. They have some 700 different languages. No common language binds them. There are differences between the wishes of the people in the various parts of New Guinea. In the highlands the people are conservative and naturally fear - whether they are right or not I do not think matters - that because of their backwardness, which is not the fault of anybody as the country has been almost impossible to open up until recent times, they will be controlled by the better educated and more sophisticated people in the lowlands. This fear has to be overcome. 
I think that the Chief Minister has been around and talked to the people in the highlands. They are intelligent people and they are very numerous. They represent a substantial section of the people in the Territory. Some 750,000 people live in the highlands. It is certainly a challenge to the Government of Papua New Guinea to ensure that these people do not fear that they ave going to be left out. But their fear is real. One has only to go there and talk to them to become aware of this fear. This is no longer a real challenge to Australia; it is a challenge to the government of New Guinea. There are, of course, ancient enmities between the various areas of New Guinea - enmities which we all know break out from time to time - but these are problems which have to be faced. It is useless for us to ignore these problems. We must recognise that they exist. However, I believe that with wise and moderate attitudes which will gain the trust and confidence of the people, particularly of the highlands, and to a great degree the people of the islands, we can have at least a degree of confidence that the future of Papua New Guinea will be secure. Another problem is the uneven economic development of the Territory. I noted the other day a report which  Mr Hayden  of the Australian Labor Party had prepared on his visit to Papua New Guinea. 
I have not seen the report; I have only read the Press reports. 1 do not mention the report in order to criticise what  Mr Hayden  has said because I believe it is to the good that people are visiting Papua New Guinea, expressing opinions and putting forward their thoughts on Papua New Guinea. Surely what we need today are thoughts. I see no problem if some of those thoughts contradict the attitudes of the people in opposition or views expressed in the past from this side of the chamber. I note also that there has been a report from the economics intelligence unit which was set up by the Australian Government and commissioned to report on the economic development of New Guinea. That body raised a number of important issues and mentioned particularly the problem of uneven economic development. This is a great problem. 
Today we are witnessing to a great extent that there is a breakdown of village life because the young people are leaving the villages for the major towns where they think the streets are paved with gold. They come into the towns without training or skills. It is recognised in the towns of New Guinea that a problem of law and order is developing because of this movement. This situation must be faced up to early - otherwise it will be too late. There is a need to develop small industries away from the major centres. In saying this I do not underestimate the great problems that will be involved. This is something that cannot be achieved overnight. It will take a long time. We have these problems which are worrying many friends of New Guinea and which certainly are worrying many officers of the Administration. 
I should like to say a few words about the expatriate officers. Despite some comments that have been made here and elsewhere, these men have rendered magnificent service in Papua New Guinea. As young men they went out as patrol officers, health officers and agriculturists into the various parts of the Territory. They lived lonely and at times rather dangerous lives. They are the men to whom much credit will be due when Papua New Guinea finally gains its independence. If the changeover to independence is smooth and the going remains smooth it will be because of the influence of these people who will deserve credit from the Australian people. Nevertheless there are problems for these exptriate officers and it is useless to deny that they are uneasy as to their future. We will have to face up to this problem. Many of the older ones probably will be happy to retire, and there is no doubt that many who are in the 30 to 40 years age group will be needed in the Territory because of their experience and knowledge. There is nobody to take their place. But they will have to be assured at least of security. Unless they have that assurance they will leave the Territory, and if they leave it will be disastrous to development in the Territory. In my view they must be offered some compensation and some form of contract with acceptable terms which will guarantee them, so far as it can be guaranteed, some future in the service of the Territory. Without this guarantee they will leave, and if they leave they cannot be replaced. This is a matter that must be faced up to. 
I know that something is being done about this and that it has 'been in the minds of various Ministers and of the Department. Nevertheless my information - which I believe is accurate as it comes from the Territory - is that there is still great concern among these officers. I believe that we must do whatever we can to ensure that they are encouraged to stay and that they are provided with adequate compensation and acceptable contracts so that they will remain in the Territory. 
 Yes. I think it is fair to say also that the morale of some of these people is becoming low because they are frightened of the future. We should recognise this and see what we can do to ensure that they remain in the Territory to provide the expertise which will be so sorely needed to develop the Territory when it obtains independence. 
The final point I mention is that we are encouraging and assisting in the development of the parliamentary system of government. In this respect I think we should sound a note of warning. The lesson from other countries has shown that it is an almost impossible task to implant overnight a system of government which suits a country. Our system took 1,000 years to develop throughout British communities and it had its many problems as it devel oped. We cannot expect this system to work perfectly in the Territory immediately. We must be tolerant in this regard. 
No, I do not think we have, but continually we are trying to work towards it. I think perfection is something that humans will never achieve. Nevertheless I think we should recognise that the system of government that we now have may not be the- system of government that eventually will suit the needs of the Territory. I hope the Territory will be given the assistance and encouragement that are needed to develop a system that will suit its environment and the conditions of that country. If we have not learnt from Africa and other countries that a system of government will not work immediately, the lesson will never be learnt. Therefore, we should not be critical if the people of the Territory develop a system which perhaps we may not like but which suits their purposes and which will act in. the interests of the people of the Territory. 
I said earlier that I did not want to speak at length or develop these arguments in depth. Nevertheless I thought that I should make these few remarks. I believe that it would be foolish of us to assume that independence will solve all problems in the Territory. The new leaders of the Territory are going to face a heady experience. We must expect problems and disappointment. Problems do exist and some of them are serious. Surely our objective must be to win their confidence, to provide guidance when they want it and to encourage them by winning their confidence to come to us for guidance so that the Territory can develop in peace and in security, which I am sure is what we all wish the people of the Territory. 
1 was intrigued with 2 statements made by  Senator Poke.  The first was an admission, which I had never before heard from a member of the Australian Labor Party, that many workers - he did not define them and I will deal with that point in a moment - voted for the Government. We have been saying that for years but it certainly was news to hear the admission from a member of the Australian Labor Party. I wonder what those workers think when the Government is accused of continually attacking the working man. One can only assume that by continuing to vote for us they are indicating that they agree with what we are saying. It is true that many people who are generally and loosely termed workers do not approve of the actions of many of their union leaders. Too often they are frightened to say so publicly, but when it comes to the secrecy of the ballot box they indicate clearly their disagreement with their union leaders. 
I noted with some interest that  Senator Poke  and many of his colleagues used the term 'worker'. When my colleague  Senator Withers  suggested to  Senator Poke  that he define 'worker', and then challenged him to do so, the challenge was not accepted. This is the dilemma which faces the Australian Labor Party. Members of that Party do not know who the workers are. They use this loose expression, but when they are challenged to define it they are unable to do so.  Senator Cavanagh,  who is now interjecting, tried to help  Senator Poke,  but even the pair of them could not find a definition for the word 'worker'. I was intrigued by  Senator Poke's  statement and then his inability to say what he meant. 
I come now to the Budget. Although I have not been in this place to see 16 Budgets, as has  Senator Poke,  I have seen a number of them. I cannot recall a Budget which has received greater support throughout the community than has this one. 
The honourable senator must have seen a gallup poll that 1 have not seen. Despite what my friend  Senator McLaren  says, the Budget has received greater support throughout the community than has any other Budget that I can recall. This was because the Budget was completely in line with Liberal Party philosophy, dealing also with the main problems in the community. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  at the second page of the Budget Speech referred to a major problem when he said: 
This slackness in consumer spending has been basic to the economy's lack of punch. Our first objective in this Budget, therefore, is to create conditions conducive to stronger consumer spending. 
I shall come to thai in a moment. The Treasurer went on to deal with a matter which has been of great concern to everyone in the community. I refer to the question of inflation, in respect of which he said: 
I nm glad to say that the heightening tendency has been stopped and there are even some signs that a reversal may be in train. The price indices themselves have slowed somewhat in their upward rush. 

 Senator Gietzelt referred to the need to generate greater spending in the public sector. No doubt that is Labor Party philosophy, but certainly it is not ours. Under the heading 'Philosophy and Objectives' the Treasurer said something which many of us on this side of the chamber have been urging for some time, that is that the private sector of the economy should be assisted because no wealth is produced by the public sector; it is produced by the private sector. The public sector simply cannot continue to expand unless wealth is produced by the private sector. For too long we have witnessed the private sector bearing a burden which has been far too heavy. The Treasurer acknowledged this when he said: 
Secondly, for some time now public sector spending has run ahead very fast, with private sector spending lagging. There are important needs served by our public expenditures but there are also costs - whether from the viewpoint of the individual taxpayer, who finds taxation more and more a burden, or of the private sector as a whole, which finds its room for growth constrained. 
It is central to our objectives that the needed stimulus to the economy should not be by way of an excessive growth of Commonwealth expenditure. We have sought as much scope as possible for reducing the burden of taxation. That has been our primary aim and I believe we have achieved it. 
I think these statements are the very basis of the Budget. Its aim is to expand consumer spending, to overcome the sluggishness in the economy and to give further assistance to the private sector, from which all wealth grows. I suggest that not many people would dispute that. 
The reaction to the Budget by the Labor Party has been interesting. The Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Whitlam)  made a rather pathetic attempt to attack the Budget. For one of the few times in recent history he was taken to task almost unanimously by the Press. I am not a great reader of the Press, nor do I quote from newspapers very often, but in view of the fact that  Senator Poke  used many quotations from one of the Sydney evening newspapers to bolster his case 1 think I should mention that it was significant that the 'Sydney Morning Herald', with other newspapers, was very critical in its editorial of  Mr Whitlam's  effort, or lack of it. 
 The 'Sydney Morning Herald'. I commend a reading of it to the honourable senator, if he has not read it. lt will do his heart good. It may not do his morale much good, but he will benefit from reading it. The editorial which appeared in that newspaper on Thursday. 24th August, had some harsh things to say. The editorial began: 
It would be unrealistic to expect  Mr Whitlam  in his Budget speech not to look towards the election. What is dismaying in the speech is not this but its low opinion of the intelligence and sophistication of the electorate. It offered little analysis. It offered not the foggiest notion of what Labors fiscal alternatives might be. It was brazen in its insincerity. 
They are rather strong words, but they were justifiable words when one considers the hotch-potch which went for a speech by  Mr Whitlam.  A little later the editorial stated: 
Far too much of this ill-considered speech consisted of mere abuse and denigration unsupported by rational and detailed argument. 
From that start, which was not very promising for an attack by the Labor Party, either here or in another place, one can say that the Opposition has never got off the ground.  Senator Poke  hardly dealt with the Budget at all during his remarks. One of  Mr Whitlam's  complaints was that it was a rich man's Budget. No doubt this was an appeal to the socialist mind to which this type of denigration has some appeal. 
Perhaps that is why they are so quiet. Perhaps it does appeal to the rich men among them. 
Perhaps they have some explanation for this.  1  ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The honourable senator should make up his mind and tell us on whose side he is. I will pause while  Senator Mulvihill  tells me whose side he is on. 
No, 1 am asking you. The honourable senator should not try to dodge my question. He is interjecting. 
It is not the honourable senators silence that is golden but his lack of acceptance of my challenge. This is most significant because certainly not only the rural areas and primary producers may suffer but also the economy will suffer if hot money starts to flow into Australia, lt would be against our national interest for a decision of this sort to be made. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
When the debate was interrupted last night I had been reminded by my colleague  Senator Webster  that perhaps the muteness of the Australian Labor Party over the Budget was because its supporters really believe the claim that it is a rich man's Budget and therefore so many of them stand to gain from it. However, I cannot accept this proposition. Despite  Senator Poke  reading from the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to try to prove the contrary, it sets out quite clearly the reductions in taxation over a wide range of incomes, and it proves quite clearly that the income tax concessions are aimed to benefit the lower income workers and those with families. I do not intend to go right through this document, but I propose to look at 2 or 3 examples. If we look at the percentage decreases in taxation - after all, it is the percentage decreases that are important - we find that a taxpayer with a dependent wife and 2 dependent children and earning a formerly taxable income of $2,808 will now pay tax on only $2,652. 
The percentage decrease in his tax payment will be 22.3. 
The taxable income of a man with a dependent wife and 2 dependent children of $5,124 now drops to $4,968. The percentage decrease in his tax payment will be 15.3. The percentage decrease for a taxpayer with the same taxable income but with a dependent wife and 4 dependent children will be 19.2. In the higher brackets of taxable income - there would be very few, if any, honourable senators on this side of the chamber in these brackets - the percentage decrease on a taxable income of $18,000 for a man with a dependent wife and 4 dependent children will be only 9.1. If we take those figures as meaning anything, they show quite clearly that the objective of the taxation decrease is to help those people on lower incomes and not those people on higher incomes. Therefore it would be very difficult to sustain the argument put forward by  Mr Whitlam,  and he made no attempt to sustain it. 
I deal now with 2 or 3 matters in the Budget which gave me particular pleasure. One was the substantial increase in social service benefits, coupled with the further easing of the means test with the ultimate objective of abolishing it within 3 years. In fairness I should say that honourable senators on all sides of the chamber have been advocating this for some time. No-one advocated it with greater force in recent times than the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  The other matter to which I make reference is the new rates of estate duty coupled with the increased exemptions in the field of gift duty. I think those 2 matters should be coupled. For years many honourable senators on this side of the chamber have been advocating such a step. Prior to my election to the Senate I was urging on various committees 2 things. One was a reduction in estate duty by both Commonwealth and State. In recent times I have shown by my vote that I believe that the Commonwealth should vacate the field of estate duty. This move is in the right direction and is a move towards, I would hope, an ultimate decision by the Commonwealth to vacate the field. The move certainly will be of great benefit to a large number of people, particularly in the rural industries. 
I suppose that the great question posed by the Budget is whether people will accept the increased purchasing power and will spend to get the economy moving and not continue to save. This is a matter of confidence. I believe that the Budget should provide the confidence for the community to start spending again. The only matter that worries me is the continued threat of inflation. The Treasurer noted that there had been a modest abatement. Inflation will at all times require very careful watching. We do not want to see the increased purchasing power being eroded by ever increasing prices. 
Having spoken on matters relating to the Budget, I am provoked to refer now to the economic situation in Western Australia. I am provoked to do so by the efforts of Opposition members in another place who have been attacking the Commonwealth Government and claiming that it is responsible for the present rather difficult economic situation in Western Australia and the relatively high rate, by Australian standards, of unemployment. This unemployment situation is a terribly interesting one because under Labor governments the States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania have the highest levels of unemployment in Australia. Western Australia has the highest level at 2.99 per cent, South Australia has the second highest level at 2.39 per cent and Tasmania has the third highest level at 2.38 per cent. If my arithmetic is correct, the average for the 3 Labor governed States is 2.59 per cent. Let me be fair and say that in Western Australia there are local conditions which provide some cause for concern, but they do not provide the cause of the exceedingly high rate of unemployment. The slow-down in the mining areas has created some economic problems in the State. In the States governed by non-Labor governments there is a different story. In Queensland the percentage of unemployment is 1.39, in New South Wales it is 1.66 and in Victoria it is 1.65. The average for the 3 non-Labor governed States is 1.57 per cent. So, there is a 1 per cent difference between the unemployment figures for Labor governed States and those for non-Labor governed States. 
I would imagine that if Commonwealth policy were responsible for the high level of unemployment in the Labor governed 
States that policy would affect the whole of the Commonwealth. If not, anybody who makes the allegation that the high level of unemployment is due to Commonwealth policy should substantiate his case by producing evidence. I suggest that the evidence shows quite clearly that the high levels of unemployment are in those States which are governed by Labor governments. There is some explanation for that. I would go even further and say that this fact should be a horrible lesson for the people of Australia. If they want unemployment they should elect Labor governments. Those people who wish to contradict these figures should try to do so. Let them produce the evidence to show the reasons why there is a lower rate of unemployment in Liberal governed States and how the Commonwealth Government is able to achieve this result in those States but is not able to achieve it in Labor governed States. 
That is an interesting theory. I suggest that instead of making a bland statement such as that  Senator Cavanagh  should, when the opportunity offers, produce the evidence to substantiate it. Perhaps the situation is due to policies that he is not game to admit. Let us examine the situation in Western Australia. Let us not make statements. Let us look at the facts of Commonwealth assistance to Western Australia. 
And to South Australia. I am quite happy to look at that also.  Mr Whitlam  recently rushed in to help his colleague in Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  who needs it.  Mr Whitlam  was reported in the Perth 'Dally News' of Thursday, 17th August, as saying: 
WA was penalised more than any other State by the blunders of the McMahon Government's 1971 Budget. 
No proof, just a bald statement. He was also reported as saying: 
WA was neglected more than any other State by the 1972 Budget. 
The article contained an astounding statement by him, as honourable senators will see. The article continued: 
Outlining Labor's 6-point plan to solve WA's unemployment crisis  Mr Whitlam  said that WA needed the most national help, but was getting the least. 1 will examine that statement in a moment. I did not know that Budgets were aimed at assisting particular States. Budgets provide for national goals and national objectives. They provide the policies to achieve those goals and objectives. The States are assisted through Premiers Conferences and Loan Council meetings. 
1 am reminded of what happened a few years ago. I made the statement that under Labor governments there is a higher rate of unemployment. I remind the Senate that in the 1950s Western Australia had a Labor government led by  Mr Hawke.  This was a time of over-full employment. But in Western Australia there was the highest rate of unemployment in Australia.  Mr Hawke  had to appeal to the Commonwealth Government, as  Mr Tonkin  has now done, for special funds to assist. 
No, his uncle, and just about as disastrous. He had to appeal for $4m from the Commonwealth as a special grant to assist unemployment in Western Australia. I recall that he received $2m and that not one penny of it went to relieve unemployment. Then the people of Western Australia got fed up and elected another government. Within 12 months Western Australia had the lowest rate of unemployment in Autralia. The people had elected a government of enterprise and initiative that got the State moving again. History is repeating itself. It will be interesting to see after the next election how Western Australia starts to get on the move once again. Indeed, the Leader of the Opposition,  Sir Charles  Court, has already issued a challenge to the Labor Government to get out and to let a decent government get in. He undertakes that unemployment will be reduced in a matter of months. After the performance in 1959- 60 no-one can doubt that. 

 Mr Whitlam and  Mr Tonkin  have said that Western Australia is receiving the least help. I am reminded that when returning from the Premiers Conference and the meeting of the Australian Loan Council,  Mr Tonkin  expressed himself as being completely satisfied with the good deal that Western Australia had received. He said: 1 have done a lot better than I expected'. Now we have a complete change of face. One must wonder and ask the question: Why a change of face? As is the case with  Mr Whitlam,  he so easily and cheaply puts all the blame on the Commonwealth for all of the ills suffered by Western Australia. But when we look at the facts - they are worth looking at - we will see that they support  Mr Tonkin's  original claim that Western Australia had been treated well. Incidentally, it is worth mentioning that perhaps  Mr Tonkin  does not take the unemployment situation as seriously as do some of his colleagues in the eastern States because on a television interview recently after he advocated that Australia should take a number of Ugandan Asians he was asked about the unemployment situation in Western Australia. The transcript shows that he said: 
It  is  true that all States have an unemployment problem and it  is  difficult at the present time to put these people to work but this is not going to last forever; this is a temporary stage through which countries have passed through before and which we have passed through before. 
So according to that statement he was not particularly worried. He said that it was just a temporary stage and that it would soon be over. I wish to examine the facts. The facts are that through direct Commonwealth capital expenditure in Western Australia and through shares of the borrowing programme approved by the Australian Loan Council of non-unemployment relief grants Western Australia comes out far better than any other State except Tasmania. Western Australia receives a greater per capita share of both revenue and capital funds than any other State except Tasmania. It will receive special additional general revenue grants of $3.5m in 1972- 73,  Senator Wright  gave some of these figures the other day. I think that they are worth repeating in view of what has gone on in the other place and that Australians and particularly Western Australians should be reminded of this. It has Loan Council approval for a special addition of $3m to its share of the larger authority borrowing programmes for 1972-73. It will continue to benefit from the arrangements whereby the special assistance grant of  Si  5.5m paid to the State  in  1968-69 and 1969-70  is  being progressively transferred to the State's larger authority borrowing programmes. The amount of additional borrowing authority for 1972-73 is $6m. The State will continue to  benefit  from special permanent additions to the programme for previous years totalling $5m. It  is  receiving $450,000 a month as grants under the non-metropolitan unemployment relief scheme. 
Commonwealth direct capital expenditure in Western Australia in 1972-73  is  estimated to increase by 12 per cent on expenditure in 1971-72. So  in  simple terms no-one can complain that  Western  Australia is not doing pretty well. I repeat that  it  will receive  in  1972-73 more general revenue assistance per head of population than any other State except Tasmania. Of course, this has been the  case  for many years. If we are to understand this quite clearly we must look at some of the tables which set out the Commonwealth payments to the States. I shall not read right through them; I shall pick put a couple. New South Wales is the largest State. In general revenue assistance on  a  per capita basis, in 1971-72 New South Wales received $107.42. This year it will receive $111.50. In South Australia, which also has the second highest level of unemployment in Australia, the amount of per capita assistance has increased from $144.93 to $169.42. In Western Australia, the figure has risen from $169.53 to $185.40. The Australian average of per capita assistance is $131.76. So Western Australia is $50 on a per capita basis above the Australian average. 
In regard to specific purpose revenue payments, we have the same types of figures. If we turn to the total revenue assistance we find that in 1971-72 the per capita grant to New South Wales was $126.07. This year, the figure  is  $136.99 which, in round figures, represents an increase of $10. In South Australia, the figure increased from $164.68 to $195.42, an increase of about $31. In Western Australia, the figure increased from $189.79 to $213.39, an increase of about $24. The average increase throughout Australia was $17. Here again, Western Australia is receiving special assistance. In addition to this, the Commonwealth also supported a borrowing programme for the larger State local and semi-government authorities such as the metropolitan water, sewerage and drainage boards, to a total of $48 8m. Western Australia's share of this programme was $33m which was $8m more than it was last year. This includes a special temporary allocation of $3m sought by the Premier in view of the relatively high level of unemployment in the Perth metropolitan area. 
If we look at the attached tables we find that the same type of picture emerges as that which emerged in the case of the general revenue grant. Let us look at the loan State works and housing programme and the capital funds available from the Loan Council. Without going through them in detail, we find that in regard to the semigovernment and local authority borrowing which is money spent in the State, the funds provided to New South Wales increased on a per capita basis by $4. In South Australia, the amount increased by $1.50 and in Western Australia by $8. So we find that over the total borrowing programmes and specific purpose capital grants on a per capita basis the amount granted to Western Australia increased by $15 and in New South Wales by $14. On these figures there is no justification for  Mr Whitlam's  statement. In fact, it is rather careless of the truth to say that Western Australia has received the least help. The record clearly shows that, with the exception of Tasmania which has its own peculiar problems, Western Australia receives more help on a per capita basis from the Commonwealth than any other State, not only this year but every year. South Australia - this other Labor Government State - is pretty well next in every other case. 
So  we  have to find reasons other than blaming the Commonwealth, which is the easy way out and not the honest way out. I will be interested to hear if anybody - particularly  Mr Tonkin  - can contradict what. I am saying. I suggest that on the evidence it is not a lack of funds; it is the maladministration in the State Government that is causing the problem. All that is lacking, I suggest, is the competence to employ the funds that are available. 
The problem that faces Western Australia lies clearly with the State Government. That Government has proved to be a government of monumental inefficiency and incompetence because in 18 months Western Australia has gone from a State brimming with confidence - a State that was really on the move - to one which has a confidence crisis. A confidence crisis is caused only by a crisis in leadership, by muddled, weak thinking and by muddled, weak leadership. This is the clear issue that faces Western Australia where private enterprise and private initiative are being restricted and where the Government does not know where it is going. I believe it is fair to say that the Government of Western Australia does not know where it has been and does not know where it wants to go. Indeed, I doubt whether it even knows today where it is. 
What I have outlined is a simple proposition of facts that face Western Australia. Those who wish to place all the blame on the Commonwealth had better look at the facts because no matter how they might try to spread this propaganda the truth will come out in the end. The truth is coming out in Western Australia more and more. We hear more and more that what is wrong is a question of confidence, a question of leadership and a question of good government. When Western Australia returns to good government, as it will after the next State election, we will then have the same type of situation that we had in 1959 where in a period of 12 months Western Australia went from a State on the verge of bankruptcy and a State that had made no progress whatever to a situation which resulted in the greatest progress in any period of its history. Indeed, I suppose that Western Australia became the envy of most other States. Western Australia was in this position only because of the presence of a government that created a feeling of confidence and gave enterprise and initiative full rein. This is all that is needed in Western Australia today. 
I want to conclude my remarks by referring to a matter that has been referred to before. It is necessary that I say something about this subject. I noted today that the  President,  of the Chamber of Commerce said that we should stop talking about the revaluation problem. I think that there is something in this. I want to make three comments about this matter. I think it is quite correct for the Reserve Bank of Australia to express some opinion - an independent opinion. The Bank is within its rights, and indeed may well have a responsibility, to express an opinion on the state of. the Australian currency. Also it is correct for other sections of the community to make some judgments. The responsibility of a government is different. A government's responsibility is to make clear thai it does not intend to revalue the currency if it is not its intention to do so. To do anything else would be irresponsible and crazy. The Government has made its attitude crystal clear. There can always be differences of opinion on such matters as this, particularly in a world today which is going through currency and trading crises. In my view it would be foolish for any of us, or certain financial sections of the community, to take inflexible stances on this. We could well be faced with another currency crisis in the world in which world currencies would be realigned. There may be overnight a change of view. 
We will come to that in a moment. The position I have been describing is not the problem of the Government. The Government's problem and responsibility are clear. The Government has made its attitude quite clear. 
I am bound to say that we have to take into consideration the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  because I believe that what he has to say is a matter of great importance if we are to look at the Australian Labor Party as an alternative government. The attitude of the Leader of the Opposition must be accepted overseas as the attitude of an alternative Prime Minister. When he speaks on such matters people overseas are entitled to accept what he says as an authoritative view of what he in fact would do. 
 I will just put one question to  Senator Mulvihill  because the honourable senator has to make up his mind as to whose side he is on. 
I want to know whether the honourable senator is on  Mr Whitlam's  side or  Mr Crean's  side because he cannot have 2 bob each way. He must make up his mind. 
Do not try to get me off the subject. I will not be put off. I will stay on it for the next couple of minutes. This is a matter which is of the greatest importance to Australia because the dangers of the alternative Prime Minister making statements in the categorical terms in which he made them must be evident to all, if not evident to him. 
I do not think there has been a single case in recent times upon which the Press throughout Australia has agreed. I said last night that I was not an avid reader of the leading articles in newspapers. As a matter of fact, I do not always take much notice of them. But our friends opposite read them with great glee when it suits them. Therefore I must be excused if sometimes I respond with great glee. Only the other day I noticed that the 'West Australian' newspaper of 26th August said much the same as I have just said about the responsibility of the Government and the responsibility of the Leader of the Opposition. The article stated: 
The world is entitled to think that the leader of Australia's alternative government is committed to a course. 
The article went on to be bitterly critical. The article also stated: 

 Mr Whitlam has issued an open invitation to international speculators to pour hot money into Australia on a bet that a change of government will result in an alteration to the currency. 
I will not get into an argument as to whether some sections would benefit or some would not if the currency was revalued. This is a matter which I am not discussing here. What I am discussing is the irresponsibility of statements such as these which are, of course, damaging to the national interest. I find no greater condemnation of  Mr Whitlam's  statement than a statement made by  Mr Crean,  the shadow Treasurer whom we all accept as being  a  man of talents and responsibility. A report of an interview of  Mr Crean  by  Mr Kenneth  Davidson appeared in the 'Australian' of 25th August.  Mr Crean  had this to say about the Australian currency: 
The Australian dollar is definitely not overvalued, however it would be irresponsible for an alternative government to say they intended to appreciate the currency which could spark off a speculative inflow of hot money. 
That is right. This is the issue on which I am concentrating my comments. 
That Ls our understanding.  Senator Wright.  That is his view. All I want to say to members of the Opposition who yesterday, when  Senator Maunsell  was speaking on this subject, became rather hot under the collar - and with good cause T might add - ls that they have to make up their minds individually because they will be asked on whose side they are in this matter, particularly in rural areas in regard to primary producers. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was Australia one of the first nations to recognise the state of Bangladesh? Was the application by Bangladesh, a newly independent country, to join the United Nations organisation vetoed by the People's Republic of China, a nation which the Australian Labor Party is anxious to recognise unconditionally? Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of any representations or protests from the Australian Labor Party against the action of the People's Republic of China? 
I have listened to  Senator Negus  with a great deal of sympathy because I agree that talking will not solve this problem. Having said that, I wish to make 2 or 3 points. Firstly, as  chairman  of the Senate Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee to which this reference will be passed, if that be the will of the Senate, I feel it would be improper for me to engage in discussion of the subject matter of this debate. I feel that I must retain some independence in making decisions on a matter such as this. My friend  Senator Georges  tells me, by way of interjection to sit down. I will nol oblige him. I do not intend tonight to engage in arguing whether Croatians or some other group are involved in terrorist activities. This would be improper, I suggest. However, I wish to make several points. Firstly, terrorism as practised by various groups in Australia is a problem of great importance and great concern. It is of great importance and great concern not only throughout Australia but throughout the world. Some people have expressed surprise that these events have occurred in Australia. I do not know why they have expressed surprise, because I believe it was inevitable that they would occur here. But they occur not only among migrant groups, be they Croatians or other nationals, they occur among Australians.  Senator Negus  referred to the fact that 2 young men have been arrested in Melbourne for allegedly having planted a bomb in the office of the Department of Labour and National Service in Perth. They are not members of a national group with some real or imagined grievance, they are Australians. They wished to give expression to what they believed to be a grievance by violence and acts of terrorism. 
Therefore, I think that if we are to examine acts of terrorism in Australia the motion should not be concerned only, as is the case with this motion, with one particular group. We should be concerned with all acts of terrorism and all acts of subversion in Australia which include a great number of groups including Australian. I recall that reference has been made today to the feud and the acts of violence and intimidation that are taking place amongst the painters and dockers in Melbourne. Also, I am reminded of the acts of violence, intimidation and terrorism practised by the Builders Workers' Industrial Union in New South Wales and the attacks upon trade union officials, acts of violence and terrorism and the attemps to intimidate them. 
These are the facts of what is occurring in this country today. If we are to investigate this then surely the motion which is before the Senate should be expanded to investigate all acts of violence, all acts of terrorism and all acts of intimidation which I suggest always have been foreign to our way of life. It is a matter of great concern to us that these things should be happening. But I do not know how we can be separated from what is happening throughout the world. I am indebted to an article which appeared in the 'London Economist' dated 9th September 1972 which dealt with this matter in a manner which I think should be read by us all. It lays down clearly the issues involved. I shall quote some of the statements made. Unfortunately, it is an unsigned article; so we do not know who wrote it. The report is headed 'They are among us'. Who can deny that they are among us? They are among us in various groups, not only national groups with real or imagined grievances but also, as I have said, they are among groups of Australians. I do not wish to belabour the point, but a prominent member of the Australian Labor Party, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F Cairns)  is reported to have said in the daily Press of August 1970: 'I sincerely hope that authority has had its day'. What does this mean? Honourable senators opposite who attempt to interject should remember that I am only quoting from the reports in the Press. If that is not correct, then let it be corrected. This is an invitation to anarchy, terrorism and violence. This is the situation in which we find ourselves. It is world wide. Let me quote from the 'London Economist'. I think that it is a lesson we should all take to heart and words of which we should all take note. This article states: 
We are going to have to live with the man in the hood for  a  long time; certainly until the present generation of terrorists, the Slack September men- 
We all know who they are. They are the Arab terrorists who committed the atrocities in Munich which we all deplore. The article continues:   . . and the Provos- 
I am informed that that is the IRA:   . . and the rest, has expended itself in death or defeat; and very likely longer than that, until the force that drives such men, the calculation that such methods can bring them what they want, has been disproved by repeated failure, and they have no more imitators. 
Surely this should be a lesson to us. Surely the lesson at Munich is that if you win, others will copy you. May I say that I have great admiration for the Government of Israel in the case of hijacks. We recall what happened at an airport when the aircraft with the hijackers on board was shot at. Any of us could have been among the unfortunate passengers who were on the aircraft. But what the Israelis taught us is that we cannot permit hijackers to be the winners. If this is to continue, somebody must be the loser. The loser must be those who engaged in this sort of intimidation and terrorism. If the innocent suffer, that, unfortunately, is too bad. If we always give in to these people - if, for instance, in Munich they had been surrendered to - the price would be higher. If the Israeli Government had surrendered to the hijackers in Israel the next price would have been higher. As this article says: 'It is the winners who are copied; not the losers'. Surely this must be a lesson to us all. I think we should take note of this article because it is a brilliant one which has lessons for us all. It goes on to state: 
This is the new international community of the possessed. It could take years, perhaps even the rest of the lifetime of people who are now barely middle-aged, before this phenomenon is destroyed, or destroys itself. Until then we shall have to live with the possibility of men with concealed faces, and concealed minds, breaking with machine-guns and bombs into the normal life of many people in many different countries. 
The article continues - this should be noted: 
The world itself is no worse than usual; but the obsessed are prepared to do worse things to have their way about it. Modern weapons help them; the day will come when suicidal urban terrorists of a kind the world has not yet seen will have a nuclear device at their disposal. The very sophistication of the modern society that has mounted this year's Olympics helps them. The immediacy, of world communications, especially the television coverage on which all terrorists have come to rely, helps them immeasurably. That is what ls new. And so long as they have reason to believe that the methods they use will bring the results they want, the terrorists will go on with their campaigns. 
I am reminded that in the 19th century there was a group of wandering terrorists which believed that it could destroy European society by the use of bombs and threats. The members of that group failed. There is nothing new about this. What is new is the methods used - the communications. This is what is new and this is what is so frightening. I echo the words of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who said today - these may not have been his exact words - that these people are not patriots; they are criminals and the whole force of the law should be brought against them, even to the extent of the death penalty. I do not believe that we should retreat from this ultimate penalty. If these people are as bad as we believe they are and as bad as I believe they are, this is the ultimate penalty that they should suffer. If they can succeed and if they believe that the penalties imposed upon them are such that their crimes will be worthwhile, they will continue to commit these crimes. The challenge to society today is such that the penalty must destroy them. They must be led to believe that they cannot succeed. It has always been my view that it is the naive hope of many Australians that we can be immune from the events which are occurring in the world today and that they cannot happen here. It was inevitable that it would happen here. 
I said at the outset that I would not involve myself in an argument as to the rights or wrongs of this case. I believe, rightly or wrongly, that it would be improper for me to do so. Should it be the will of the Senate that this matter be referred to the committee of which I am the  chairman,  1 give the assurance that the inquiry would be carried with vigour and with vigilance. That is the least I can do. My opposition to this proposed reference is that I believe it is inappropriate for a Senate or parliamentary committee. The Attorney-General set out certain views on this matter and, having heard him, I find myself in agreement with him. I believe at this stage that this is a matter for the police and the judiciary of this country. It should be pursued with vigour by the police until these people are brought to trial. 
It is very easy to say that the police have not brought anybody to trial. Of course, they have brought some people to trial. Some people have been arrested, tried and found guilty. Whether the penalties imposed on them are sufficient is a matter of opinion, and if I may venture an opinion I suggest that the penalties have been inadequate. Nevertheless some people have been brought to trial. A parliamentary committee could not pursue this matter in an atmosphere such as that which exists today so as to produce the results that all of us desire. If the police, both State and Commonwealth, cannot produce results within a reasonable time I would support a royal commission. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  today, I understand, expressed himself as not being opposed eventually to a royal commission which I believe would be the proper way to pursue this matter if these people are not found and tried. 
I will not argue about what is a reasonable time. As  Senator Georges  knows full well - I do not refer to this in any partisan way - men, painters and dockers, have been murdered in Melbourne and others have been shot. Others are missing and are believed to have been murdered. As one of my colleagues said, on one occasion a man was murdered in the presence of 30 or 40 people and none of them knew anything about it. The police have been unable to find the criminal. Very serious problems are involved. It is of no use pointing to the police and saying that they have not discovered the culprits involved in the bombings in Sydney. That was a dastardly act for which I can find no sympathy. I say again that the ultimate penalty should be provided for those responsible. It is horrifying that these things should happen in this country or in any country. However, if the police have problems, because of a lack of cooperation among other members of the union, in finding those responsible for shooting and murdering trade unionists it is logical to assume that they will have great problems in the matter before us because of a lack of co-operation. Maybe the lack of co-operation is due to fear; maybe it is because of other reasons. Therefore I cannot define what is a reasonable time. So long as the police are pursuing this matter with vigour and to the best of their ability - I believe they are and I would not suggest otherwise - I have so much confidence in them that I believe that those responsible ultimately will be brought to trial. If they are found guilty, I hope that the penalty will be such that it will deter others from attempting the same thing. 
There is nothing new about these sorts of activities. They occurred in Montreal with the French secessionists when a Canadian Minister was kidnapped and murdered. Bombs were planted which killed and maimed citizens of France. We have seen the Black September movement amongst the Arabs, and we know of the horrifying situation in Ulster today. These are matters of great concern not only to the people of Canada and of Israel; they are of concern to people throughout the world. Therefore, I believe that the matter referred to in this motion properly belongs to the police for investigation. It is not the role of Parliament to take over investigations of this type. I do not believe that that can be done. I said that should this matter be referred to the Committee I, as  Chairman,  would carry it out to the very best of my ability. I give that assurance to the Senate. I would do it. However, I do not underestimate the problems involved. I do not underestimate the problem of protecting witnesses or of protecting members of the Committee. However if. it is the will of the Senate we must face up to that. I do not believe that anybody doubts my sincerity about these matters, and I say with great sincerity that at this stage this would be an impossible task for a Senate Committee to undertake. 
For many reasons. We would be involved in a highly emotional matter. People would be defamed. People would make allegations, perhaps founded and perhaps unfounded, and people's names would be blackened and they would have little redress. May I put. an administrative problem to the Senate: We would have great problems in finding people. 
Honourable senators who have sat on Senate committees would realise - it is obvious - that the strength and ability of a committee to carry out an investigation depends firstly on the quality of the people it has to do the necessary research and to act as consultants. We would have to find somebody who was fluent in the languages of the countries concerned and that person would have to be independent of all the disputes and conflicts in that part of the world. 
We need only look at history. We need only look back to the spark - the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand - which started the First World War. We remember also the assassination of King Alexander in Marseilles in 1934. What has happened since? There have been tremendous conflicts in the Balkans and, so far as this issue is concerned, particularly between the Serbs and the Croats and the people who live in Yugoslavia. It is not for us to pass judgment on these conflicts. They are real - more than real - in the minds of those who live there. They believe that they have the right of self-determination and of independence. A parliamentary committee investigating these matters would have to find someone who was independent of ail these conflicts to advise it; someone who could speak the languages and could interpret the evidence because we would find that the English of many of the witnesses was imperfect. We would need to have someone to translate documents. I understand from the AttorneyGenera] that at present the Commonwealth police are having tremendous difficulty in finding people capable of translating documents seized in raids carried out already by Commonwealth and State police in an effort to pin down the culprits responsible for these actions. 
I cannot understand the proposed terms of reference. They refer to one element only, the so-called Ustasha. I know nothing about these people. Maybe they exist. If they do, I am sure that no honourable senator would support them. But what about those people who engage in acts of violence and terrorism against the Croats? There are some such people. We have had instances of bombing and intimidation of those people. Why are they not included in this motion? Why should we not investigate them as well? Why should this be a one-sided investigation? If this matter is to be investigated in a manner which would satisfy the Parliament and the people of Australia, surely the investigation should be widened to include all acts of terrorism, violence and intimidation. This is not a matter to be investigated by a parliamentary committee in a highly-charged political atmosphere. I venture to suggest that eventually the correct procedure will be for the matter to be examined by a royal commission rather than a parliamentary inquiry. If it becomes necessary to investigate the matter I will support the setting up of a royal commission for this purpose. 
At this stage I wonder whether we should have a Senate committee probing into police investigations. I have far more faith in Commonwealth and State police than perhaps some honourable senators opposite have. It would be a matter for the committee to decide whether evidence should be given in public. Are the police to be required, perhaps in public, to provide information as to the progress of their investigations? If they are required to do so that could well prejudice their investigations^ - indeed, it would do so. 
I believe that matters of great and vital importance are involved in this. I give no support to terrorists of any kind. I believe that if they are found - I sincerely hope that they will be found - the full rigour of the law should be brought upon them and, if the penalties provided by law are insufficient, that the parliaments of this country, State or Federal, should provide for penalties which are sufficient to act as a deterrent against actions of this kind. We do not want the people who committed these acts to be regarded as patriots. They are not patriots. They are criminals and they should be regarded as criminals. I cannot accept the argument that because they are fighting for something in which they believe they should be regarded as patriots. We do not want the ancient enmities of Europe, from the Balkans or elsewhere, brought to light in Australia. If these people bring their enmities to Australia and offend against the laws of this country or against the principles of our society, society should provide penalties that will deter them from continuing with acts  of  this kind. 
I repeat my belief that it is inappropriate, for a number of reasons, many of which have been stated by the AttorneyGeneral, for this matter to be the subject of a parliamentary inquiry at this stage. I believe that an inquiry of this nature may well prejudice the situation, quite apart from the physical difficulties of carrying out an urgent inquiry. 1 believe that my Committee would approach an inquiry into this matter with the greatest goodwill in the world and would treat it as a matter of great importance. But if it were charged with the responsibility of conducting an inquiry, regardless of what it found, by the time it reported to the Parliament it would be too late. This is so for many reasons, one of which is the situation in which we find ourselves today with elections coming on. If one were to make a haphazard guess - it can be no more than that - with the greatest goodwill in the world the Committee would not be able to report before the middle of next year. That could be too late. This matter is of greater urgency than that. There is an urgency about finding the criminals and bringing them to justice. 
It should be the endeavour of each and every one of us to assist the Commonwealth and State police to bring these people to justice and to expose them to the full rigour of the law. This is the attitude that I take and it is for this reason that I oppose the motion. If the police fail - 1 repeat that I do not believe they will fail - a royal commission would then be the appropriate means to investigate this matter and to bring to light all the evidence and facts available. A parliamentary committee would not be appropriate for this purpose. As a great supporter and advocate of parliamentary committees  -  I do not think anybody would deny that 1 am that - it is my judgment that this is not an appropriate matter for a parliamentary committee. However, should the police investigations fail I would support the setting up of a royal commission for this purpose. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Firstly, has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report by 2 research economists in which they severely criticise the high level of protection granted to the motor car industry in Australia and its effect on standards and prices? Secondly, in view of this report will the Minister consult his colleague, the 
Minister for Trade and Industry, with a view to expediting a Tariff Board inquiry into this highly protected industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. I refer to a decision by the Australian Gas Light Company to accept a Japanese tender of S54m for steel pipe. Is it a fact that the General Manager of AGL has stated that Tubemakers of Australia Ltd indicated in writing that it could not manufacture steel pipes of 36-inch diameter? Does Australia seek the liberalisation of trade with Japan to gain easier access to the Japanese market for Australian agricultural and other products? If so, is not it time that Australia adopted a consistent trade policy and practised what it preaches? Is it a fact that Australian iron ore and coal would provide most of the raw material for the manufacture of the steel pipes? Finally, can the Government clearly define the term 'suitable and equivalent'? 
I rise briefly to support the Bills and the amendment. I have already on 2 occasions in the Senate supported a similar amendment. If  Senator Byrne  had not moved this amendment, I would have been most inclined to have moved one in similar terms. My objection to estate duty goes back a very long time. Indeed, many elements in the Liberal Party have objected to it over the last 15 years or more. I think that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  will recall the time when he and 1 served together on the Federal Rural Committee of the Liberal Party in about 1956 or 1957. 
It might be back further than that, but 1 remember that he and I on several occasions joined together in urging that the Commonwealth make greater concessions in relation to estate duty. At that time we were concerned mainly with the rural community. 
 1 was thinking of 1955- 56, but the Minister mentioned 1953. His memory may be a little better than mine, so 1 will accept that. But certainly in the early and middle 1950s we were rather attracted  -  1 think the Minister will recall this - to the United Kingdom scheme of abatement on rural properties. Gradually we came to the view that rural properties should be exempt from Federal estate duty. Indeed today it is the announced policy of the Federal Rural Committee of the 
Liberal Party that rural estates - it has dealt only with this area - should be exempt from Federal estate duty. I go further than that because I believe, and have voted in the Senate in support of the principle, that the Federal Government should vacate completely the field of estate duty. We are not in a position here to dictate to the States, but one would hope that at least they would take note of the actions of the Federal Government. Whether they retain estate or probate duty is a matter for their decisions, but it is hoped that they would not try to increase their revenue from estate duty because the Federal Government had abandoned this tax. I would hope that if they did the Federal Government would take action against the States to ensure that they made no financial gain from such action. There is nothing new in the attitude of honourable senators on this side of the Senate. I believe that over the years estate duty has penalised those with enterprise and initiative, the people whom we wish to encourage to build up their assets and to increase production. I have always believed that the taxation exemptions for primary producers were designed to encourage them t."&gt; just this - to develop and increase their production and efficiency. While we were doing this, on the one hand, by providing taxation exemptions, on the other hand at the time of death we were penalising them. This was an inconsistent policy. It has been argued that no one can prove that forced sales have taken place, particularly of rural properties, because of the estate duty impost. Perhaps it is very difficult to prove that an estate has been sold for this reason although I think that there are some examples of this having happened. But this is not the sole criterion. Some rural properties have had to borrow heavily. At this stage I think we should pay a tribute to the administration of the Act which was, in many ways, liberal. Exemptions and assistance were given. Nevertheless, eventually the money had to be paid. Many estates were penalised for many years because they had to borrow heavily to meet estate duty. Therefore, to a considerable extent the development of properties was affected by this duty. I announce that 1 will support the amendment as I have supported similar amendments in the past. 
Nevertheless, I welcome the action of the Government in doubling the exemption amount, particularly in the case of family estates, it is a move in the right direction. I also welcome the extension of the exemption for gift duty from $4,000 to $10,000. It has the advantage of giving people a greater freedom, as long as the incidence of estate duty continues, to plan further ahead. I have never been very convinced with the argument that people can plan estates or take out insurance to cover the estate duty. Insurance premiums are not cheap. This could be done and as long as estate duty existed it was a wise insurance. Nevertheless the very fact that heavy premiums had to be met again took away money which could be better used for the development of Australian resources rather than to pay insurance to cover oneself against the ultimate. 

 Senator Webster raised the matter of the cost of administration. It would be very interesting if we could obtain figures as to the cost of the administration of Federal estate duty compared with the gains made by the Treasury. Certainly, they would not be as high as we are sometimes led to believe. Therefore, while I support the Bills before the Senate as being a step in the right direction, I believe that we should again clearly state our view, as many of us have over many years, that the Commonwealth should as quickly as possible vacate this field. One would hope and expect that the State governments would realise that this tax is not a fair tax. It is a tax which penalises enterprise and initiative which we should encourage in this country. Therefore, I speak merely to indicate clearly my attitude and to make it known that I, while supporting the legislation before the Senate, will support the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to forecasts that the price of woollen goods will rise substantially because of the increase in wool prices. I ask the Minister whether the price of woollen goods was reduced when wool prices fell to disastrous levels. 
I was rather surprised a fortnight ago to find that the Opposition was very anxious to force a debate on this Bill since some members on this side including myself had a right to speak because we had publicly declared our position. I do not usually adopt a cynical attitude to the introduction of Bills such as this - I am pretty philosophical about it - but I must say I did feel a little cynical. It may have been only coincidence - I do not want to be unfair - that within a couple of days of my colleagues,  Senator Withers  and  Senator Durack,  and myself having declared our position quite unequivocally at the Western Australian State Conference of the Liberal Party to support the vote for 18-year-olds, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  announced that he intended to introduce a Bill for this purpose into the Senate. I repeat that it may have been only a coincidence, and I am not quarrelling with  Senator Murphy's  right to introduce the Bill or with the tactics he adopted. It is a legitimate political manoeuvre. Nevertheless, it does raise some cynical thoughts in my mind. 
I make my own position quite clear. I have declared publicly my support for the vote for 18-year-olds. The first government in Australia to introduce legislation to provide the vote for ,1 8-year-olds, as my colleague  Senator Withers  reminded us a fortnight ago, was a Liberal-Country Party Government in Western Australia. That legislation had the almost unanimous support of the Liberal 'Party organisation at the Western Australian State Conference of the Liberal Party in July.  Senator Withers  addressed that conference on his own behalf and on behalf of  Senator Durack  and myself in declaring our support for votes for 18-year-olds. Having said that I wish to say that my first responsibility is to convince the Government which I support that it should introduce this kind of legislation. I express some disappointment that it has not done so, but emphasise that for the time being my responsibility is to use all my endeavours in conjunction with the endeavours of others on this side of the 'House who support the granting of the vote to 18-year- olds to convince the Government that such legislation should be introduced. Therefore I do not intend to support the legislation which is before the Senate either tonight or whenever the vote on it is taken. However, I make quite clear to the Senate that if the Government which I support does not within a reasonable time introduce such legislation my attitude could change very quickly. 1 have no desire at this stage to embarrass the Government. Rather, I adopt the attitude, which I hope I have made clear, that I support the granting of the vote to 18-year-olds but that I shall use my endeavours initially- 
Not this time. I make that quite clear,  Senator Devitt  - not this time. I do not want the Opposition to criticise me on this. Let us all be frank: Some senators on this side of the chamber have been prepared to vote against the Government, but I have yet to see a member of the Opposition cross the floor to vote against a caucus decision. They are all too regimented to do that. Let us have no criticism until some members of the Opposition show the political moral courage required to vote against a caucus decision of their Party. Let them not criticise those on this side of the chamber who have from time to time shown that they have the courage to vote against the wishes of the Government when they believe an issue is at stake. An issue is at stake in this legislation but it is not an immediate issue; even if it is agreed to the vote cannot be granted until after the election on 2nd December. I again make my position clear: I will not support this legislation at this stage, but if my pressures and the pressures of those of my Party who also support the granting of the vote to 18-year- olds are not successfully heeded by the Government, then I for one am prepared to reconsider my position. 
I have always been intrigued by the arbitrary nature of age limits. At times I have wondered why the age of 21 has become a magical sort of age. I understand that at different periods of history people have assumed adult responsibilities at various ages. I believe that at one period in one civilisation - I am not sure whether it was the Greek or the Roman - girls assumed adult responsibilities at 14 and boys at 16. One viewpoint about the age of 21, which I think is supported, is that in British countries a person assumed adult responsibilities at the age of 21 because that was the age when young men were considered strong enough to bear arms. 
 That is, multiplication of 3 by 7? I do not deny  Senator Murphy's  viewpoint, yet I think there are many theories or viewpoints on why .the age of 21 was chosen as the age at which people assume adult responsibilities. The point 1 make,  Senator Murphy,  is that 21 is not a magical age. It may be that in times gone past a person of 18 was as physically and as mentally mature as a person of 21. That is the point I make, that there is nothing magical about the age of 21, or 20 or 19. There has to be some judgment. I understand from the history that the age was based upon some arbitrary ruling given at some time. I do not know whether it is because 3 multiplied by 7 makes 21 or whether it is for other reasons. The point I am trying to make is that it was based upon some ruling and there is nothing magical about it. 
 I do not know whether that is as magical as 3 times 7 which  Senator Murphy  mentioned. 1 suppose one could argue about two 9s making 18 just as one could argue about three 7s making 21. Different ages have  applied  throughout history. We find  in  our own country that there are now 2 States which have adopted 18 years as the minimum voting age. I understand that a third State is to make a similar decision. 1 regret that State governments have had to give the lead. I would have preferred to see the Commonwealth Government providing leadership. 
I noted that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  in reply to the second reading speech of the Leader of the Opposition, said that this matter deserved serious and objective study. I agree with him. I also suggest that there has been plenty of time to give serious and objective study to it.  Senator Withers  reminded us that in 1943, when he was a young man of 18 years serving in the Navy, he had the right to vote. Probably he is the only honourable senator in this place who has exercised a vote at the age of 18. I do not know whether he voted wisely on that occasion or whether he has become wiser since. It was believed during the war years that a man of 18 years who was old enough, in the view of the Government - I believe rightly so - to fight for his country was also old enough to vote. That decision having been made it seems to me to be a precedent which we cannot ignore. 
One can argue about whether youths today are  more  intellectual and physically mature  than  they were in past generations. I do not believe they are. I  do  not  believe  that  there  was anything wrong  with  the youth of past generations; nor do T believe that  there  is anything wrong with the youth of today. I do not believe that youths today are any better or any worse than those  of  earlier days. I become rather cross  when  I  hear  people say that the youth of today is better or worse  than  it was. Perhaps people think that the long haired, bare footed  and rather  shabby looking characters we see are representative of youth today. I do not believe that they are;  rather  I believe that those people are a minority. The flower people of the day  when  I was at school were represented by the fellows who wore very wide trousers. Each generation has had a section of youth which rebelled against society in various ways. I think that because of the mass media they now get more publicity and that probably attracts more attention to them. I do not believe that the people I refer to represent youth today. It may be argued, and possibly the argument can be sustained, that the youth of today have greater educational opportunities than did the youth of past generations. Therefore they may be more educationally mature, but it is debatable whether that qualifies them as being ahead of past generations when it comes to deciding how to vote. Apart from the greater opportunities for education that are available, I doubt that the youth of today are better or worse than the youth of past generations. 
What has happened, and is still happening in our community - I believe it to be unquestionable - is that today young people are accepting greater responsibilities at a far earlier age. We find this revealed in the participation by youth in many areas of public life. Many people of very immature age provide leadership  of  a high quality in youth groups and probably those people are far more developed than they were in the generation of  Senator Milliner  and following generations of people like myself. 
 I am not suggesting,  Senator Milliner,  that  your  generation was any worse than mine  or  that it was any better. 
 Probably  Senator Milliner  was belted more  than is the youth of today  and that is probably  why  he is as he is today.  I  believe  that youth today are showing a  greater participation in many areas  of  public  life. They are  showing greater willingness to accept responsibilities in many  areas of  public  life,  possibly because  they have had better  opportunities than did  youth  in  past  generations. In  the  business  and  commercial world  today  we find very  young men  occupying  very  senior executive positions. We often hear  that  men are too  old at 40 whereas in past  generations men were probably 55 or 60 years of age before achieving any great responsibility in the business or commercial world. Today men in their 20s and early 30s are holding very senior positions. People in all walks of life are accepting responsibility at a much younger age than did past generations. I believe that this is germane to this discussion. We only have to look back a few years to see that there has been this dramatic change in Australia and, indeed, throughout the world. If this change continues we can expect to find that people are accepting responsibilities at an even younger age in the future. 
There is another significant point to consider. Young people today go out and manage their own affairs at a very early age. They fly from the nest when they are 17 or 18 years of age and go into flats, in groups or singly, and accept the responsibility of looking after themselves. They accept social responsibilities as well. In the old days they stayed at home until they were well into their 20s. Today young people, whether male or female, leave home at an early age and look after themselves. There is also an increasing level of interest by young people in world affairs. Most certainly they have greater selfreliance. 
All these things suggest the view that I hold: Regardless of whether 21 years was the acceptable age in the past these factors, apart from others, indicate to me that people today are prepared, willing and capable of accepting responsibilities at a younger age. There is another factor that I want to mention briefly. It is all very well to criticise young people. We often hear them criticised and we often hear people say that they will not accept responsibility. That is not the view I take. The simple answer is that we cannot expect young people to accept responsibility unless they are given responsibility, and people must be confident that young people are capable of accepting responsibility. That is a point which we ought to bear in mind. Young people must realise and understand that the older generation or the generation before them has confidence in them. I think we will find that when they feel people have confidence in them they will accept responsibilities. In a few words these are many of the reasons why I sup port votes for 18-year-olds. I think we all have to ask ourselves a simple question. We can all play politics on this issue. We can all argue and no doubt some people can produce figures to show that 18-year- olds are more inclined to vote one way or another way. I do not think that we really know. 
Maybe, but I think we all have theories about that. I do not think that any of us can be certain. I do not think that gallup polls reveal with any certainty the way 18-year-olds vote or are likely to vote. But I do not think we should look at the situation in this way. I think that we, as a responsible people, should ask ourselves what is in the best interests of the Australian people and of the generations which are now growing up. If we believe that the best interests of Australia will be served by giving votes to people at whatever age it may be - in this case 18-year-olds - then I suggest this must be the criteria upon which we should make our judgments and decisions. Involved in this debate are amendments which have been moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I find that I cannot support paragraph (1) of the amendment. I find some attraction in paragraph (2). I find a good deal of attraction in paragraph (3). I find nothing to attract me in (4) or (5) which I think is the Queensland position where the polling hours are from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
 Yes, I am sorry. I recall that a fortnight ago  Senator Byrne  withdrew paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6). We are discussing only the first one. I find no attraction in it although I appreciate the point of view which is expressed. I suppose we can argue that the most democratic way of electing a parliament is by means of proportional representation. Bui I look at the fate of parliamentary government in many countries. I look at Europe where, because of various voting systems, there have been a multiplicity of parties and what has happened has been a great instability of government. Whether this has been because of the volatile nature of the people, or whatever the reason, there have been compromises and defeated governments and then groupings together again. This has been a continual process which has brought parliamentary government into disrepute. I cannot help but bear in mind that while one can argue that proportional representation will reflect public opinion and bring into the Parliament many varying views, I wonder whether stability of parliament and government is going to be effected. One has to weigh these considerations. In weighing these considerations I find myself unable to support this amendment. 
I must say towards the end of my speech that I was rather intrigued to hear  Senator McLaren,  who unfortunately is not in the chamber at the moment, advocate that the first past the post system of voting was the only democratic method. I am reminded that the Australian Labor Party in Western Australia has introduced legislation to bring into effect the first past the post system and also to abolish the Legislative Council which, I understand, is part of the Party's platform. I understand that the abolition of the Senate is part of the policy of the Australian Labor Party, although I do not think many Labor senators take that very seriously. At least, I hope they do not. But I come back to the point of first past the post being the only democratic method. I suppose it depends upon one's view of a democratic method. If 4 candidates were standing for election it would be mathematically possible for a candidate to be elected to Parliament on 25.1 per cent of the vote. I find it very difficult to accept the view that that person is the choice of the electorate. In fact, he is the choice of 25.1 per cent and he is opposed by 74.9 per cent. I find it is impossible to sustain this argument. I think that this is muddle-headed thinking. I do not believe that the first past the post system in the United Kingdom produces the result which is required in a democratic system. As I say, mathematically it is possible there for a person to be elected on 25.1 per cent of the vote. Even to be elected by 30 per cent or 33 per cent means the candidate is the choice of a minority only. Let me make it clear that there is no perfect system. We are not perfect ourselves. No perfect system prevails. But what we have to try to seek is a system that is as near perfect as possible and that reflects in every way as far as is possible public opinion. 
If our present system is not perfect then, as far as I am concerned, we should by all means seek a better system. But do not let us scrap the present system for a system such as that which in theory - and we cannot disregard theory - could place in power a government which represents 25 per cent, 25.1 per cent or 26 per cent of the electors and which could be opposed by 74.9 per cent, 76 per cent or 60 per cent of the electors. I do not find this argument appealing, logical or rational. I hope that I have made my position clear. I make no apologies for the attitude I adopt tonight in relation to this legislation because I have no wish at this stage to embarrass the Government. I shall continue to use my endeavours, and try to harness the endeavours of my colleagues who support votes for 18-year-olds, to convince the Government that it should introduce this legislation. Before I sit down I merely repeat that after a reasonable time if the Government has not introduced the vote for 18- year-olds then I shall reconsider my attitude. 
I rise for 2 reasons. One is the point of view expressed very forcefully by  Senator Devitt  that the Senate should not have made any decision on this matter last week because of the deliberations and investigations by a Senate committee. Noone has greater respect for Senate committees than I have, but his point of view is an impossible one. It would mean, in effect, that on every matter on which a Senate committee was deliberating the Senate should not or could not make any decision. In other words, the Senate would be morbid on a large area of national policy. This is a point of view that cannot be accepted. 
1 will listen to  Senator Devitt's  attitude to the vote for 18-year- olds. When he shows enough guts to cross the floor or criticise in this chamber the actions of his Caucus, or when any member of his Party does that, I will listen to him, but not one honourable senator opposite has ever had the courage to do it. That is a simple fact of life. I say to honourable senators opposite: Do not criticise an honourable senator on this side of the Senate who has, from time to time, criticised the actions of his Government and Government policy. I and others have on occasions voted on matters against the Government's wishes. But I have never seen an honourable senator of the Australian Labor Party vote against his Party. 

 So when the honourable senator practises what he preaches I will listen to him. To come back to the point I am making, we are just not yes men to obey an outside body. 
I am sorry that  Senator Devitt  has become very heated about the matter because there is nothing to be very heated about. The point is that the Senate is entitled at any time to express an opinion. I wonder what attitude members of the ALP would adopt if they were in government and if we adopted the same view. 
Hope springs eternal in the human breast; I wonder what attitude a Labor government would adopt if we said that the Labor government should not legislate or that the Senate should not express an opinion on a matter which was being investigated by a Senate committee. I do not believe this argument can be sustained. The second point I wish to make is a simple one.  Senator Wheeldon  challenged my colleague  Senator Young  on the attitude that the rural electors would take if he put to them the point of view he put tonight by way of an interjection in opposing this amendment. Let me assure  Senator Wheeldon  that nothing would please me more than to go out to the rural electors of Western Australia on a platform with him. I would advocate my view that the Federal Government should get out of the probate field as quickly as possible. He could advocate his view that the Federal Government should remain in the field to deal with probate. I know who would get the votes. It would not be  Senator Wheeldon.  If he were to accept this proposition, he could debate the issue with me in any of the country electorates. I know who would win. I am quite sure that if  Senator McLaren  wishes to go out with  Senator Young  amongst the rural electors of South Australia and justify his stand against the abolition of Federal estate duty and if  Senator Young  were to justify his stand I know who would get the votes, it would not be  Senator McLaren.  The honourable senator can shout his head off. Let him go out with  Senator Young  and speak with a forked tongue in South Australia. We will see who gets the votes; it will not be  Senator McLaren. 
I do not mind. The honourable senator can scream his head off as much as he likes. It does not make any difference to me, I do not believe the Senate can accept the argument that because committees are meeting and investigating we are not entitled to express an opinion. I reply to  Senator Wheeldon's  reply to  Senator Young's  interjection because I stand by my vote. It is not the first time that I have voted on this matter. I hope that it will be the last time because I hope that after the elections the Federal Government will take the steps which this Senate, with the exception of the ALP, wishes it to take. 
I wish to say a few words on this measure. I appreciate what the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has just said. 1 think that one of the problems that many of us have to face in regard to increased air navigation charges is the extent to which these charges in conjunction with other increased costs lead to increases in fares. The Minister said that in themselves they do not necessarily lead to increased costs, but that in conjunction with the various other costs that the airlines have to meet they lead to increased fares. I think that is one point which has to be taken into consideration. I welcome the Minister's statement that he will prepare what he called a 'basis of analysis' that separates the various cost elements in the airlines. I think that information would be very valuable to the Parliament. 
I rose really to ask the Minister whether it would be possible at some time to provide the Parliament with information as to the various cost elements involved in charges imposed in overseas countries. The Minister said that certain charges are imposed on airline operators in Australia and that in other countries a number of other charges, some of which are hidden charges, have to be met which overall may be greater than the charges the  airline  operators have to meet here. It is very difficult for us to have any basis on which to examine and determine exactly what these charges are. I am very conscious of the fact that our present charges per mile and our freight charges per ton mile are among the lowest in the world. Recently 1 beard the allegation made at a meeting that Australian airline fares are the highest in the world. I know of an airline which made a comparison over comparable mile routes in Europe, the United States of America and Asia which proved conclusively that Australian charges are far lower on any equivalent basis. If we were to have a breakdown of the various charges which overseas countries impose on airlines it would certainly be helpful to us and would enable us to come to some conclusion as to the basis of the Australian airline charges. I rose really to ask the Minister whether it would be possible to have such information. 
 I wish to raise a point with the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  concerning the subject raised by  Senator O'Byrne.  Over a period of time I asked the Minister's predecessors about the possibility of the Department of Civil Aviation providing its own meteorological services in the aviation field. I did so because of the complaint by many airline captains about the poor quality of the meteorological services provided. At that time I was interested mainly in the situation in the north west of Western Australia, where considerable delays were being occasioned by poor meteorological reports. I have also had complaints from airline captains who travel throughout the airline network of Australia as to the quality of the reports they have received causing delays and all sorts of problems. In view of the growth of aviation in Australia, has the Department given consideration to the providing of its own meteorological services? What is the Department's view of the wisdom of doing so? Has the Department made a comparison between what it would cost to provide such a service and the cost of the present service? 
 I direct my question to the Minis'.er for Civil Aviation and refer to a report that Qantas Airways Ltd has selected French vintage champagne for inflight service. Can the Minister inform me why the Australian international airline has selected French and not Australian wine - wine acknowledged by any standards to be of high quality? 
I  bring up the report and minutes of proceedings of Estimates Committee C on proposed expenditure for the year 1972-73. For the information of honourable senators I also table the Hansard report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
In accordance with the provision of paragraph 10(a) of the resolution appointing the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs I inform the Senate that, at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Committee has reported to him on the following reference: 
What is the most effective form of aid- bilateral or multilateral. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I am thoroughly confused. 1 think what has been put to us suggests that the Opposition does not know what it is talking about. Further on in clause 38(1.) there is a paragraph (k) which gives the Corporation various powers. I think that the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  will probably deal with that. I will not touch on it. What the Opposition does not understand is that the reserve price scheme can operate only under the auction system.  Senator Wilkinson  mentioned private buying. Private buying is direct negotiation between a wool grower and a buyer. They agree upon a price which satisfies the wool grower and the buyer. No reserve price scheme can operate under that system because the price is not known to anybody except the 2 people concerned, the buyer and the wool grower. If wool was sold by appraisement 
What would 'or otherwise' cover? It covers private buying and appraisement. What other method of selling wool is there? If wool is sold by appraisement, again it is sold by negotiation between the authority, whoever that may be, and the buyer. Therefore, the reserve price scheme does not cover that. The only system of buying that a reserve price scheme can cover is the auction system where wool is sold in public on the floor. If it does not reach a certain price the reserve price scheme operates. I see  Senator Milliner  shaking his head. With great respect to  Senator Milliner,  I do not think he would know goats hair from wool.  Senator Wilkinson  is a wool grower and I agree that he knows something about wool, but I think that he is confused on this point. The only system under which the reserve price scheme can operate today, as I understand it, is the. auction system. Therefore, the addition of the words 'or otherwise' does not cover anything; it is only adding words which have no meaning whatsoever. 
by leave - On 16th August, 1 informed the Senate of the progress which had been made by the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence into its current reference on Japan, and advised that, 'if at all possible', a full report would be presented during the present Parliamentary session. The Committee has recently reviewed the progress made on the drafting of the report - which, I am happy to say, is considerable - before deciding whether it could be brought to a stage which would do justice to the subject and be suitable for presentation. In view of the importance of the subject to Australia, we decided that a well considered report of some quality would be more desirable than one hastily concluded. I therefore inform the Senate that it is now not our intention to table the report during this present period of sittings, but that a report will be available for presentation when the Parliament next sits. 
My question is directed  to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I preface it by saying I understand that one of the matters of negotiation for a Vietnamese peace treaty is the reunification of Vietnam. I ask the Minister: Is he aware whether there are any provisions in the Vietnamese peace treaty providing for free elections in North Vietnam in conjunction with free elections in South Vietnam? If not, are we to assume that the Communist Government of North Vietnam believes in free elections only in non-communist countries? 
I wish to reply to  Senator Willesee.  I think he is under some misunderstanding about the position in relation to knitted shirts. At this stage the Government has not imposed either quantitative restrictions or import controls, but it is having discussions with the exporters of knitted shirts with a view to having them accept voluntary controls of imports into Australia. At this stage no decision has been reached. I might have argued on that point, but I am not doing so tonight. It is a bit different to the arbitrary system of import controls. 
Discussions between the Australian Government and various governments about voluntary restraint on imports of knitted shirts into Australia are being held. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
In the past I have expressed my regret that Customs Tariff Bills have been brought into the Senate in the dying moments of the session and that we have not been given the opportunity to discuss tariff policy in a way I believe it should be discussed in this chamber. Whatever way we care to look at it, tariff policy is a major determining factor in the development of the economic structure of Australia. It is a shame that, because of the pressure of time, the Senate for a long time has been deprived of the opportunity of discussing in full any in detail all the ramifications of tariff policy. 
Tonight I had hoped to develop this argument in some depth and detail but because of the time factor, I have reluctantly accepted that I must speak only briefly. As I said a few moments ago, tariff policy is a major determining factor in the development of the economic structure of Australia. It is no secret that I have been a critic over many years of the tariff policy that has been followed by the Government and now, I must say, by the Opposition. There was a time when I think I could say that  Senator O'Byrne  and I were in general agreement on tariff policy. 
 Well, I think at times we found ourselves agreeing. However, I will not criticise only the Opposition; I have a few minutes left to me to say something about Government policy. I have found that there has been a complete about turn in. the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to tariff policy over the years, and today I think it would be safe to say that I find myself completely opposed to the views that are being expressed. 
I was interested to read the views expressed over the years by the spokesman for the Labor Party in another place on tariff matters,  Dr J.  F. Cairns. Because of the time factor, I cannot quote in full a speech he made in 1967. The speech can be found in the House of Representatives Hansard of 21st September 1967 at pages 1212 and 1213.  Dr Cairns  expressed views which were clearly in line with the views that some of us on this side of the House, especially ex-Senator Bull and I, expressed.  Dr Cairns  in a recent speech accused the Tariff Board of engaging in a search and destroy mission among Australian industry. This was a complete about turn from the policy that he enunciated on behalf of the Labor Party in 1967 and 1968 and, indeed, even before that. I was rather interested to read the speech which 
I regarded  as  a farrago  of  economic nonsense. One can only wonder at the reason for the about turn in the attitude of the Labor Party. 
I was therefore interested to read articles in the 'National Times' of 4th September and 9th September written by  Mr P.  M. McGuinness. He referred to the speech by  Dr Cairns  which I have just mentioned and I think it is worth quoting a few of  Mr McGuinness'  remarks but only briefly because of the time factor. He referred to the accusation by  Dr Cairns  that the Tariff Board was engaging in a search and destroy mission amongst Australian industry and he wrote: 
This is, of course, pure nonsense, and could be dismissed as such were it not for the danger that  Dr Cairns  may, in the not too distant future have the opportunity to vent his ill-considered prejudices upon one of the few official bodies in Australia that has shown signs of having an active concern for the long-term economic welfare of Australia. 
 The article was written by  Mr P.  P. McGuinness and appeared in the 'National Times'. I think that the Tariff Board has had a proud record of protecting its independence over the years against what has been  at times extreme  pressure. In speeches many years ago, I referred to the courageous attitude of  Mr Rattigan,  who protected the independence of the Board against what he considered were references which were dictating to the Board the type of report that it should produce. 
I believe that we must clearly understand the influence of the Tariff Board upon Australia and Australian economic policy. It seems to me that many people do not understand that the reports of the Tariff Board have a great influence on the diversion of Australian resources, labour and capital into areas which make the greatest or the least contribution to our national growth. 
 I do not agree with  Senator Webster  that much of it is theoretical. I believe that the record of the Tariff Board over the years has been one of practical decisions. Its recommendations to the Government have been based upon sound economic principles which the Board has developed. It is the responsibility of the Government whether it accepts the Board's recommendations. I cannot agree with  Senator Webster  if he is questioning the record of the Tariff Board. I challenge anybody to dispute that the Tariff Board has made assessments and recommendations, in the last few years particularly, which were based upon sound economic principles. 
 One may argue  about  different industries, but I would  even  dispute that the Board was at fault  in the  case of the cherry industry.  One of the  great problems in Australia has been  the  diversion of resources into high cost  industries  which have proved not to be in  the  national interest. 
 If I had half an hour  I  could tell  Senator Webster  of a number  of  industries, including the motor industry. 
 I will come to television also, if I have enough time remaining  to  me. The policies which have been followed by the Government have placed a heavy burden on the community and, I believe, have been the cause of the lowering of  our  living standards. These policies have placed a heavy burden particularly on  those  industries least able to bear it. Uppermost in my mind, of course, are the primary industries. 
In a speech in 1967,  Sir Leslie  Melville, a former  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, referred to the fact that high protection was diverting resources into industries  with  the result that those industries capable  of  making a substantial contribution to Australia's national development were  being  starved  of  the essential resources of  both  capital and labour. 
 Despite the interjection by  Senator Webster,  I believe that tariff policy over many years has resulted  in a  distortion  of  Australia's  economic  structure. We have had a haphazard development  of  industry which has not been based upon rational economic thinking.  There has  been  a  desire to protect anything and everything. I refer again to the speech of  Dr  Cairns in  1967  when he  said -  I  do not quote  him exactly but I will make the  exact  quotation  if  any honourable senator  wants  it - that there is a desire to protect everything under the sun. I think that that  has  been  a  feature of Australian economic  policy  over some years. There has been  a craze  for economic self-sufficiency. The  thought  has been that any industry which wanted to establish itself was entitled to protection, regardless of the effect of that protection upon our national growth. 
I  believe that there has also been  a  reluctance to accept the realities of world  trade.  I have been interested over the years  in  what I would regard as double standards in Australia. Nobody has been more  critical  of other countries for the establishment of high trade barriers against the import of Australian products. There has been criticism, I believe justifiable criticism, against the European Economic Community because of its high trade barriers - not only tariff barriers but non-tariff barriers - against the import of Australian products. 
 I am glad that my friend,  Senator Webster,  agrees with me.  1  am interested to hear him say this. 
I will come to the  honourable  member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  in a moment if I may. There has been criticism  of  these non-tariff barriers which have been erected against Australian exports not only by the European Economic Community but also by Japan and other countries.  I  suggest that Australia has nothing to learn from the European Economic Community or Japan when it comes to the establishment of non-tariff barriers. No  country  is more sophisticated than is Australia in this area. At one time we used to refer to quantitative imports, but now we have a more sophisticated and perhaps less objectionable expression 'import control', but it means the same thing. I will mention  in  a few moments a couple of instances of this. I may also mention our by-law administration. I suggest that one of these  days  the Parliament has to have a very close look at our by-law administration. I have frequently sought from the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  a definition of 'suitable and equivalent' and I have yet to receive an answer which would indicate to me that there is any clearly defined rule regarding 'suitable and equivalent'. It is an arbitrary decision made on  the  moment rather than something that we in the Parliament can at least understand. 
In Australia we cannot avoid structural changes in industry. We are facing them in our primary industries and we have to face them in our manufacturing industries as well. Japan today is making tremendous structural changes in its industry to meet changing world trade conditions. Only a few days ago the Prime Minister of Japan,  Mr Tanaka,  acknowledged this and said that Japan must face up to this factor. The United States of America is facing and has faced up to structural changes. The United Kingdom has to face up to them. I think it is foolhardy for us in Australia to believe that we have not to face up to these structural changes. 
If you give me half an hour to speak I will suggest something, but I am really restricted tonight. I will have the greatest pleasure in the new Parliament in making a major speech in this area when I can spell out in some detail what I mean by structural changes. 
 I do not need help. We in Australia cannot be isolated from world wide competition. I mention  2  matters very briefly because of the time factor. I mention first the chain industry in Australia. The honourable member for Wakefield has long been a lone voice in his advocacy of tariff changes. But fortunately today he has some friends, including  Mr Maisey  of the Country Party and others. He spoke at some length in the other place on this matter. I do not wish to deal at length with this because of the time factor. May I just say that here is an industry on which the Tariff Board has made a number of reports from time to time. The Tariff Board has reported that certain sections of this industry have not been economic or efficient. I regret that the Government seems now to adopt the policy of circumventing Tariff Board recommendations. Despite the recommendation made on the Renolds chain industry the Government has imposed import licensing - this new sophisticated and apparently less objectionable term - on certain areas of the chain industry. Without going into the details, may I say that the result of this has been to increase the price of these chains to the Australian primary industries and to the Australian manufacturers of farm machinery such as Massey-Harris. Whereas the world trend is towards a lowering of price of these chains, the trend in Australia is to increase the price. One wonders how long we can tolerate this type of development. I turn very briefly to colour television. 
 I am glad to have .the support of my friend. If the reports - I only go on reports because I have no official information about this - are true, there is a suspicion that the Government will issue a directive to the Tariff Board about colour television. I have before me a number of articles on this subject and a letter which all senators have received from  Mr Cowan,  the General Manager of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. 
 If you like to read them you will be able to understand the summingup of all of them. What the letter is saying in effect is that we are faced with a situation in Australia where there is a limited market particularly for tubes. At the moment we have a tariff of $50 on a television set, plus 121 per cent on tubes and 45 per cent on the rest of the set. On 1969 statistics this amounted to an average of 108 per cent. This high protection was introduced on the basis of a very meagre report. It has been suggested in the reports that the tariff on colour television sets would be 45 per cent plus $125 and that the sales tax would be 27 per cent. In Canada, which is an equivalent country, the tariff is nil on imports from preferential countries and 15 per cent on imports from elsewhere, and there is 12i per cent federal sales tax plus any local tax. In the 
United Kingdom the tariff is nil on imports from preferential countries and 15 per cent on imports from elsewhere and the sales tax is 25 per cent. 
One of the matters to which  Mr Kelly  in another place and I have referred from time, to time is the protection of Australian industry which is uneconomic because it has insufficient throughput to have economic production.  Senator Obyrne  will remember that when we discussed this matter some time ago in relation to air cooled engines he and I agreed completely on this matter. That was 3, 4 or 5 years ago. It is admitted by the  Chairman  of Philips Industries Ltd that the economic production run of colour television tubes is about 1.5 million a year but the, Australian consumption of colour television sets would be about 400,000 to 500,000 a year. That is a pretty optimistic figure because one of the concerns is that because of the cost of these sets  -  a figure of $1,000 has been quoted, but I do not vouch for its accuracy - sales would be minimal in Australia because not many people can afford to pay $1,000 for a colour television set. They could be imported from the United Kingdom or Japan for about half that amount. The electronics industry is a fragmented industry, with a number of manufacturers. The companies in this industry, I might add, are wholly overseas owned companies. The Opposition talks about these companies owned wholly overseas. If we protected this Australian industry completely from any overseas competition the Australian producer would face, higher costs. For instance the terribly high cost of installing colour television equipment to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and to the commercial television stations would place in jeopardy the introduction of colour television in Australia. 
My only comment is that I am not averse to a full inquiry being conducted by the Tariff Board but  I  would take the greatest exception to any directive to the Tariff Board that this industry should be protected. I know it is argued that it is a defence industry. May I say that as I understand it - and  I  am only quoting from information I have - that a study was undertaken by the Department of Trade and Industry into the Australian electronics components industry, so described, and that inquiry described in one word the Australian market of that industry as a defence industry. The word was 'negligible'. I think that we have to be very careful when people claim that their industry is a defence industry. I could get into an argument but I will not because I must now conclude. We need to have a close look at the argument that an industry is a defence industry. If it is a defence industry, we must ask who should bear the cost of protecting that industry. Should it be the consumer or should it be our defence services through the defence vote? That is another argument and I will not enter into it now. 
I have made my viewpoints known but I regret that I have not been able to deal with this matter as deeply as I hoped to speak on it. It is my desire that, when the new Parliament meets, we will have the opportunity in its first session to devote time for a detailed debate on tariff policy to which contributions will be made from both sides of the Senate so that we may obtain a far better understanding of tariff policy than we have at the moment. Therefore, whilst I do not oppose the proposals before the Senate, I trust that we will have greater opportunity in the future to study tariff matters as deeply as they deserve to be studied. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into Japan. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. As the Government claims that the agreement with the People's Republic of China is similar to the Canadian formula, will the Government provide to the Parliament full details of the formulas for recognition of the People's Republic of China adopted by Canada, Japan, West Germany, Zaire, Malagasy, Jamaica and Chad? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. In view of the substantial and favourable trade relations which existed between Australia and Taiwan and of the possibility of further trading opportunities, particularly in iron ore, bauxite and foodstuffs, what action has the Government taken to protect Australian-Taiwanese trade? Has the Government noted that Japan and Taiwan and Canada and Taiwan have established trade missions at a high level? I ask further: What provisions have been made for Australians wishing to visit Taiwan to obtain visas? 
My question, which is addressed to the Special Minister of State, concerns a matter which was the subject of some comments last night by  Senator McManus  in a debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House, but I seek more specific information, ls the report correct that the Commonwealth Government advised a basketball association that it should cancel a proposed tour of Taiwan and visit Peking instead? If so, on what grounds did the Government intervene in the arrangements made between the sporting bodies of 2 countries? What was the basis of the Government's intervention? Why were members of a Taiwanese judo team refused permission to compete as a team in Australia but allowed to compete only as individuals? 
Will the Special Minister for State ascertain whether it is a fact that Canada has now displaced Australia as Taiwan's fourth biggest trading partner? Is the report correct that Canada is supplying Taiwan with a research nuclear reactor? 
Last Wednesday I asked the Special Minister of State the following question: 
As lbc Government claims that the agreement with the 'People1! Republic of China is similar to' the Canadian formula, win the Government provide to the Parliament full details of the formulas for recognition of the Peopled Republic of China adopted by Canada, Japan, West Germany; Zaire, Malagasy, Jamaica and Chad? . 
The Minister replied: 
They would be public documents. If the honourable senator cannot get them from the Parliamentary library, possibly I could assist him to get them. 
I did not ask that question for my own- information; I have been informed, I. asked the question for the information of the ' Parliament. I now ask the Minister: Will he lay on the table of the Senate the formulas for recognition of  the  People's Republic of China adopted by Canada, Japan, West Germany, Zaire, Malagasy,- Jamaica and Chad?  Senator WILLESEE  - Yes 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister, in the interests of 'open Government', cause to be tabled in the Senate the communications which passed between the Australian Ambassador in Paris and the Government during negotiations with the People's Republic of China. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
No. There are obviously limits to the kind of material which can be publicly released in the interests of 'open Government'. Communications relating to confidential negotiations between Australia and another Government fall outside those limits and would indeed be a breach of trust. 
The actual terms and conditions agreed to by Australia and China regarding mutual recognition and the establishment of diplomatic relations were fully set out in my statement of 22nd December 1972, and in the joint communique released at the same time. It would appear from the honourable senator's question that he believes there to be some secret agreements between Australia and China not mentioned in the joint, communique. It may be that the honourable senator has formed this belief as a result of recent articles in the 'West Australian' and other newspapers Which suggested that the Government was obliged to endorse Chinese positions on a number of international questions as the 'price' for the establishment of diplomatic relations. This suggestion is absolutely without foundation. The author of the articles appears to have taken a number of the Government's recent foreign policy decisions and to have assumed that each of them was the result of concessions given to the Chinese during the negotiations in Paris. There is no basis in fact for this assumption. The negotiations with China were confined narrowly to the question of recognition and diplomatic relations and to related questions associated with the status of Taiwan. Broader questions of foreign policy were not raised by either side. 
1 direct a question to the Special Minister of State. Does the Government consider the maintenance of trade with Taiwan to be important to Australia? Is the Government aware that Taiwan's rapidly growing free enterprise economy, whose foreign trade is far greater than that of the People's Republic of China, offers growing trade opportunities for Australia? Is the Government aware of the arrangements made by Japan, Canada and other nations which have recognised the People's Republic of China to retain trade, cultural and other ties with Taiwan? If the Government is not prepared to make similar arrangements will it explain why? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. In view of the Prime Minister's suggestion - that is putting it kindly - that the ownership of Taiwanese vessels visiting Australian ports could be subject to legal challenge by Peking, will the Government advise the Parliament as to the position of Taiwanese vessels visiting Japan, Canada and other nations with which Taiwan no longer has diplomatic relations? If Taiwanese vessels are able to enter the ports of these countries freely without the threat of legal challenge will the Government explain why the position in Australia is different? 
I direct a question to the Special Minister of State. I refer to an editorial in the 'People's Daily' the official journal of the Chinese Communist Party, as reported in English by the New China Newsagency dated, Peking, 24th December 1972. The editorial, hailing the establishment of diplomatic relations with Australia, reports: 
The Australian Labor Party Government has expressed its support to applying economic sanctions against the racialist and colonialist regimes of Rhodesia, South Africa and Portugal. 
Is this report correct? If not, has the Government protested to the People's Republic of China against the deliberate misrepresentation of Australian Government policy? 
 I am not quite sure what  Senator Milliner  was speaking about or why we are continuing to debate this motion because, if the Press reports are correct, the Government proposes to accept the fact that 4 weeks annual leave should be given to all public servants. When  Senator Milliner  says 'Our conscience is clear", we should be quite clear as to what the Government intends to do, whether or not the Press reports are correct.  If  they are correct, then there cannot be any question of conscience involved; but if they are not correct, then we will continue this debate until a decision is reached. I will be interested to know what the Government intends to do and why the Senate is not told what the Government intends to do about this matter. 
We have not been told. All sorts of half-baked statements have come forward, but no definitive statement has been made, if the Government intends to introduce a Bill, as is reported, to give 4 weeks annual leave to all public servants in accordance with  Mr Whitlam's  election promise, then there can be no further argument. Apparently, we are to continue to debate this matter. I do not take much notice of what  Senator Milliner  said because I could not understand what he was talking about, and I doubt whether he understood himself. He was chiding the Opposition by saying that we have always argued that we should accept the decision of an arbitrator. Well, we have argued that. He said that the fact that we will not accept the decision of an arbitrator today is a measure of the standard of the Opposition. I was interested to hear this because over the years we have argued for that proposition and I have never noticed the Australian Labor Party or the unions being prepared to accept the decision of an arbitrator when it has gone against them. They have promptly gone out on strike. 
If it is good enough for this principle of accepting an arbitrator's decision to apply to us. as  Senator Milliner  suggests it should, then it Ls good enough for it to apply to the Australian Labor Party and to all unions. Whether it is in relation to wages or working conditions or anything else, the arbitrator's decision is final and should be accepted, whether the unions like it or not. One cannot have it both ways. It is no good talking about conscience or anything else. When  Senator Milliner  and also  Senator Bishop  talked about the double standards of the Government, they meant the Opposition. But they spoke more in truth than they realised because in fact the double standards are now and always have been with the Australian Labor Party on most issues. While T accept the fact that it was a slip of the tongue, there was more truth in it than they were prepared to admit. 
We come back to what is the basis of the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood  and, as I understand it, what is accepted by the 3 Opposition parties, namely, that these determinations should be disallowed. We have to come back to this because I believe the first matter to be considered is what was promised in the Labor Party's policy speech. We are going to hear from honourable senators opposite ad nauseam: 'We have a mandate to introduce certain legislation because it was included in our policy speech'. I accept this in part, but not completely. If honourable senators opposite argue that they have a mandate to introduce all sorts of legislation because there was some vague reference to it in the policy speech, they have no right whatsoever to oppose this motion because in his policy speech  Mr Whitlam  said - it is clear, unequivocal and unqualified, and I do not think that anybody on the Government side will argue otherwise - that all Commonwealth employees would receive 4 weeks annual leave. 
It is in the policy speech, and we accept this. We are not opposed to the granting of 4 weeks annual leave to all Commonwealth public servants. On our side there may be some doubts as to the wisdom of this; there may be some doubts as to whether the economy can stand it. But it was a clear understanding by  Mr Whitlam.  We accept the right of the Government to introduce into this chamber legislation to amend the present legislation which provides for 3 weeks annual leave for all Commonwealth public servants, and we would not oppose it. Within a couple of days of 2nd December when the Australian Labor Party won office - to be precise, on 6th December -  Mr Cameron  confirmed that 4 weeks annual leave would be granted to Commonwealth public servants, but he then went on to state that it would apply only to those public servants who were members of registered organisations. This is where we part with the Government. 
We on this side of the chamber take no issue on the question that people should join unions. It is in their interests to join unions. They should be members of unions and they should not be discriminated against because they are members of unions. We accept this policy. We also accept the right of any individual, for whatever reason he may have, not to join a union. This is his individual decision, his individual right. It is indeed strange to hear from the Labor Party that people should be discriminated against because - and it is in the Labor Party platform - they are not members of unions. We have heard in this chamber ad nauseam the Labor Party advocating the right of dissent, the right of people to disobey a law which they do not like, the right of conscience. Now that members of the Labor Party are in government they cannot deny that a person has a right of dissent and a right to disobey a law either because he does not like it- 
 Senator Poyser  knows very well what I am talking about. He might be pretty dumb, but he is not as dumb as all that. He knows what 1 am talking about, and I will not be led astray by him. Honourable senators opposite have advocated that if a person does not like a law he has the right to disobey it. 
I direct a question to the Special Minister of State. Did the Minister note the comment in the editorial that has already been referred to in the 'Bangkok Post' that Hanoi is providing material as well as moral support for the insurgents in Thailand? Does the Government agree that this is interference with the internal affairs of Thailand? If so, will the Government advise Hanoi that, in the interests of peace and stability in the region, it should immediately cease interfering with the internal affairs of another country? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government any evidence that North Vietnam and other communist countries are interfering in the internal affairs of Thailand and other South East Asian countries? If so, will the Government make the strongest representations to the countries concerned that in the interests of peace and stability in the region they should immediately cease their interference? 
 My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. As the Minister, a Western Australian, is Minister assisting the Prime Minister, am I to believe from his reply to my previous question that he is unaware of the letter from the Premier of Western Australia or that he is unaware of what decision has been made on the request by the Premier and that he does not know when the decision, if any, is to be conveyed to the Premier? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Has the Prime Minister received a letter from the Premier of Western Australia concerning the adverse effect the present currency situation is having on the Western Australian economy? As the letter is reported to have been sent some 3 weeks ago, has the Government yet considered the case presented by the Western Australian Premier? When can the Premier of Western Australia expect the courtesy of a reply from the Prime Minister? 
My question, which I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows upon the question asked by  Senator Withers  and the so-called answer to it. Is. the Government opposed to atmospheric tests of nuclear weapons as a matter of principle or because of the likely effect on Australia or the region in which we live, without regard to the effect of nuclear explosions in other countries? Does the Government apply different moral standards or principles for communist countries? Will the Government be prepared to adopt the same standards of morality towards China as towards France? 
In directing a question to the Special Minister of State, I refer to a question I asked last Thursday, which the Minister evaded, concerning the support by communist countries of insurgency in South East Asia. Is the Government aware of complaints by Thailand that North Vietnam is providing material and moral support for insurgents in Thailand? Is the Government aware that the voice of the Malayan revolution radio, located in southern China, is broadcasting  to  Malaysia? Does the Government believe that the support of insurgency in Thailand and Malaysia by the People's Republic of China and North Vietnam serves the interests of peace and stability in the region? As the Prime Minister has given gratuitous advice to Thailand, will he now give advice to China and North Vietnam that in the interests of peace and stability and in support of the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries, they  should  mind their own business? 
 I am not very concerned with paragraph 2 of the motion except to say that we are entitled to take note of the statements which have been made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard),  by  Mr Hawke  who warned the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that he had to take note of the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party and by men such as  Mr Hartley  and  Mr Crawford  who are very prominent in the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Government's opposition to the atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons based on principle? If so, why does not the Government apply the same principle to China as to France and be prepared to take the same legal action against China as has been threatened against France? Does the Minister agree with the 
Prime Minister that the reason the Government cannot take legal action against China is that we are not discernibly affected? I leave aside the validity of that argument for a moment. Does he agree that many of Australia's friends are affected by China's testing of nuclear weapons and deserve support, or is it a case, as suggested in a newspaper editorial, of let them fry with Chou En-Iai? 
asked the Minister represent ing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister received a letter from the Premier  of  Western Australia concerning the adverse effects which the present currency situation is having on that State's economy. 
Was the letter sent some 3 weeks ago; if so, has the Government yet considered the case presented by the Premier of Western Australia. 
When can the Premier of Western Australia expect the courtesy of a reply from the Prime Minister. 

 Senator MURPHY- The Prime Minister has supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) A telegram about the international currency situation from the Premier of Western Australia was received in my office on 16th February. In my absence overseas during the following week, the Acting Prime Minister replied to the Premier on 23rd February. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the report that the Commonwealth Government advised the Basketball Association that they should cancel a proposed tour and instead visit Peking, correct; if so, on what grounds did the Government intervene in arrangements between sporting bodies of the two countries, 
What is the basis of the Government's intervention? 
Why was a Taiwanese judo team refused permission to compete as a team when in Australia, and allowed to compete only as individuals? 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) See answer to Senate Question No. 18 (Hansard of. 13 March 1973). 
See answer to Senate Question No. 3 (Hansard of 13 March 1973). 
As the Attorney-General has now stated that he found information at the Canberra regional office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which was disturbing and which led him to believe that further information was required, and in view of the fact that the Attorney-General has admitted that no information was being withheld, why did he not seek the co-operation of the Director-General of ASIO in obtaining further information instead of engaging in activities reminiscent of James Bond? 
My question is addressed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate and Special Minister of State. The Minister will recall replying to a question a week or two ago concerning the unprecedented attack on the Australian Prime Minister by a Thai newspaper in response to the statements by the Prime Minister that appeared in 'Newsweek'. The Minister replied that he did not believe that Australian-Thai relations had been affected, or words to that effect. In view of the strong attack on the Australian Prime Minister by the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Thailand. I ask: Does the Minister still believe that Australia-Thai relations have not been seriously damaged by the Prime Minister's statements? 
I ask the Attorney-General: What persons have access to the files of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, other than ASIO personnel? If no other person has access to ASIO files, from whom was he preserving information contained in the files which were seized and sealed by Commonwealth Police on his orders? 
I believe it is a shame that an opportunity was lost to present to this Senate and to the Parliament a reasoned, logical and restrained statement on terrorism. This could have been a valuable statement which could have produced information for the judgment of Parliament. Instead we were presented with a highly political statement which was used for an almost vicious personal attack upon the former Attorney-General.  Senator Murphy  in making this statement destroyed any value that it could have had. Why he had to vent what can only be regarded as his spite upon  Senator Greenwood  in a statement such as this one can only guess. But the situation now is that the accuser is the accused. I will not speak at length on this statement for it has been dealt with, and dealt with adequately. But it is worth saying that one of the strongest attacks on  Senator Greenwood  was that he was a protector of terrorism. 
An active protector. Thank you,  Senator Wright.  I can only say that this in itself, had it been true, would have been a most damaging allegation. But the record that  Senator Murphy  chose to ignore and the record that  Senator Greenwood  put right yesterday shows just the contrary. Why  Senator Murphy  was not prepared to table those documents which prove the contrary is one of the reasons why he is now the accused. I could well read some of the documents which were tabled by  Senator Greenwood,  but I say that they show his great concern at the allegations of terrorism. A departmental minute from the Secretary of his then Department in, I think, September last year, in three or four paragraphs expressed the then Minister's great concern at the lack of co-operation between the various police agencies and between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and for the calling of a conference to bring about closer liaison between them.  His  great concern was that the Commonwealth Police and Commonwealth agencies were not doing enough, that it was being left to the State police. All this is now on record and  Senator Murphy's  charge falls where it deserves to fall, to the ground in shambles because of his dishonesty in not producing all relevant documents - and no-one can argue that the documents tabled last night by  Senator Greenwood  were not relevant documents. 
Having said that, let me make a clear statement, if it need be made. We on this side of the House are opposed to terrorism whether it comes from the right or from the left. We make no difference in our opposition to it: it is contrary to our way of life. 
-Well, let us look at the record about violence. I will not be misled tonight about this, but at some other time let us look to see where violence was encouraged. It did not come from the right, it came from the left. If honourable senators want me to give one example, I will do so. Last year a bomb was placed in the offices of the Department of Labour and National Service in Perth - a dangerous bomb. It was not placed by the right wing terrorists; it was placed there by a couple of left wing terrorists who belonged to Unit 10 of the National Liberation Movement. The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  made a statement recently that all the terrorism of recent times has come from the right. He forgot about this particular incident. Perhaps  Senator Murphy  will tell the Senate what the Commonwealth Police force is doing, what instructions he has delivered to the Commonwealth Police to trace one of these young left wing terrorists who recently did not appear in court and who had absconded from bail. The other fellow was, fortunately, sentenced to 5 years imprisonment. Do not let us talk about terrorism from the right; there has been plenty of terrorism and violence from the left. The other matter which concerns us is the statement by the Prime Minister that the previous Government had lied. It is inconceivable that the Prime Minister was not aware of one of the documents tabled by  Senator Greenwood,  a document from which  Senator Greenwood  read last night, a document, which was presented to him partly in answer to the aide memoire from the Yugoslav Government. It came from the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police and was dated 19th October last year. The Commissioner of Commonwealth Police referred to the allegations and to the investigations and finished by saying: 
All such allegations have been scrupulously investigated but to date no viable evidence at all has been uncovered to support the contention that Croatian terrorists have been trained in Australia. 
This was a statement by the Commonwealth Commissioner of Police, and on that basis the next day a reply was forwarded to the Yugoslav Government. Who lied? I say it is inconceivable, or one would think it was inconceivable, that the Prime Minister was not aware of this report. Maybe he was not, because the Parliament was not told about it and was not aware of it. Perhaps the Prime Minister was not aware of it. All I say now is: Who has lied? It was not the previous Australian Government. This was an inexcusable allegation by the Prime Minister. 
I now turn to the question of so-called Croatian terrorism which I think is of greater importance. Allegations have been made and answered. But what is a matter of great concern is this question of  Senator Murphy's  antics towards the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. We have continued to ask questions of  Senator Murphy  to which, if we received any replies at all, we received evasive replies. We are yet to learn why, in the dead of night, he got the RegionalDirector of ASIO out of bed and made him come to his office to search for documents. However he did it does not matter. It was in the dead of night.  Senator Murphy  said that he was not aware of any precise documents before going to the regional office. Why did he go there? He has not yet told us why he went there. But he has told us that when he got there he found a document that was most disturbing. Under continued and repeated questioning, we were then told that this document referred to matters of the greatest importance to our national security. It was a document which was so disturbing that he then had to take further action. 
We asked where that document was and we were not told. But, funnily enough, the Financial Review' seemed to find out what that document was. The Parliament had not been told, but the 'Financial Review' said that it was an inter-departmental document which, it is alleged, was to the effect that the present Government was to be given no more information than the previous Government. 
Yes. I must admit that it is unusual for them to be absent under these circumstances but it does not worry me. I suppose that they are so dejected now that they are hiding away in their offices. So it appears that it was an inter-departmental document. From being a document of great concern to our national security, it became a document that disturbed  Senator Murphy  because he felt that he was not getting sufficient information. We heard then all sorts of allegations against senior departmental officers and all sorts of inquiries that were being put in train. But as I understand what the Prime Minister said in another place today, he is back pedalling so fast- 
Yes, we are back to conspiracies. But honourable senators opposite live with a conspiratorial syndrome. So they should know all about it. The Prime Minister is back peddling so fast that he nearly shot himself out the back of the House of Representatives chamber. What he has said today is that there are no senior departmental officers involved but that some officer of ASIO was either not objective enough or had misinterpreted remarks when he put them down on paper. This great conspiracy that so concerned  Senator Murphy  now turns out to be some misunderstanding or misinterpretation of what was said. It is this document we are now led to believe that led  Senator Murphy  to do this James Bond act accompanied by some 27 or 30 Commonwealth police who raided the Melbourne office of ASIO. 
It was rather interesting when the Prime Minister was asked why did not  Senator Murphy  ring up the Director-General of ASIO and tell him he was disturbed. He is a man who  Senator Murphy  has admitted he trusts. He has no reason to distrust him. Why did not  Senator Murphy  ring him and say that he was disturbed about this document, that he would come down tomorrow to discuss the matter with the Director-General to find out whether there were any further documents, where the original may be and so on? The Prime Minister replied: 'You ask him'. He was not prepared to say why. I think that the Prime Minister put his nose to the breeze and started to smell something because he said at his Press conference: 'You ask him'. We have asked him and we still have not found out why he did not ring the Director-General of ASIO. Why did not he go about this matter in a normal, civilised manner? Why did all this hysteria and theatricals take place? Why did he have 27 Commonwealth police officers seize and seal the files if he trusted the Director-General of ASIO? He admitted in reply to a question by  Senator Greenwood  that ASIO was not withholding any information. But later on, when he was pressed further he made a curious statement. According to page 740 of Hansard, in answer to a question asked by  Senator Byrne,  he said: 
I am satisfied that, although information was not being refused to me, I was not being given the information that I ought to have been given. 
How would he know? What does he mean by this? He was never refused information. If he asked for it, on his own admission, he was receiving it. Then he made this curious statement that he was not getting the information he ought to have been getting. This seems to me to be the statement of a man. who is being pressed into a corner. He does not know how he will get out of it. On his own admission, he only had to ask the Director-General and he would have received any further information that he sought. This whole thing becomes a greater and greater mystery. I suppose that it was conceived in a moment of mass hysteria which was being built up in Australia over the visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister. 
Having made this raid, having seized and sealed these documents, the next question arises: From whom was he preserving them?  Senator Murphy  said - he has been remarkably vague about this as well . he may be - that he has been preserving them for himself. But from whom? He trusted ASIO. He had received all the information he had requested from that organisation. Yet he sent 27 or 30 Commonwealth police officers - whatever might have been the case - to the ASIO offices. It might have been a little like the story of Tom Mix. I suppose that they came galloping down the street on their horses to raid the offices. Nevertheless, he sent these officers in to seize and seal the documents.  I  asked the Attorney-General: Who other than ASIO personnel have access to ASIO files? I received a long reply which did not answer the question. I wanted to know whether any other officers, whether they be from the Commonwealth Police or anybody at all, had access to these files. I take it from the answer that no personnel has access to them but ASIO officials. So we come back to the point that he trusted ASIO. He has been given all the help he requested but yet he had to walk in or rush in, whatever may have been the case, accompanied by all these police officers to seize and seal the files. 
My attention has been drawn to that fact. 1 am rather sympathetic towards them because probably they are sitting in their offices in a very dejected manner because all the spirit has gone out of them. 
It is a matter of courtesy. That there must be a Minister in charge of the Senate is a long tradition. But now we have hillbilly government we can expect this sort of thing. So without going back and traversing all the ground that has been traversed 
When we formed the Government, we had Ministers in the Senate chamber when Cabinet meetings were being held. I do not care whether they are here or not. I do not want to traverse the ground that has been traversed previously. These points are worth raising because they are of vital importance to the debate. They are matters about which we should be told. There can be no question that the credibility of ASIO has been destroyed.  Senator Murphy  either did it deliberately, which I do not allege, or without thought and in an irresponsible manner. If he did act in such a manner, he deserves the severe censure of the Senate. 
This country has prided itself through the years that a person was safe in his home and that he would not be faced with the dreaded knock on the door at night. This has been the totalitarian way of life which many people have come to this country to escape. Today they are fearful because for the first time people cannot feel safe at night. There is the fear of a dreaded knock at the door. 
 Senator McLaren  has a onetrack mind. I am talking about the dreaded knock on the door at night. 
I am making my speech. I do not require your help. Dozens of police have searched homes. I am not protecting the wrongdoers, but there are ways to conduct searches. These raids strike fear into the hearts of people who came to this country to avoid raids at night. I believe that the trend is a dangerous one and one at which we should look. Proposals are being bandied around by the Attorney-General for the development of a new type of police force under ministerial control. In other words, for the first time this country would have a police force under ministerial control. 
 -I am absolutely amazed to hear  Senator Georges  say that, because one of the most powerful ministries in totalitarian countries is the Ministry for the Interior. Governments which take over- 
 United front governments with some communist members. The communists always demand the Ministry for the Interior because it controls the police. 
He was head of the secret police, I understand. He would know all about it. 1 hope that Parliament will strongly oppose, and oppose to the end, that development that coupled with the dreaded knock on the door at night, will instil into the minds of people that this country is developing a new system - a police force which is controlled by a Minister and which does his bidding. I believe that all of us should fear and should resist that. 
The extraordinary thing about the situation is that the Attorney-General did not discuss his actions with the Prime Minister. He did not discuss them with anyone. He tried to get a VIP aircraft at 6 a.m. to rush off to Melbourne. One was not available, so he boarded the first aircraft, rushed down to meet his posse of police and carried out the raid. If these matters were of such great national importance and if the security of Australia were at stake, one would have thought that any responsible Minister would have discussed the matter on the telephone, at 2 a.m. or 3 a.m., with the Prime Minister. One would have thought that prior to going to a regional office of ASIO to search for something - he did not know what, so he told us - he would have discussed the matter with the Prime Minister. One would have thought that that would have been the course that any responsible Minister would have followed. No wonder the Prime Minister seems to be supporting the Attorney-General at one moment and running away from him at the next moment. I am quite sure that the Prime Minister does not know what happened. That is his responsibility. By condoning the visit he accepts equal responsibility with  Senator Murphy.  What I have said leads me to the view that  Senator Murphy  has acted in a reckless and irresponsible manner. He has misled the Senate knowingly because he knew that documents were available. Because of his actions he deserves the severe censure of the Parliament. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Withers. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  -  Senator Webster  is next on the list. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the continual barrage of highly critical statements emanating from the Australian Ambassador designate to the People's Republic of China,  Dr Fitzgerald.  I ask the Minister: When will the Government issue instructions to  Dr Fitzgerald  that diplo mats should- confine themselves to the carrying out of their diplomatic duties and not engage in political controversy? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. Did the Australian Government discuss with the Yugoslav Prime Minister the circumstances of those who allegedly took part in the so-called Bosnian incursion of June  1972  and their subsequent fate? If so, what information did the Yugoslav Government provide on this matter? 
I was delighted to support the motion that  Senator Wheeldon  should be granted an extension of time to enable him to speak for half an hour. I believe that for those listening and for those who will read this speech that is the best thing that could have happened because he disclosed - as he always does when he speaks on this subject - his true thoughts. I shall say only 3 things, because most of his speech deserves to be ignored and will be ignored. The People's Revolutionary Government was never recognised as a government at the Vietnam peace talks by the United States of America.  Senator Wheeldon  used the word 'government' and I say that it was never recognised as a government. The second point is that the honourable senator trotted out the Geneva Convention. I do not want to get into a debate today although I will be happy to debate at any time who breached the Geneva Convention first. 
All right, the Geneva Agreement.  Senator Wheeldon  mentioned free elections in 1956. From 1954 to 1956 hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people voted with their feet by marching out of North Vietnam because they did not wish to live under communism. From 1954 to 1956 there was a purge in North Vietnam during which hundreds of thousands of people were murdered and tortured. My authority for that is General Giap, the Minister for Defence. He said it went too far and that too many innocent people were executed. He was not against the purge.  Senator Wheeldon  stands up and says that during that period we should have had free elections. In view of the purge, would anybody in North Vietnam who had the right to vote have been able to vote freely? Of course he would not and  Senator Wheeldon  knows that. 
Let us come back to this motion. We know that the delegation from North Vietnam and the Vietcong is visiting Australia at the official invitation of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and some phoney peace group. We will soon prove that the group is phoney because it is not a peace group at all. Look at the situation which these people represent today, leaving aside for the moment South Vietnam and Laos. Let us examine Cambodia. This group is supposed to be interested in peace. If it is interested in peace, why does it not stop the acts of blatant aggression against Cambodia by the North Vietnamese? Some people argue, quite falsely, that the war in Vietnam is some sort of simple, civil war. But the war in Cambodia is not a civil war. It is a war of naked, blatant military aggression by North Vietnam. My authority for that is none other than the Honourable Gordon Bryant who, I think in 1970-  Senator Young  was on the delegation - was so upset that he sent a cable to the Australian  Labor  Party accusing the North Vietnamese  of  committing an act of military aggression against Cambodia. 
Minister at the present time. 
He is now a Minister. So there can be no argument on behalf of the Labor Party that this is a civil war. It is nothing more than a war of naked, blatant aggression. I should have thought that  Dr Cairns  and this phoney peace group, if they were interested in preventing the maiming and killing of people by North Vietnamese troops and those supporting them, would regard the present situation as a matter of grave concern. But no, there is not one word of condemnation of North Vietnam by  Dr Cairns;  not one word of condemnation of the indiscriminate shelling of villages, and of the capital itself, and the killing of the innocent civilians. There was not one word of condemnation by  Senator Wheeldon,  whose blood pressure reached dangerous levels when he was describing the situation in Hanoi and Haiphong, of the indiscriminate shelling, mortaring, killing and maiming of innocent people in Cambodia. 
Or Laos, if the honourable senator wishes to speak about that country.  Senator Wheeldon  spoke about Hanoi and Haiphong. Did he go to South Vietnam to see the results of the indiscriminate shelling and mortaring by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong of villages and towns as well as hospitals? No, the honourable senator did not say one word of condemnation. 
If ever the double standards and hypocrisy of the Labor Party were exposed, they are being exposed today. As I have said, there has been no condemnation by honourable senators opposite of what is taking place in Cambodia. What is more important, there has been no condemnation by  Dr Cairns  or by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  whose silence on this matter compared with his verbosity on most issues is both monumental and significant. Has the Government protested to North Vietnam about the continued presence of North Vietnamese troops in Cambodia and the supplying of arms and materials to various communist groups in Cambodia? Again, there has not been one word. Has the Government protested about the situation in Phnom Penh where the people of that city were on the verge of starvation and where the communists were blockading the river and all other supply routes? We have not heard one word of condemnation from the Government. Therefore we must surely believe that here is a double standard. Here we are entertaining people whose country, on the admission of a leading member of the Labor Party, is unashamedly engaged in an act of naked, blatant military aggression against the small country of Cambodia. The policy of the Government is to establish relations with North Vietnam and to provide massive aid to enable that country to carry out further acts of aggression, presumably against Cambodia. There may be arguments that in dme diplomatic relations will be established with North Vietnam. But there can be no argument for establishing relations with a government which claims to stand for peace and decency and which continues to commit acts of aggression against the small harmless country of Cambodia. 
The Honourable Gordon Bryant, who is a colleague of the honourable senator, will tell him. He has already told the Labor Party how it commenced. The plain facts are that  Dr Cairns  directly, and  Mr Whitlam  and the Labor Party indirectly, are not supporters of peace today; they are supporters of aggression. 
It may be argued that  Dr Cairns  can act and say things privately, and that these can be distinguished from his ministerial responsibilities as a member of a government. I suggest that it is naive to believe that Ministers can make statements and perform actions which do not involve their government. Honourable senators will remember the crude vulgarity of the attacks which were made on the United States of America by 3 Ministers, one of whom was  Dr Cairns.  Those attacks were interpreted everywhere as being the policy or reflecting the views of the Australian Government. 
Well, I would have  beer  more impressed with their sincerity had they ; protested also to North Vietnam at the indiscriminate shelling and mortaring of South Vietnamese villages by the North Vietnamese. But we did not hear one word about the indiscriminate murdering and shelling of the people of Saigon. The very fact that  Dr Cairns,  presence and welcome to these groups was not challenged by the Prime Minister, gives us the right to assume that if the Prime Minister does not agree then he does not disagree with what  Dr Cairns  is doing. If that is so, then the Australian Government at least gives its tacit support to the actions of North Vietnam. 
Let us examine the actions of North Vietnam since the ceasefire. Even  Dr Kissinger,  who seemed at one stage to be bemused by and believed the North Vietnamese, is now losing his patience and has threatened that the United States will have to take action. The North Vietnamese Government has persisted with a continued cynical and systematic violation of the ceasefire agreement. Once again the Ho Chi Minh trail has become the centre of a huge movement of personnel, arms and supplies of all kinds to reinforce an estimated  160,000  to  170,000  North Vietnamese troops in South Vietnam. Does the Labo:r Party believe that these personnel and supplies, military and otherwise, are being sent to South Vietnam to maintain peace? If not, what are they for? The North Vietnamese have made clear their objective. Their aim is to win control of Indo-China.  Senator Wheeldon  today applauded this objective. He believes that it is only right that they should take this action. The North Vietnamese intend to achieve their aims not by approval or by whatever democratic means are available but by military force. Apparently  Senator Wheeldon  approves this action. Indeed, he said that he was proud to be associated with them; proud to be associated with a country which is murdering Laotians and Cambodians. Whatever might have been argued about Vietnam, the same arguments do not apply to Laos and Cambodia. 
Nothing has been said or done by the Australian Government since the ceasefire to protest to North Vietnam. Nothing has been said or done by the North Vietnamese to indicate any weakening of their resolve. The continued aggression in Cambodia assumes sinister significance because one of the aims of North Vietnam is to reopen the port of Kompong 
Som which is a vital link in that country's effort to resupply its troops in the south of South Vietnam. Does that indicate peaceful intentions? The North Vietnamese - this is the real purpose of their visit to Australia - seek international support for their ' Objectives. They wish to weaken support for the Government of South Vietnam and for the United States. The sole purpose of the visit of the North Vietnamese, and the sole purpose of their sponsors, is to win once again in the psychological warfare in which they are so skilled. The sponsors of the visit are supporting military action that has resulted and will result in the death and destruction of thousands of innocent people. I know that the psychological warfare program adopted by the North Vietnamese has been very successful and that many decent people have fallen for their lies and deceit. 
We have been told that  Dr Cairns  has proposed that we recognise the Vietcong and that  Senator Wheeldon  supports the recognition by Australia of the Vietcong.  Senator Willesee  said yesterday that there is no intention of the Government recognising the Vietcong at the present time. I remember that when  Dr Cairns  proposed the recognition of North Vietnam  Mr Whitlam  denied that the Government had any intention of doing this. He said that it was going too far but that we might well send a representative there so that we could work out and organise an aid program. Within a matter of days  Mr Whitlam  announced that the Australian Government intended to recognise North Vietnam. So what  Dr Cairns  says today,  Mr Whitlam  accepts tomorrow. There was a suggestion that  President  Thieu might visit Australia. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.40 to 8 p.m. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. What proportion of the world's population and potential for agricultural production is under communist control? What figures are available from both Russia and the People's Republic of China on current stock piles of feed and fibre and projections of current cropping results? Does the Minister think, in view of the military situation in Russia and China, that either Russia or China is likely to disclose any reliable figures on current agricultural stockpiles or production? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the refusal of the Australian Wheat Board to permit cattle lotfeeders, chicken meat producers and pig breeders to procure wheat growing properties and grow their own stock feed wheat requirements? Is the Minster aware that this dog-in- the-manger attitude by the Board is a complete reversal of policy adopted last year and can only aggravate the current meat situation? As these stock feeders are asking neither for first advance payments of 120c per bushel nor the allocation of delivery quota at the expense of traditional wheat growers, will the Minister, in the interests of fostering the only effective long-term solution to the current meat crisis, endeavour to persuade the Australian Wheat Board to adopt a more realistic attitude and revert to its 1972 policy? Finally, will the Minister treat an examination of this situation as urgent as time is running out for these wheat and meat producers if they are to make an effective contribution to wheat and meat supplies this year? 
First of all I wish to pay a tribute to the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for their hard work and co-operation during what I think was a unique inquiry. I believe that this was the first time that any parliamentary committee in the world had studied one country. To that extent this is a unique report. I think everyone has been very delighted at the response the report has received.  Senator Maunsell  has just made reference to the fact that the report has received wide commendation not only in Australia but also overseas. 
I would be very remiss in my duties if 1 were not to pay a very great tribute to the members of the Committee's secretariat,  Mr Arthur  Higgins and  Mr Livermore,  who were responsible for so much of the preparation of the report and the organisation of the Committee's functions. They did a first class job and are to be greatly commended for their dedication. I wish to refer also to the assistance given to the Committee by  Mr David  Sissons of the Australian National University, who is an expert on Japan.  His  services were made available to the Committee by the ViceChancellor of the Australian National University,  Sir John  Crawford.  Mr Sissons  did an outstanding job. As a Japanese linguist he was able to translate documents from Japanese journals and newspapers for the Committee.  His  advice and assistance at all times played a very large part in the Committee's work. 1 think that the recommendations and conclusions contained in the Committee's report have been well covered already by  Senator Carrick.  1 do not wish to go over all of them again. 1 wish to make reference only to one important matter, that is, the proposal by the Japanese for a treaty of friendship, commerce and navigation. That proposal has been put forward since about 1955. It was brought to the Committee's attention very early in its inquiries. The Committee received a great deal of evidence on the pros and cons of the proposal. It finally came down with a quite firm decision that Australia should not agree to enter into such a treaty. The Committee did so for a large number of reasons. One was the rather complex constitutional position in Australia. Another was that the Committee was of the opinion that Australia must be careful not to give an indication to the less developed nations of South East Asia that it is treating Japan in a different manner from that in which it is treating them. That is most important because there still exists throughout South East Asia some concern about Japan. Some of that concern is a legacy of World War 11. There are also some suspicions about Japan's future intentions. Our relations with other countries in South East Asia would not be improved if they thought that we were treating Japan in some very special manner and if we were to give the indication that there is in existence a rich man's club. Those are 1 or 2 of the reasons why the Committee did not favour the proposed treaty. The Committee did receive some very good evidence concerning entering into a lesser type of treaty arrangement. The Committee found itself in favour of doing that. At page 68 of its report the Committee has made reference to this matter. 
I think it would be a good idea if the debate on this report were to be concluded today. As the time allotted for its consideration today has almost expired. I am not in a position to deal with the report at as great a length as I had intended to do. I will conclude my remarks by once again thanking all the members of the Committee for their help, co-operation and understanding and the witnesses for their assistance, and by saying that the transcript of evidence of this inquiry is probably the most valuable document available on Japan. It contains a wealth of information that is being given very wide use in academic circles. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister for State. Is  Mr Lie,  the Finance Minister of Taiwan, visiting Australia to attend a meeting of the Pacific Basin Economic Council? If not, has the Government placed any restrictions on his entry to Australia? If so, what are the restrictions and why were they imposed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Government issue instructions to Australia's Ambassador-designate to the People's Republic of China,  Dr S.  FitzGerald, that diplomats should confine themselves to carryingout their diplomatic duties and not engage in political controversy. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Minister for Foreign. Affairs has furnished' the following reply to the honourable senator's. question: 
Such an instruction  is  unnecessary. I have the highest regard  for  Dr Stephen  FitzGerald and I am confident he will carry out his duties with a high degree of professional judgment and skill. 
1 address my question to the Special Minister of State. Did  Mr Li,  the Finance Minister of Taiwan, accept an invitation to attend the forthcoming meeting of the Pacific Basin Economic Council? Did the Australian Government lay down conditions for  Mr Li's  entry into Australia? Did  Mr Li  accept the conditions? Did the Government intervene in any way to prevent  Mr Li  from attending the meeting? 
J direct a further question to the Special Minister of State, as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it not a fact that  Mr Li  was invited to attend the meeting of the Pacific Basin Economic Council in a personal and private capacity and that he was coming in this capacity, as mentioned by  Mr Sinclair  in his question to the Prime Minister? Will the Minister explain how the term 'official' was used - it is the expression that he used - and by whom? Does not his reply to my earlier question indicate subservience to the arrogant demands of the People's Republic of China? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. Is it not a fact that the Prime Minister stated in replay to  Mr Sinclair  that  Mr Li  'would undoubtedly be able to come to Australia under the same conditions as any other person comes from Taiwan', namely, in an unofficial capacity. As  Mr Li  was coming in an unofficial capacity, is it not a reasonable deduction that the Australian Government was prepared to allow  Mr Li  to attend the meeting until it received a complaint from the People's Republic of China? What other countries have made a similar agreement with the People's Republic of China - an agreement, apparently, which enables the People's Republic virtually to veto the entry of Taiwanese into Australia? 
I direct my question to the Acting Leader of the Government. In reply to a question last week about the refusal of the Government to grant a visa to  Mr Li  of Taiwan, the Minister stated that the refusal was based on an agreement between Australia and the People's Republic of China. Will the Minister table the agreement for the information of Parliament? 
I refer the Acting Leader of the Government to reported discussions between  Dr Cairns  and the North Korean Foreign Minister and members of the Provisional Revolutionary Council of South Vietnam in Peking. Were these discussions held with the knowledge and approval of the 
Prime Minister? If so, were the subjects discussed approved of by  Mr Whitlam?  If not, is this another example of  Dr Cairns  conducting his own foreign policy? Did  Dr Cairns  express his support for the revolutionary aims of North Korea and the Provisional Revolutionary Council of South Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the uncertainty in the business community concerning the Government's policy on foreign investment in agriculture and real estate in Australia. Can the Minister provide any information as to the outcome of the study being undertaken on this matter, which was announced by the Treasurer in March? If not, can he indicate when the study will be completed? 
I support the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition by  Senator Durack  that any work exceeding $2m should not be undertaken by the Authority unless the work has been authorised by resolution of each House of the Parliament. The amendment proposes that work valued at more than $2m must be approved in future by the Parliament under the Public Works Committee Act. I understand that a Bill to this effect will be introduced into the Parliament at a later date.  Senator Durack  pointed out that we are not proposing at this time that the Public Works Committee should be brought into the ambit of the Bill but that the principle which the proposed legislation would outline should be adopted by the Committee of the whole. It may be argued that this figure is too low and that some other figure should be proposed. If it were, we would not oppose that figure. We on this side believe that there must be some supervision and control of the construction of the pipeline. 
I know that last night  Senator Cavanagh  argued that the Opposition is putting up all sorts of arguments in Committee to oppose legislation. This is the duty of the Opposition. I recall that  Senator Cavanagh  would argue almost ad nauseam on any matter to oppose a Bill in the Committee stage, which was his right. I would say that he would argue at the drop of a hat on each occasion that he could. It was somewhat annoying at the time, but I believe that he had the absolute right to do so. 
I think it would be a custom rather than a novel experience. It is true that  Senator Cavanagh  did it, and he had an absolute right to do it. He had an absolute right to make and to argue his point. We have the same absolute right now that we are in Opposition, much as it might annoy or frustrate  Senator Cavanagh.  Where the Parliament is being asked to approve a huge sum, which might amount to $l,600m or $2,000m, I believe that in the national interest the Parliament has a right from time to time to take some control over the expenditure of this money. Although there are arguments put forward to oppose this suggestion, there is a clear responsibility on the Parliament to supervise and if necessary control public expenditure. 
There are other factors involved. There are the environmental factors which are so dear to the hearts of many senators, particularly some senators opposite. If the environment is likely to be affected, we all know that governments, whatever political complexion they may be, have the idea of getting a job done, and they disregard or ride roughshod over the complaints, the views and the statements of people who are interested in the environment. It may well be that the Parliament should be aware of this and should exercise some supervision over it. I am not suggesting that the complaints or the arguments of those who have even an obsessed view in relation to the environment should be paramount. Of course they should not; but their views should be taken into account. I think the natural history of public authorities which have no responsibility to the people is to ignore or to ride roughshod over the views of those who seek to protect the environment, whereas Parliament, which is more subject to pressures and more subject to the views of the people, would be inclined to listen to these complaints. Therefore, I think there are some sound arguments why this amendment should be accepted. 
There is no desire to interfere or to hold up in any way the construction of the pipeline. We on this side have accepted the concept that it should be done by a public authority. Having decided this, we feel that it is no argument that Parliament should not maintain at all stages some control over the operations of this Authority. We may not be wedded to $2m. Perhaps another figure could be suggested, but that figure must be realistic. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Durack  on behalf of the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. At his Press conference this week the Prime Minister restated his opposition to the presence of United States Air Force units in Thailand. Has the Prime Minister protested to North Vietnam at the continued presence of North Vietnamese troops in Cambodia? 
I direct a question to the Special Minister of State. I refer to a report that the former Taiwan Embassy has a credit account of $300 in the Keppel Territory land rent account. Does the Government accept the fact that this money belongs to the Government of Taiwan? If so, will it arrange for the money to be remitted to Taiwan or does it intend to seek the views of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China as to what action it should take in regard to this money? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the House. Does the Government intend- 
It is no wonder that students find history a dull subject. Their minds would not have been changed by the long and dreary recital of historical facts, true, false or distorted, by  Senator O'Byrne.  I am not too sure whether  Senator O'Byrne's  speech indicates that he is opposed to a 2-airline policy.  His  whole outlook is governed by the sterile doctrinaire socialist philosophy of himself and so many members of his Party. Perhaps he also wishes to convince us that he is capable of historical research. But one guesses that he did not do the research because he seemed to be reading from some prepared speech. However, I shall not travel along the tiresome road which  Senator O'Byrne  travelled. It is quite irrelevant to the matter which we are discussing. Indeed, I do not intend to say very much about the matter raised by  Senator Withers.  I remind the Senate that the decision to provide Trans-Australia Airlines with added advantages was taken by the previous Government and announced by  Senator Cotton  when he was the Minister for Civil Aviation. We agree with that. We believe that TAA had the right of parity to move into the road transport, tourist and hotel fields. 
We were most concerned, after the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  announced that the legislation was based upon the actions of the previous Government, to find that this was not so. The original legislation was causing great concern in many sections of the industry. However, good sense prevailed. The Minister agreed to a great number of amendments which have satisfied us, with the exception of the one mentioned by  Senator Withers.  I shall make a few comments concerning the decision taken by  Senator Cotton  and the previous Government to permit TAA to operate on the Perth-Darwin ser vice. This was a decision which neither I nor my Party opposed. I say to  Senator O'Byrne,  when he utters this rubbish about a monopoly route, that the number of through passengers from Perth to Darwin averages about 11 a flight. That is hardly a profitable operation for an airline unless it has pickup rights within the State. That average has been maintained over many years. It has not gone up very much nor has it moved down. So this is hardly a competitive route if we look at it in that respect. What is important is not the decision to grant TAA the right to operate on the Perth-Darwin route but the terms under which TAA will be phased into this operation.  Senator Cotton,  as a previous Minister, will recall that I had some discussions with faim on this aspect. 
The north-west and Kimberley's air services, conducted by MacRobertson Miller Airline Services for many years under very difficult conditions, financially, became profitable because of the great build-up of economic resources, mainly in relation to minerals, in Chat area. Today a sophisticated air service is conducted by modern jet aircraft. But there has been a dramatic downturn in traffic over the last .18 months. This is best illustrated by the fact that MMA, which was operating five F28 aircraft to a reasonably full utilisation, has had to put one of its aircraft out to grass. Indeed, it is not obtaining the 3,500 hours, which is a profitable utilisation of jet aircraft, from the remaining 4 aircraft which are maintaining this service. It is not today an economical and profitable service, but I have every confidence that there will be an increase in traffic and that the service will again become an economic and profitable one. 
My concern is that if the Minister for Civil Aviation were in any heavy handed action - he has made all sorts of threats from time to time - to introduce Trans-Australia Airlines into the service on an equal basis with MacRobertson Miller Airlines it would cause a serious reduction in the work force of MacRobertson Miller Airlines and result in the retrenchment of many of its employees, all of whom are Western Australians. It would be bad enough if the ground staff were to lose their jobs, but it would be worse if a number of experienced pilots were to find that their services were no longer required. I will deal with that in a few moments. 
According to information I have received, if TAA were to be phased in on an equal operations basis with MacRobertson Miller Airlines up to 30 highly .trained pilots would no longer have employment. The Western Australian Branch of the Federation of Airline Pilots appointed a committee of experienced captains to prepare a submission on this matter. I hope that the Minister for Civil Aviation has received a copy of it. The Department of Civil Aviation certainly has a copy of it. The committee prepared a reasoned submission which did not oppose the entry of TAA but which .pointed out the danger of the loss of experienced pilots to Australian aviation and, from a humanitarian angle, the effect that any loss of employment would have on young men who have made aviation their life and on their families. It is on that subject that I wish to make a few comments. 
I am not like  Senator O'Byrne.  I do not engage in figments of the imagination. I am stating facts. If  Senator O'Byrne  wants to challenge the facts he is free to do so, but he should not judge others by his actions. If TAA were to be phased in on one or two flights a week on the PerthDarwin service to begin with there would be, in the view of the Pilots Federation, little dislocation of services. MMA .would probably be able to maintain its present pilot strength in anticipation of a build-up of traffic. If that were done and TAA was then allowed to increase its services commensurate with a build-up of traffic both airlines would have a profitable and economic operation with little or no dislocation. But, if that does not happen and TAA is phased in in such a way as to cause disruption, up to 30 pilots could lose their jobs. 
What would that mean to Australian aviation? It should be realised that it takes 2 years before a young man becomes a proficient first officer on modern jet airliners, such are the standards required of him in Australia. Before he is proficient to command a modern jet airliner he is required to have 8 to 10 years experience as a first officer. Those are the standards that are common to the aviation industry in Australia. Over the next 5 years there will be a tremendous exodus of senior captains from the airline industry. It should be remembered that the senior cap tains flying the large jet aircraft of today are mainly ex-servicemen who, at the end of the Second World War, would have been anything from 25 to 30 years of age. So, if one does one's arithmetic, one will see that in the next 5 years the oldest of them will be reaching the retirement age of 60 and many more of 54 or 55 years of age will be, for various reasons, leaving the industry. 
If we were to lose, say, 30 young first officers - I have been advised that they would be men of 28, 30 or 32 years of age with 4 or 5 years experience as first officers who could be expected to be in command of aircraft in the next 3, 4 or 5 years - we would not have in Australia the experienced first officers to take command of aircraft and fill the tremendous gap that will occur when the senior pilots retire. In other words, we cannot afford to lose these men from the aviation industry in Australia. But their chances of reemployment in Australia are pretty well negligible. If they were employed by another airline in Australia they would have to go to the bottom of the seniority list. Because of the seniority system that applies to pilots a young first officer with one or two years experience would be senior to a transferred officer with 4, 5 or 6 years experience and would naturally get command of an aircraft before the more experienced officer. If these pilots were re-employed in Australia - I have been advised that their chances of being reemployed in Australia are pretty well negligible - they would go to the bottom of the seniority list and would have to start all over again. So to a great extent their experience still would be wasted. 
What is more important is that many of these young men have tire opportunity of being employed by overseas airlines. Because of doubts in the minds of pilots employed by MacRobertson Miller Airline Services as to their future, 3 senior first officers have already gone to Moroccan Airlines and others have been tempted to leave Australia. Six captains are on loan to Malaysia-Singapore Airlines. In addition, there are 11 or 12 Australian captains already flying with MalaysiaSingapore Airlines. It is interesting to note that the training standards are so high in Australia that even junior captains with little experience initially of flying in command of Friendship aircraft are now in command, after 12 months or so with MalaysiaSingapore Airlines, of modern jet aircraft. That is an indication of the high standard of training in Australia. What I am trying to say is if these men go overseas they will be lost to Australian aviation for ever. We simply cannot afford to lose any more of our experienced young pilots to overseas countries simply because there are doubts as to their future in Australian aviation. My plea to the Minister for Civil Aviation is that he pay regard to these facts and ensure that the phasing in operations of TAA do not cause dislocation or the loss of jobs to Western Australian pilots. I will not be very happy if Western Australian based pilots lose their jobs and pilots are brought over to Western Australia from the eastern States to operate TAA aircraft. 
I ask the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Civil Aviation to take note of what I have said and to draw it to the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation. I assure him that it is a matter of importance and that it is causing grave concern among pilots in Western Australia, who, I am bound to say, are adopting a reasonable attitude to the entry of TAA. They are not opposed to it. They accept it as being right. They accept that competition had to come into the operations in Western Australia and believe it is a good thing that it has, but they are worried about this very important aspect I have raised. 
The last point I wish to make concerns the rumour that TAA wishes to operate DC9 aircraft on certain routes in Western Australia. I am advised that when Ansett Transport Industries was considering the reequipment of MacRobertson Miller Airlines with jet aircraft, it considered using DC9 aircraft but was advised by the Department of Civil Aviation that because of operational and safety requirements the DC9 aircraft could not operate on runways .with a width of less than ISO feet. As I understand the position, this advice had something to do with the decision to purchase the F28 aircraft which can operate on these runways. The 3 major airports in Western Australia with runways of less than 150 feet are Kununurra, Mount Newman and Karratha, which is the airport for Dampier and the great mining developments in the Pilbara. 
I think it would be a shame if through Ministerial action DCA was pressured into allowing DC9 aircraft to operate in these areas, if in fact the recent decision was the correct one. I do not put it any higher than that. My information is that in the past Ansett Transport Industries has been advised that it would not be granted permission to operate these aircraft, and it would seem to be an odd thing if that decision was changed and some dispensation given to TAA to operate on these airfields, if indeed it intends to do so. I understand that TAA wishes to operate into Karratha if it is given intrastate rights by the Western Australian Government. I presume TAA would wish also to land in Kununurra on the Darwin-Perth service. 
Those regulations do not apply to Fellowship aircraft because it is a smaller aircraft. The Department of Civil Aviation is quite happy for that aircraft to operate on a runway with a width of 100 feet. So there is no waiving of regulations involved. The DC9 is a bigger aircraft. I will not go into the details of why these regulations apply, buy they do apply because of the very high safety requirements to DCA. It could well be that in other countries these aircraft do operate on 100-foot width runways, but the very high safety requirements which apply here, which I think we all support, preclude this aircraft from landing on 100-foot width runways in Australia. I shall say no more. We support the Bill but we will be supporting the amendment which has been foreshadowed by  Senator Withers  on behalf of the Liberal Opposition. I ask the Minister to take note of the comments I have made. 
The Opposition has pleasure in supporting this Bill. I have spoken on many occasions over the years on Tariff Bills and tariff policy and often have been very critical of them. The decision by the Tariff Board to recommend that the bounty on agricultural tractors be continued and accepted by the Government is a sound decision. It would have been a bad decision had a duty been applied. Tractors are an important element of cost in our rural industries. I often think it is  a  pity that more of those areas of industry which are of vital concern to our rural industries are not given assistance by bounty rather than by high levels of duty. 
The only unfortunate element, which is not mentioned in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General and Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy),  is that tractors of below 20 horse power are subject to a 30 per cent duty. Tractors of that horse power are not used for farming in big areas but are certainly used in orchards and other types of rural industry. I understand this is only a temporary arangement. The Tariff Board is conducting a general review of tariffs particularly as regards production which is affecting rural industries. We support this Bill and recommended that bounties be used far more often than they have been used in the past to protect local industries. 
1 wish to say a few words on these Bills because, like  Senator Laucke  and  Senator DrakeBrockman,  1 deplore the fact that the Government has altered the previous Government's commitments to the wool industry. I am reminded of the decisions made in regard to primary industries at the Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party. I am very tempted tonight to quote what  Dr Patterson  thought about his colleagues and their knowledge of primary industries at the Launceston Conference. It makes very interesting reading. One cannot help but think that the decisions embodied in this Bill are the result of the complete lack of knowledge of the Labor Party in regard to our rural industries, particularly our greatest rural industry, and the Labor Party's lack of concern for those industries. 
The Australian Wool Corporation is responsible for all aspects of the wool industry such as research, promotion, marketing and so on. It is a matter of regret that the Government has gone back to the previous levy which applied and which was altered by the former Government because of the low prices being suffered by the wool industry. It seems that in the first year in which prices have improved the Government wants to take it out of the industry. We have no means of knowing whether the present prices will continue. We do know that despite the very satisfactory prices of this year many wool growers are still in a parlous economic condition because of the low prices and drought that they have suffered over so many years. I think that the Government might have shown more sympathy for the industry than it has. As we understand it there has been little or no consultation by the Government with the industry prior to the making of these decisions. Ignoring the views of industry leaders seems to be a growing habit of this Government. This practice, of course, is to be deplored. 
Because of the guillotine I am not able to speak for very long on this matter, but I would like to make one or two points. It seems to. me that the great weaknesses of this legislation which applies to one year only must raise great doubts in the industry in regard to the Government's future intentions. If research and promotion are to be effective they must be based on a long term and not a year to year basis. There is no guarantee that wool prices will remain as they are. Certainly the future prices depend on demand. The present high prices will SOOn be reflected in the price of wollen garments and the promotional side of the industry will be faced with the challenge of maintaining the level of sales. If sales are not maintained we can expect wool prices to fall. Therefore it may well be that there will have to be increased expenditure on promotion to sustain the demand for wool. 
I would like also to refer to the fact that there must be continuing research effort to lower the cost of production over all areas of wool handling, from the sheep's back to the mill. In this respect one of the areas which has been most neglected in shearing. The present methods of shearing are costly and inefficient. I know that there are- 
Yes, and fleecing probably. But as 1 have said, the present methods of shearing are costly and inefficient and with the increasing cost being loaded onto the industry by the present Government's policies and increased wages for sections of the community, one can only expect the costs to increase. These present methods are not good enough in this highly scientific and technical age. Some valuable research is being done on the removal of wool not so much by shearing but by the use of chemicals and by other means. Certainly a great need exists for increased research in this area. The handling of wool is already costly and outmoded. I think that we can expect that core testing and sale by sample and description will be the method of selling wool in the future. This opens great possibilities for reducing costs in the handling of wool. I think that the Yennora project will turn out to be a costly white elephant because of advances made in the handling and selling of wool. I deplore the uncertainty which must be raised in the industry by the Government's decision to limit this assistance to one year only. If the industry is to prosper, it must have confidence and security, and the Government is failing to provide either. 
 I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and remind him that the Prime Minister and  Senator Willesee  have repeatedly asserted that the formula used in assuming diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China was similar to the formula adopted by other countries. I ask: Is it a fact that a Japanese organisation called the Interchange Organisation, which is financed by government and private funds and which has on its executive the  deputy  chief of the Japanese Embassy in Taiwan, together with the Association for Far East Relations, which is headed by a former Taiwan Foreign Ministry official, both organisations being staffed by officers detached from official duties, conduct relations between the 2 countries? Is it a fact also that sporting, cultural and other exchanges, including airline services, continue as before and that trade has increased significantly? Is it a fact that Canada has a similar arrangement? If these suggestions are correct, will the Government admit that the Australian formula does not permit the same type of relationship with Taiwan as that which Japan, Canada and other countries have? Will the Government now stop misleading the Australian people on the matter? 
I suppose that we will be accused once again of obstructing the Government's legislation, but I want to make it clear that my attitude and. that of the Opposition is more basic than that. Our attitude is to protect the Senate, as it was formed by our founding fathers. As was indicated earlier, we do not oppose increased representation for the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives. It is there that representatives of the Territory can achieve their most proper and effective representation. The question of Territory representation in the Senate, and indeed in Parliament generally, was the subject of considerable debate at the constitutional convention and also in the United States of America, on the Senate of which country our Senate was so closely modelled. It was also the subject of a good deal of comment in Quick and Garran's commentaries on the Constitution. They deal at great length with territorial representation. In a few moments I shall cite extracts from that commentary. 
There are some doubts as to the constitutional validity of this legislation. It appears to me, one who is not a constitutional lawyer, and no doubt if this legislation is passed the constitutional lawyers will argue, that there is some conflict in the Constitution because, as already mentioned by  Senator Jessop,  section 7 of the Constitution says: 
The Senate shall be composed of senators for each State, directly chosen by the people of the State, voting, until the Parliament otherwise provides, as one electorate. 
It then goes on to say that senators shall be chosen for a term of 6 years. Section 122 makes provision for the Parliament to make laws for the government of any territory and on such terms and to the extent which it thinks fit. 
At one stage the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said that there were some legal and constitutional problems to be solved. On Tuesday, 16 January, 'The Canberra Times' reported  Mr Enderby  as stating in Darwin in reference to representation for the Australian Capital Territory: 
Because of the wording of the Australian  Consitution,  they could be called Representatives rather than Senators. 
If that were true, we would have the farcical situation of having some second class citizens in the Senate. We would have senators and these other characters would be called representatives. That was  Mr Enderby's  view. However, I do not want to labour this point. It is at least doubtful whether these people could enjoy the title 'senator'. 
Our objection is more basic than that. It is that the Senate was conceived as a State House or State assembly and its major role, as has been mentioned by previous speakers on this side, was to  protect  the interests of the States, in particular the smaller and less populous States. The whole principle 01 federation was equality of Senate representation for the original States and that all legislation, as was mentioned by  Senator Gair,  must have the assent of a majority of senators. From a reading of the Convention debates it is extremely doubtful whether the smaller States would have agreed to federation if they had not been able to achieve equality of representation and without the guarantee that they would maintain equality of representation. This principle would be destroyed by territorial representation with full voting powers. Somebody - I think it was  Senator Gair  - asked: Has the Government consulted the States on this matter? 
The answer is that it does not consult the States on anything which is of interest to the States. I believe it was incumbent upon the Commonwealth Government before bringing this measure forward to consult the original States. I referred to Quick and Garran. I think if we are to show clearly why we oppose this legislation we should have a look at the interpretation or the com mentary on the Convention debates by these very distinguished Australian constitutional lawyers and have a brief look, if time permits, at the report of the United States House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary, particularly the 3 powerful minority reports which convinced Congress that territorial representation in the Senate should not be granted in the United States. Quick and Garran wrote: 
The Senate is one of the most conspicuous, and unquestionably the most important, of all federal features of the Constitution, using the word federal in the sense of linking together and uniting a number of co-equal political communities, under a common system of government. The Senate is not merely  a  branch of a bicameral Parliament; it is not merely  a  second chamber of revision and review representing the sober second thought of the nation, such as the House of Lords is supposed to be; it is that, but something more than that. It is the chamber in which the States, considered as separate entities, and corporate parts of the Commonwealth, are represented. They are so represented for the purpose of enabling them to maintain and protect their constitutional rights against attempted invasions . . . 
They continue: 
That the Senate is the Council of States in the Federal Parliament is proved by the words of this section. There are to be six senators for each Original State. That the States, and not the people- 
I repeat 'That the States, and not the people' -  are actually represented in the Senate is shown by the requirement that the 'equal representation of the several Original States shall be maintained'. Equality of representation, it is argued, is a natural corollary of State representation, because the colonies were, prior to federation, politically equal; equal in constitutional power and status, although not necessarily equal in territory or population. 
This shows that Quick and Garran were quite clear on this. They continued: 
The national part of the Parliament is the House of Representatives - the organ of the nation. The Federal part of the Parliament is the Senate - the organ of the States. . . . 
Here we have the view of these distinguished Australian constitutional lawyers. Those who wish to argue in favour of territorial representation must argue against the original concept shown in the Convention debates and mentioned by Quick and Garran. Quick and Garran further wrote: 
Local representation was adequately provided for in the House of Representatives. In the Senate the principle of locality, as the basis of representation, should be ignored, and corporate representation should be insisted upon. 
Again the view of Quick and Garran is quite clear. When they posed the question whether the territories should have representation in the Senate, while not denying that there could be an occasion for representation in the House of Representatives, they said: 
As regards Senate elections the answer must clearly be in the negative; the Senators for each State must be chosen by 'the people of the State'. 
So here we have quite clearly interpreted the intention of the constitutional founders of this country. 
We come now to the situation in the United States where in 1967 the House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary was asked to report on the advisability of having representation both in the lower House and in the Senate for the District of Columbia. The separate views of the  Hon.  Richard H. Poff are interesting because he first of all posed the question which has been posed here this afternoon: Is there any national consensus supporting this approach? He was dealing with representation of the District of Columbia in the Senate of the United States. He goes on to answer no. Is there any national consensus supporting this proposal in Australia? The answer must surely be no. He then goes on in his minority report, after quoting the United States Constitution which is the same as our own, that is, equality of representation as between the States, to say: 
The purpose of the proviso was to furnish a forum where States with smaller populations could yet exert influence. That purpose is defeated as effectively by according senatorial representation to a non-State as by according more representation to a larger State. 
I think we should take note of that view. Then we have the view of the  Hon.  Edward Hutchinson who said: 
The Senate of the United States-- 
We can relate this to our own Senate -  is an assembly of States and  it  is a deep concern of many of my colleagues that representation in the Senate by political entities other than States presents so fundamental a change of concept as to destroy the present constitutional character of that body. 
Here again we have a very powerful argument. The final comment by the  Hon.  Edward Hutchinson is worth noting. He said: 
I believe every member of the House must resolve the following question in his own mind before he votes on this proposal: 
On close votes in the House or the Senate where one or two votes can make  the  differencein extremely controversial issues, should the people who choose to reside in  the  Nation's Capital bold  the  balance of power? 
The answer again is no. I now quote the minority views of the  Hon.  Charles E. Wiggins and the  Hon.  William V. Roth. They said: 
We believe that the people  of  the District should be represented in the House of Representatives . . . 
We do not oppose that view. They continued: 
The Senate is not  a  forum where 'people' are represented. Senators are elected by the people  of  each State to represent that State in the  national  legislative body. The entire federal system is predicated upon this principle. 
Later on in their minority report they ask: 
How, then, does the District merit  admission to  that body? 
That is, the Senate - 
Only by the fiction that it should be treated 'asif it were a State'. The Constitution should not be amended to formalise that fiction. The District is not a State and possesses none of the essential attributes  of  sovereignty which characterise  a  State. The District is a city, truly a Federal city. . . . 
Then I quote the final paragraph of their minority report, because I think this is fundamental to the situation. It states: 
Heretofore, our history and our laws have spoken in unison: the Senate represents States, the House represents the people. This distinction is the foundation of our federal system - governments within a government, sovereignties within a sovereignty. This principle has served us too well to be eroded by an amendment such as that now before the House. 
The United States Congress showed that these powerful arguments embodied in the minority reports were such that they defeated the proposal to provide Senate representation for the District of Columbia. We on this side of the House believe that these arguments are equally applicable to Australia and the Opposition holds strongly and firmly to the view that the representation in the Senate of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory would undermine the constitutional rights of the States. The Senate should not approve of this legislation without at least first obtaining the approval of the States. 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. It relates to the recent Chinese nuclear blast. What were the terms of the Australian protest to China? Has a reply to the protest been received and, if so, what were the terms of the reply? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Have the Prime Minister and the Special Minister of State repeatedly asserted that the formula establishing diplomatic relations between this country and the People's Republic of China is similar to the formula adopted by other countries. 
Is it a fact that a Japanese organisation called the Interchange Association, which is financed by Government and private funds and whose executive was the deputy chief of the Japanese Embassy in Taiwan, and the Association for Far East Relations which is headed by a former Taiwan Foreign Ministry officer, are both staffed by officials detached from official duties to conduct relations between the two countries. 
Have sports, cultural and other exchanges, as well as air services, between Japan and Taiwan continued much as before, and the level of trade increased significantly between these countries, since Japan recognised the People's Republic of China. 
Does Canada have an arrangement similar to the one between Japan and Taiwan. 
Does the Australian formula recognising the People's Republic of China permit the same type of relationship with Taiwan as those of Japan, Canada and other countries. 
Will the Government stop misleading the Australian people on this matter. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Government is aware of reports to this effect. 
It is understood that arrangements for private trade between Canada and Taiwan are similar to our own. 
The joint Sino-Australian communique signed on 22 December (Canberra time) records Australia's decision to remove its official representation from Taiwan but does not otherwise address the question of the relationship between Australia and Taiwan. Australia's position on residual private contacts with Taiwan is similar to that of Canada and other countries in diplomatic relations with China. 
The Government has not misled the Australian people on this matter. 
 I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the ban on trade with France, imposed by trade unions and supported by leading members of the Government including the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, still in force? Is it a fact that  Dr Cairns  on behalf of the Government recently signed a trade agreement accompanied by expressions of eternal friendship with China - a country which recently exploded a nuclear bomb which affected 7 times more people than the French nuclear tests did? Have  Mr Hawke  and the trade unions protested at the signing of the agreement, or do the Government and the trade unions regard the French bomb as being ideologically dirty and the Chinese bomb as being ideologically clean? Does the Government regard the different attitudes it adopts to trade with France and China as indicating a double standard? 
I address a question to the Special Minister of State. As the Government seems to believe that one of the virtues of the Chinese nuclear tests is that the tests have been conducted over Chinese territory, I ask the Minister: Does the Chinese Government consider the effect of nuclear fall-out to be of little significance, or does the Chinese Government display a callous disregard for the health and welfare of its people? If the Minister does not know the answer, will he ascertain it for me? 
I  give notice that, on the next day of sitting,  I  shall move: 
That the Senate deplores the Government's double standards in respect of atmospheric nuclear testing by China and France. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows on from the question asked by  Senator Young.  If the report that the Prime Minister has placed a ban on public servants visiting Taiwan even in a private capacity be correct, will the Minister advise the Senate of the reasons for the ban? What other countries which previously recognised Taiwan and now have diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China have placed a ban on public servants visiting Taiwan? 
I move: 
That the Senate deplores the Government's double standards in respect of atmospheric nuclear testing by China and France. 
Let me make it clear at the outset that the Opposition condemns all atmospheric nuclear testing wherever it is conducted and by whomever it is conducted. Our attitude was made clear when in government; our attitude has been made clear in opposition. The former Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Honourable Nigel Bowen, led in the United Nations the condemnation of atmospheric nuclear testing. We stand alongside any country in the world in our condemnation of these tests. We are not selective. We charge the Government with double standards in relation to French and Chinese atmospheric nuclear testing. Over a long period the Opposition both in the Senate and in the House of Representatives has asked numerous questions of the Government seeking answers to specific points. We have been met with evasions and waffle. In a moment we will look at some of the questions asked and some of the answers given. 
The Government has protested to China. It has not told us - maybe there are diplomatic reasons for this - the form or the terms of the protest. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  appeared confused as to the form of the protest, and I will come to that later. We have sought answers to certain questions and we believe that the answers supplied indicate different policies towards China and France. We accept the fact that the Government - maybe reluctantly; maybe more in sorrow than in anger - has protested to China. 
I want to make the distinction between protests and condemnations. Protests are forms of words; condemnations are different things altogether. The Government has not only protested to France, it also has condemned France in the strongest possible terms. It has taken action against France. It has never condemned China in the same form. Indeed, the Prime Minister admits that, as we will see later. The Government has taken no action against China. Fortunately the double standards of the Government are easy to expose because we have a very garrulous Prime Minister. He has the unpleasant habit of lecturing the world at every opportunity.  His  incredible conceit leads him to believe that he is a man of destiny. This prevents Him realising that every statement he makes clearly exposes him and his Government to the charge of adopting double standards. 
It is interesting to note that no member of the Government either in this House or in the other place has ever asked a question which is critical of China in regard to atmospheric nuclear testing. All the questions in regard to China have come from the Opposition. But members of the Government have asked many questions which are critical of the French tests. One wonders whether the Government should not adopt a new slogan. I suggest the new slogan should be this: 'It's time to go with President Chou'. It has taken us many months to try to establish - we still have not established it because of the conflicting statements made  by  the Prime Minister and by  Senator Murphy  - whether the Government's attitude to nuclear testing was based on principle or on humanitarian grounds. I have asked  Senator Murphy  on several occasions whether the Government's attitude to nuclear testing in the asmosphere was based on principle. In answering most of my previous questions he waffled all around the point, but on 15 March he said, as appears at page 455 of Hansard: 
The question of Australia's opposition to nuclear testing is one of principle. 
They are fine words, but then he became ambivalent because he went on to say: 
Already I have indicated that there are some differences, on a scientific basis, as to relative adverse effects. 
If we as a nation are opposing something on principle, I suggest that it does not matter what relative merits or differences there are on the basis of science. There are differences such as there may be in legal relations. So here again we have a qualification. We accept the fact for the time being that  Senator Murphy  opposed these tests as a matter of principle. The Prime Minister adopted a somewhat different attitude. On 13 March he was asked a question in relation to French and Chinese nuclear tests and he replied: 
The physical features- 
I presume by that he means that we are in the region in which the French are conducting tests -  which give Australia that option of approaching the International Court of Justice against the French tests are not applicable against the Chinese tests. 
Do we take that as an excuse to do nothing about the Chinese tests? That is the Prime Minister's statement. So here we have an ambivalent attitude expressed again. There is no question of principle. There are some questions of legal problems or some questions relating to the region in which we live. So the Prime Minister again is differing from  Senator Murphy,  as we would understand it - if we understand the Prime Minister, of course. But what is the point on which they differ? In the interests of humanity, fallout anywhere in the world is something which we condemn. On the best scientific advice we could receive, the fallout in Australia from Chinese tests represents 20 per cent of the fallout over Australia. Of course, the Prime Minister has been asked about this and he has waffled about the proportion being one-eighth and one-sixth. He changed from time to time. 
Or no effect at all. That is true. I think he did make that comment. I think the words he used were that there was no discernible effect. So the Prime Minister was excusing himself for not taking action against China. But the proportion of fallout over Australia from Chinese tests is 20 per cent. Then the Prime Minister was asked about the form of protest made to China. At a Press conference held on 8 May he was asked: 
Have you had any response from the Chinese Government on your protest note on nuclear testing? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
The protest to China was oral, so there would be no written response. 
So the protest was oral.  Senator Webster  asked  Senator Murphy  a similar question on 15 May.  Senator Murphy  replied: 
The protest took the form of a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Chinese Foreign Minister,  Mr Chi  Peng-Fei. The letter was handed to the Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister. ... by he Australian Charge d'Affairs  in Peking. 
This was a written protest from the Prime Minister. A week before the Prime Minister has said that it was only an oral protest, so there would be no response. But  Mr Whitlam,  in reply to that challenge, said that both answers were correct. The Charge d'Affaires handed a letter to  Mr Chi  Peng-Fei and then there was a conversation explaining the points of view of both Governments. Here we had the Foreign Minister, who presumably sent the protest, not knowing he had sent it saying it was an oral protest. That explains the confused state of mind of the Prime Minister in relation to the Australian Government's attitude to Chinese tests. I think it also indicates that he had very little interest in the protest. 
The Australian Government has taken great pride, and has repeatedly expressed its pride, in mobilising world opinion against French atmospheric nuclear testing.  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions also has boasted that the ACTU has mobilised the trade unions throughout the world to protest and to place a ban on French trade and French communications. This ban has been supported by leading members of the Government, including  Dr Cairns.  It is true that at one stage the Prime Minister appealed to the ACTU to remove the ban, not because he disagreed with it but because he thought lt might affect the Australian case before the International Court of Justice. Of course, the trade unions would not agree with  Mr Whitlam  and the ban remains. So we have the situation where the trade unions, supported by leading members of the Government - no member of the Government has ever denounced the trade unions for it - have placed a ban against all trade and all communications with France.  Senator Murphy  was asked by  Senator Webster- 
 No. We do not need to get our heads together; we can read.  Senator McAuliffe  can neither read nor understand.  Senator Webster  asked the Leader of the Government this question: 
Will the Government advise the Government of the Peoples Republic of China that this Government will support the unions in this country in their threat to halt all communications and trade relations with China unless she immediately stops nuclear testing in the atmosphere? Will the Government advise China, as a Minister of this Government advised France, that it will consider breaking diplomatic relations with China unless it halts nuclear testing? 

 Senator Murphy commenced in his usual waffling fashion and then said: 
. I have noted the approbation which was given even by members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party for the participation of trade unions in endeavouring to prevent harm being done to the people of the world as a result of such tests. I am pleased to see that the honourable senator has now come to the view that it is within the province of trade unions to take action in relation to matters- 
I think that was a distortion of what  Senator Webster  had said - 
. which might be regarded as national issues and matters concerned with foreign affairs. 

 Senator Murphy was applauding the trade unions for placing a ban in the interests of humanity on trade and communications with France.  Senator Murphy  was, in effect, saying: 'This is not selective. It is not a question of whether more harm is done somewhere or whether more harm is done somewhere else. It is in the interests of humanity - of all the people of the world, whether they live in the south west Pacific region or whether they live in Japan, Korea or indeed in the Peoples Republic of China itself. But one of the interesting aspects of this is that greater harm is done to humanity, greater harm is done to the people of the world by the Chinese atmospheric tests than is done by the French tests. At least 7 times more people are affected by the Chinese tests. In addition, the Chinese bomb is a far dirtier bomb than the French bomb. The French testing has been done mainly with a trigger device and not with an actual nuclear weapon. The Chinese bomb is also more dangerous because it is exploded over land in a hot area where the particles are dragged into the atmosphere and they float around the atmosphere for many years; the bombs are not exploded over water. I am not excusing the French, but I am merely pointing out that greater harm is done to humanity, to the people of the world, by Chinese tests than is done by French tests. 
Shortly I will come to this extraordinary word 'monstrous' which was used by the Prime Minister. What is the attitude to the Chinese tests of the ACTU,  Dr Cairns, Senator Murphy  and the Prime Minister in the interests of humanity? It has been one of monumental inaction. Some little time ago  Dr Cairns  led a trade delegation to China and he said that he protested to Chou En-lai concerning the Chinese tests, but Chou 
En-lai become somewhat angry and replied very angrily to  Dr Cairns  and made it quite clear that China was going to continue nuclear testing whether we liked it or not. What was the reaction of the Australian Government to this? The trade unions, supported by the Government and strongly supported by  Dr Cairns,  placed a ban on trade with France. But  Dr Cairns,  when he was in China, invited the Chinese Minister of Trade to come to Australia to conclude a trade agreement. In due course this delegation, led by the Minister of Trade, arrived in Australia.  Dr Cairns  rushed to Sydney to greet the Chinese Minister of Trade and to kotow before him.  Dr Cairns  brought him to Canberra. They had discussions, and in due course they signed a trade agreement. Then we saw in the newspapers an interesting photograph of  Mr Whitlam  grinning like a cat that had just swallowed a pigeon, sitting alongside  Dr Cairns  with a smug look on his face, welcoming the Chinese Minister of Trade to Australia and congratulating him on signing the trade agreement. 
As  Senator McManus  reminds me, it was most favoured nation treatment. They expressed to one another thoughts of eternal friendship. There is an interesting question for the Government to answer, and I challenge the Government to answer it. Had the French Minister for Trade come to Australia with a French trade delegation in order to improve trade between Australia and France, would  Dr Cairns  have hotfooted it to Sydney to meet the delegation? Would he have brought the delegation to Canberra? Would the Prime Minister have received the delegation? 
 Senator McAuliffe,  who is so vocal, might answer this question. Would the Australian Prime Minister and the Minister for Overseas Trade have received the delegation, or would they have rebuffed it like they rebuffed the Portuguese? I suggest the answer is that they would not have received the delegation because the Australian Government had protested against French atmospheric nuclear testing. If the Government wants to put a contrary view, let it do so. Let it say: 'We would welcome the French Minister of Trade in Australia'. Let it say here and now that it is prepared to sign a trade agreement with France and let it say that it will demand that the trade unions lift the ban on French trade and communications. It is very interesting to note that despite the ban on French trade there was no protest from  Mr Hawke  and the trade unions about the visit of the Chinese Trade Minister and the conclusion of a trade agreement with China. There has been no suggestion from trade union leaders, other than from  Mr Short  and one or two other sensible, rational and logical trade union leaders, that a ban should be placed upon Chinese trade. In other words, we have a selective protest and a selective policy. That in itself is a double standard. It is also interesting to quote from an answer the Prime Minister gave to a question asked by Mi Anthony regarding the ban on trade with France. .He concluded his answer, such as it was by saying: 
My previous answer stands. I will amplify it however by quoting the right honourable gentleman. 
That is,  Mr Anthony. 
We will not sell our soul for trade. 
What humbug. What hypocrisy. Shortly afterwards he sold his soul to China for trade. Let honourable members opposite answer that one. 'We will not sell our soul for trade'! It has been sold already. It is noteworthy also that at one stage  Dr Cairns,  apparently in a more frank moment, said that he would support a ban on trade with China if it exploded a nuclear weapon. Well, China exploded one and  Dr Cairns  has been silent ever since.  The  only action he has taken since then has been to kowtow before the Chinese Minister for Trade and to sign a trade agreement. If that is not a double standard, what is? 
Let us look at the case before the International Court of Justice. We do not oppose the Government taking the French Government to the International Court of Justice. Indeed, we applaud it. However, when we asked about China we were told that because China does not recognise the International Court of Justice there is no legal basis for taking China before that Court. But does that excuse the Government from taking action against China? Does that excuse the Government for not imposing a trade ban against China? Of course it does not. That is an excuse to do nothing, a legal quibble. That is all it is - nothing more and nothing less. There are plenty of other actions open to the Government to show and move its condemnation of Chinese atmospheric tests, instead of hiding in a cowardly manner behind some legal quibble that China does not recognise the International Court of Justice and that therefore we should sit down, wring our hands and say we can do nothing more about it. It does not prevent the trade union movement from taking action, but it has the same double standard as the Government in relation to this matter. 
Let us look at the one man, the Prime Minister, and examine his actions throughout the world. Recently he went on a tour to Mexico, the United States of America and then to Ottawa. Everywhere he went he did damage to Australia internationally by his rudeness and his ill-mannered and undiplomatic remarks. He went to Mexico to seek from the Mexican Government support for the condemnation of French nuclear tests. There was no word from the Prime Minister of the Chinese nuclear tests. He ran into some problems because it appeared that the Prime Minister was not aware of the close relationship between Mexico and France, although  Mr David  Solomon excuses him for this.  Mr Solomon,  who is not unbiased towards the Prime Minister - that is not my problem for he is quite entitled to his views - writing in the 'Canberra Times' on 30 July this year said after pointing out that  Mr Whitlam  was well aware of this little matter of Mexican-French relations: 

 Mr Whitlam therefore went into talks knowing, for example, that the Mexicans would not be prepared specifically to denounce France for its recent nuclear tests, but that it would be prepared to denounce all tests. 
That was not the Prime Minister's proposal. His proposal was to denounce France, and France alone. The article continued: 
He was prepared - 
That was jolly big of him - 
. to accept that, and not make a point of arguing about it. 
In other words, the Prime Minister had to accept the simple facts of life.  His  first port of call on this tour was Mexico. He wanted Mexico to join with him in denouncing French tests with no word about Chinese tests, but he ran into a slight problem. But then we had a report of a most amazing interview which was had with the Prime Minister in Ottawa. The Melbourne 'Herald' of Friday, 3 August, reported what the Prime Minister said. Let us analyse what he said and the meaning of what he said. The report started off by saying that  Mr Whitlam  had said that France's nuclear test program was more monstrous than China's. I do not know whether we have degrees of monstrosity, but he said it was more monstrous than China's. On what did he base this? I have said already, and it is scientifically correct, that the Chinese bomb is dirtier than the French bomb. It might be ideologically cleaner to the Prime Minister but it is scientifically dirtier. It affects far more people than the French bomb and harms far more people, including some hundreds of millions of Chinese. Here we have a peculiar position. I tried to get an answer from the Government on whether the Chinese regarded the fallout danger as being insignificant or whether China showed a callous disregard for the welfare and health of its people. It cannot have it both ways. I will come back to the question of monstrosity in a minute.  Mr Whitlam  said that he could not rule out the possibility that Australia would cut diplomatic relations with Paris. The article continues: 

 Mr Whitlam said he had never specifically threatened to break relations with France but this was one of the options. 
That is pretty powerful talk. The article goes on with what he said in one of his moments of humility: 
I do not go around telling people in advance what my intentions are,' he said. 
That is certainly a change. I do not think anybody understands his intentions but he tries to talk about them quite a lot. Has there been any suggestion by the Government that it would recall our Ambassador from China? There has been not a word. However,  Mr Whitlam  has been considering the breaking off of diplomatic relations with France. What is that other than a double standard? Incidentally, the conference was being held in a converted railway station, which seemed to be a  pretty good  place to hold this conference. I will continue with this gem. The report continues: 

 Mr Whitlam is expected to seek joint action by other Commonwealth countries to condemn the French nuclear tests in the Pacific. 
There, is no mention again of Chinese tests - just French tests. The Commonwealth Prime 
Ministers for various reasons were not prepared to go along with him on that proposal either so he came home without achieving that great ambition.  Mr Whitlam  went on to say that he agreed that his criticisms of the French program were in sterner language - that is tougher talk - than his response to China's atmospheric tests. But he said, the French tests were more monstrous. We have dealt already with this degree of monstrosity, if I may use that expression, in relation to this matter.  Mr Whitlam  wants to have degrees so that one can be more monstrous than the other. However, the more monstrous one scientifically and in every other way is the Chinese test, so that is extremely queer logic.  His  excuse is that we must not offend Chou En Lai. That would be a dreadful thing to do. Our new found friend, we cannot offend him. It does not matter whether we offend our old time friends such as France. That is another matter. I believe that we should offend both of them equally. Referring to France he continued: 
They were not under any military threat. 
Again, we have this lecturing. He is deciding whether the French Government regards itself as being under military threat. I would have thought that that would be a matter for the French Government to decide, not the Australian Prime Minister who is 12,000 miles away. He continued: 
. they were using territory far from their homeland to conduct the program, 
Where is this matter of great principle that we have heard  Senator Murphy  talk about? He has said that the Government condemns all nuclear tests as a matter of principle. There is no mention of principle here. The Prime Minister is using another criterion. It is not principle. He had not thought of that one. The article continues: 
He said he considered China was under threat. 
Maybe China is under threat and perhaps the Chinese consider themselves to be under threat. Does that excuse them from exploding nuclear bombs without considering the health and welfare of millions of people in the world once the fall-out goes obliquely over Japan and Korea? Apparently, the Prime Minister thinks it does. If that is not adopting double standards, I do not know what is. The Government's definition of double standards is far different from ours. No one would accept his definition. The article further states: 
The Chinese themselves got most of the radioactive fall-out, he said. 
Australia was among the countries to get the effects of the French fall-out, he said. 
We get at least 20 per cent of our fall-out from Chinese nuclear tests. Here again, the Prime Minister is using an odd criterion because the Chinese people are having their health and welfare affected. He just washes his hands of it and says that it does not matter. He did not mention that if the Chinese like to explode bombs that affect only the Chinese that this is their problem. But it can be shown clearly that Japan and Korea are affected immediately. So it is not only the People's Republic of China that is affected. The Prime Minister was dishonest and misleading in not including Japan and Korea as being affected within days of the Chinese Tests. Obviously, he denies that there is a principle involved. If  Senator Murphy  accepts that, I agree with him. Perhaps  Senator Murphy  might like to have a discussion with the Prime Minister on the definition of the word 'principle'. We are not quite sure what he means by it, but if he means what we mean, we would agree with him. 
I come now to the final point: Australia's Ambassador to Paris,  Mr Renouf,  returned to Australia. He made a reported statement in which he said that he was remaining in  Australia  for some weeks to display to the French Australia's strong protest against the French atmospheric nuclear tests. At the same time our Ambassador to the Peoples Republic of China sat comfortably in Peking. What logic or rationality can there be for one Ambassador to remain in Australia in protest and the other to remain in China? We can assume only that the Government has no intention of going beyond making some mild protest to China. If it were dinkum, sincere and honest in its condemnation of nuclear tests then it would take the same action against any country that exploded nuclear weapons in the atmosphere. The Government's policy, to use the words of the Prime Minister, is monstrous, hypocritical and cowardly. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Government have any credibility left. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poyser)  adjourned. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am sure he will recall that on 29 August both  Senator Young  and I asked questions relating to a reported decision of the Prime Minister to ban visits by public servants to Taiwan even in a private capacity and that he undertook to ascertain the position. I now ask the Minister: Was a ban imposed? If so, why was it imposed? If any restrictions on travel exist, what are they? What other countries previously recognising Taiwan but now having diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China have placed restrictions on travel to Taiwan? 

 - Mr President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes.  Senator O  'Byrne- and I do not take him seriously- alleged that I and the other members of the Opposition supported nuclear war. I wish to make quite clear what I said, and therefore I shall quote from page 369 of Hansard of 30 August. I said then: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that the Opposition condemns all atmospheric nuclear testing wherever it is conducted and by whomever it is conducted. Our attitude was made clear when in Government; our attitude has been made clear in Opposition. The former Minister for Foreign Affairs, the honourable Nigel Bowen, led in the United Nations the condemnation of all atmospheric nuclear testing. We stand alongside any country in the world in our condemnation of these tests. 
That is my attitude, it is the attitude of the Opposition, and any allegation to the contrary is not only irresponsible but completely and utterly false, and the person who makes it should be condemned. 

 Senator O'BYRNE ( Tasmania )-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
No. 19. Atmospheric Nuclear Tests by China and France ... On the motion by  Senator Sim-  That the Senate deplores the Government's double standards in respect of atmospheric nuclear testing by China and France. 
TI hat was the motion to which I was speaking. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education whether he can provide me with the details required to enable an independent school to prepare an appeal against a decision by the Minister for Education to place it in category A. I speak on behalf of the Kobeelya Church of England Girls' School at Katanning which has been trying to obtain a reply from the Minister since 15 August. The Minister might take this matter up with the Minister for Education. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government of the People's Republic of China consider the effects of nuclear fall-out to be of little significance to health, or does it display a callous disregard for the health and welfare of its people. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. Is it a fact that the Government has asked industry not to take advantage of the conversion to the metric system in order to increase charges? As the Government has announced new postal charges with a limit of 20 grams or 0.7 oz on letters that now attract a 7c postage charge instead of 28 grams or 1 oz as previously, will the Minister refer these increases to the Metric Conversion Board for comment as to whether the Government is taking advantage of conversion to the metric system in order to increase charges? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. As the Government has now decided that no Australian, including members of Parliament, may travel to Taiwan on an official passport, I ask the Minister: To what other countries does this restriction apply? What action will the Government take against members of Parliament who defy this outrageous restriction of their rights? 
-in reply- In closing the debate I am bound to say that there is nothing to which I need reply. The Opposition has behaved in this debate as it has behaved in other debates. 
The Government is behaving in this debate as it has behaved in other debates. It is like the spoilt little boy with his cricket bat who takes it home and says: 'If you will not do as I want, I will not play with you. ' The Government has made no attempt to defend its position. Perhaps it realises that it is a waste of time to defend the indefensible. Perhaps that is the most charitable interpretation that we can put upon its actions in this debate. I wish to speak only briefly. We heard 3 speakers in this debate on behalf of the Government. Of  Senator O  'Byrne, my generosity leads me to say very little. Obviously, he did not know what he was talking about. He ranted and raved for some 30 minutes and then became all confused at the end about what the motion meant. I think that the motion is quite clear. But in  Senator 0  'Byrne's muddling way, obviously he did not understand simple English. The motion merely says: 
That the Senate deplores the Government's double standards in respect of atmospheric nuclear testing by China and France. 
I made it quite clear at the outset that we condemn both countries. But  Senator O'Byrne  started off, after giving us some historical dissertation for a few minutes - 
Yes, hysterical is probably a better word. He said: 'Yet here we are in 1973, after the experience in 194S of Nagasaki and Hiroshima, with people like  Senator Sim  who come into this Senate and try to justify the extension of this wicked, animal approach to the solution of man's problems.' I suggested to  Senator O'Byrne  that he try to quote one word I have ever said which indicated my support of atmospheric nuclear testing. He did not and he could not. I think that the most noteworthy fact is that from the Government side not one of the 3 speakers condemned the People's Republic of China specifically. 

 - Senator Mulvihill was one and  Senator Keeffe  of whom we take no notice whatever was the third one. Not one of you mentioned one word of condemnation of China. 
The honourable senator referred to it in general terms, but there was not one word that was specifically in condemnation of China. Not one word for  Senator O'Byrne  was - 
The honourable senator mentioned them in a general way. There was not one word of condemnation specifically of China. I challenge him to point out where he specifically condemned China in a manner equal to his condemnation of France. China was mentioned. There was a passing reference to it, and that was all. I believe that this proves the point we made. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  by his own statements which have been quoted by Opposition speakers in the debate, has condemned himself and condemned the Government. Honourable senators opposite by their failure to condemn China have condemned themselves. It is quite clear. 
I am not interested in Mick Young. He can stay there. Let us look at one quotation that I used and which  Senator Carrick  used again tonight. It is from the Melbourne Herald ' of 3 August. This in itself is the greatest condemnation of the Prime Minister and the Government. The headline reads: 
Monstrous Nuclear Tests: Prime Minister. 
He went on to say: 
The Australian Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  said today that France's nuclear testing program was more monstrous than China's. 
We say that they are equally monstrous. But if we were to look at degrees of what is more monstrous, then I suppose one could argue that the tests of China are more monstrous than those of France. China is exploding a dirtier bomb that affects more people. But we do not accept this. They are both equally monstrous. The Prime Minister condemns one more than the other. Then he goes on to agree in the article that he has used sterner language in regard to the French than he has used against the Chinese. Right through every statement that the Prime Minister has made we find condemnation of the French and excuses for the Chinese. 
I remind honourable senators of  Dr J.  F. Cairns visit to China when he said he took up with Chou En-lai the question of Chinese nuclear tests. Chou En-lai became somewhat irritated.  Dr Cairns  promptly ducked for cover. The final test is the trade ban against the French and the reception in this country given to the Chinese trade delegation. The members of that delegation were received by  Dr Cairns  and the Prime Minister as honoured guests. They signed a trade agreement with the Chinese. We can go through the matter step by step as we have done to prove the double standards of the Government. My final point relates to a matter raised by  Senator Carrick.  The Prime Minister is on record as having said that his excuse for the Chinese is that they are under threat. Yet we have had a statement from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  that the reason for dismantling our defence forces is that the global situation is stabilising and that there is detente among the major powers. The Government cannot have it both ways. If China is under threat, it is under threat from one country. That is Russia. If China is under threat no stable world situation will develop. I ask the Senate to vote on this motion. 
The Government has condemned itself out of its own mouth. It has failed to answer the charge in the motion before the Senate. Indeed, it is so demoralised and in such a state of despair that it made no attempt to defend itself. By putting this motion to a vote, we can show the feeling of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Why have restrictions been placed on Australians, including public servants, travelling to Taiwan. 
Which other countries that previously recognised Taiwan, but now have diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China, have placed restrictions on their nationals visiting Taiwan. 
Do such restrictions also apply to Members of Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State and refers to the previous questions I have asked concerning the Government's restriction on the use of official passports for travel to Taiwan. I ask: Will the Government withdraw my official passport if I use it for travel to Taiwan? 
-This debate on the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill is one of the most amazing debates that I have witnessed in the Senate. The Government has put this measure forward as being one of the greatest national importance. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  declared that it was a matter of urgency, yet for most of last Thursday and again tonight not one Government member has been prepared to defend this Bill. Not one member of the Government has been prepared to explain and answer the many queries which Opposition members have put forward. One can only imagine that Government supporters are so demoralised and in such a state of depair because of their own internal conflicts that they feel it is safer to remain seated and deny to themselves the right to speak. I say it is extraordinary that the Government is not prepared to debate a matter of such importance. Last week  Senator Carrick  raised some fairly vital questions. There is some query as to the definition of the word 'prices'. What does that word mean? At page 772 of Hansard  Senator Carrick  is reported as having asked these questions: 
Does the word 'prices' include dividends? Does it include rents? Does it include charges? Does it include the price of services? Does it include the price of work? These are matters about which it is imperative that the Government tell this Parliament if it expects any consideration of this measure. 
He then invited some member of the Government to tell us about these things. All we have had from the Government is silence. Quite obviously the Government is not prepared to tell us, and through us the people of Australia, or it does not know what that word means. 
The honourable senator interjects. He has the chance to get up and tell us instead of sitting there like a dumb cluck. Stand up and tell us instead of just sitting there. It is no use just interjecting. We have had many speeches by way of interjections but no Government supporter has been prepared to get up and make a speech. Let us have the Government's views in a speech, not by way of stupid interjections.  Senator O'Byrne  talks about gabbling but let him stand up and do a bit of gabbling himself. I admit that there are arguments about whether any long term power over prices and incomes should reside with a national parliament. There are differing views on this question. Let me make it quite clear that I certainly would not agree to giving any further powers to a Government such as this which has shown itself to be incompetent in managing the economy and to a Prime Minister who has shown quite clearly his inability to understand economics or even to lead his Party. This mad gallop by the Government towards centralising all powers has to be stopped. I believe that if this Bill passes the Senate the people of Australia will indicate clearly that they are not prepared to give any further powers to a government such as we have today. Leadership of the Government is surrounded by confusion. Its leadership is indecisive. There is a lack of precision, fumbling and irresponsibility. 
What I have said is illustrated in many ways and I invite the Senate to consider briefly one example. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that there would be an increase in interest rates. Leaving aside for the moment the decision of Caucus to override the Prime Minister, for days and, indeed, for weeks the whole of the financial and business world of Australia was in confusion. It did not know whether in fact interest rates would rise or, if they did, by how much. The whole of the finance and business world of Australia was left in confusion by the indecisiveness and lack of leadership of this Government. Indeed, the confusion caused by the Government's indecisiveness has been so great that the Prime Minister has lost credibility not only within his own Party but also within the Australian community. 
We are the first to admit that inflation and its effects upon the people of Australia are of the utmost and the gravest importance. We recognise that inflation is a world wide trend. It has been evident for many years. Yet despite that trend the much maligned previous governments of Australia maintained a rate of inflation below that of any other developed country, and in spite of all the external pressures. The present Government took office in a period in which Treasury has stated there was a downward trend in prices. That was in November-December of last year. But because of the Government's reckless management of the economy inflation today is out of hand. It is rising at a rate of 1 2 per cent to 13 per cent per annum. There are many reasons for this rise. One, of course, is the tremendous increase of some 18.9 per cent in public spending, together with a vicious attack on the productive, mining, business and rural sectors of the economy. Indeed, the whole of industry generally has been attacked. 

 Senator Carrick, in his speech in the Budget debate, outlined 6 points which have had a major effect on the present rate of inflation. He referred to the great increase in indirect taxation, the alarming increase in the growth of the Public Service which is the non-productive area of the economy, and reduced migration which has encouraged unrestrained demands for wage increases. Despite the boasting of the Labor Party prior to the election that it could handle the trade unions, industrial unrest is at an all time high. It has never been higher. One can only be amused at  Senator Bishop's  wriggling when he was challenged on this point today. He referred to the failure of the Opposition in the Senate to pass the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. He was challenged on his statement that all of the strikes which are taking place today are the result of that Bill not being passed. Of course, he wriggled and dodged and would not answer the challenge. The only strike he referred to specifically involved a demarcation dispute on the wharves some time ago. The fact is that the industrial disputes which are disrupting New South Wales as well as the air transport of Australia have nothing whatever to do with the passing of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. Industrial lawlessness has been encouraged by this Government. Finally comes the whole question of interest rates. 
Until the Government starts to preach that one of the major factors to combat inflation is increased productivity and until it starts to attack this problem instead of encouraging lower productivity we can never hope to overcome this problem. Essential production is being discouraged. The mining industry in Australia, which is one of the great export income earning industries, is being threatened by the extraordinary and stupid policies of the so-called Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  There is in the community today a lack of confidence, and this situation has not been helped by the vicious attack made in South Australia during the weekend by the Prime Minister on the finance and business community. There is general confusion within the community in relation to the Government's policies. Indeed, according to the Leader of the Government in the Senate this legislation will provide the whole solution to the problem, because he tried to declare it urgent so that it would be passed quickly. 
Recently the Prime Minister himself cast doubts on the effectiveness of price control. With that we agree. The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  advocated a temporary freeze- I think a 90-day freeze- on prices and incomes. He proposed that the Prime Minister- he offered to lend his goodwill to this proposal- should meet with the State Premiers to seek their co-operation in having their powers in relation to prices referred to the Commonwealth for a limited period. The Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria responded and said that providing certain conditions were met and certain undertakings were given they were prepared to discuss this matter with the Prime Minister. Of course, there was no response from the Prime Minister because he was not interested in this proposal. He was interested only in centralised power. 
We recognise that the problem today is so great that immediate action is required, and the immediate action required is the calling of a conference with the State Premiers to seek a referral of their powers on prices. If they agree to this proposal and if the Prime Minister is less arrogant and less dominating, providing certain conditions are met and certain undertakings are given, I have no doubt that these powers will be referred to the Commonwealth for a limited period so that the Commonwealth can act immediately. Under this legislation the Commonwealth cannot act immediately. If the legislation is passed a referendum cannot be held until December at the earliest. One would imagine that the legislation would not be effective until perhaps January or even February. So some four or five months would elapse before the Government could take action and in that time the situation could worsen considerably and could well get out of hand. The Prime Minister should be honest in relation to this matter. Surely he will agree that immediate action is needed. Such immediate action can be obtained by the Premiers agreeing to refer their powers to the Commonwealth. It is rather interesting that the Leader of the Opposition has proposed a 90-day freeze. This proposition is supported, as  Senator Carrick  mentioned, by no less an authority than  Sir Roland  Wilson who is a former Secretary of the Treasury. He has pointed out the dangers of too long an interference with the price mechanism. He is reported today in the Press of Australia as saying that direct controls might be effective for limited periods. This is what the Leader of the Opposition proposed. He proposed that there should be controls for a limited period to enable more substantial measures to be taken.  Sir Roland  Wilson is reported to have said further that there were dangers in too great or too prolonged an interference with normal market mechanisms. He continued, and I think he is being optimistic: 
This appears to be recognised by all political parties. 
He said: 
Distortions and inefficiencies in the allocation of resources could easily result from continued efforts to control prices and incomes. This could give rise to a situation in which innovation, enterprise and effort could be stultified. 
In other words,  Sir Roland  believes there is merit only in limited control for a limited period. This is exactly the policy which the Opposition through its Leader has put forward. Let us look at the extraordinary situation in which the Government has been placed. The sequence of events is this: Firstly, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  dismissed the effectiveness of price control. Then  Mr Hawke  came up to see him and the very next day the Prime Minister announced that he would be moving legislation for a referendum to control prices, and he gave the Australian Parliament and the people of Australia an assurance from  Mr Hawke  that if these controls were successful the unions would exercise wage restraint. But  Mr Hawke  soon dismissed this, because  Mr Hawke  said he had given no such assurance, and, in a moment of sarcasm, he said he could no more control the trade unions than the Prime Minister could control his Caucus. So one or the other was telling an untruth. The Prime Minister at his Press conference refused to comment any further on it- and I will come to that in moment.  Mr Whitlam  was asked in the House of Representatives by the Leader of the Opposition a question concerning  Mr Hawke  's assurance and his reply was very interesting, because having given  Mr Hawke  's assurance, he now started to double-track. He said: 
There was no discussion on this. It was only a passing reference. 
It seems extraordinary that a Prime Minister would give an assurance based on a passing reference. So the mystery remains. But he was then asked by the Leader of the Opposition whether he would accept the offer if the States were prepared to refer powers for a limited period so that the Commonwealth could legislate on prices and incomes, and  Mr Whitlam  replied- and this is obviously on off-the-cuff comment, which is even more extraordinary for a Prime Minister- as reported at page 1 128 of the House of Representatives Hansard: 
I will certainly accept on behalf of the Government any reference of powers by the States. To be precise, I would accept a reference of powers over prices and incomes or prices alone. 
He accepted this on behalf of the Government. Then, as we know, he went to the Caucus- and the rest is history; by 45 votes to 42 Caucus overthrew him. So he had to come back and eat humble pie. Now we have legislation for prices alone despite the fact that the Prime Minister did not believe in it, did not believe it would be effective. Not only does the Prime Minister not believe it to be effective but the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  also does not believe it to be effective. Unfortunately he is out of the country, otherwise he might teach  Mr Whitlam  and the Labor Caucus some economic common sense. In a speech on 22 February  Dr Cairns  said this: 
Wage control without price control is contrary to common sense, a distortion of justice - 
That is interesting, a distortion of justice - and an inevitable cause of conflict and a deep sense of grievance. 
That is the view of the No. 3 in the Ministry,  Dr Cairns.  He went on to say- and I will not quote him in full- that in his view there was no doubt that the Commonwealth Government had power to do this, and he criticised the former Government for avoiding doing it because it said it lacked the constitutional power to do it. So we have  Dr Cairns  making his position quite clearand I invite the Minister at the table  (Senator Cavanagh)  to dispute what  Dr Cairns  said. 

 - Senator Cavanagh has a chance to do it, to dispute what  Dr Cairns  said. 
Well, if  Senator Cavanagh  says that  Dr Cairns  was correct, then he is wrong now, because  Dr Cairns  not only said that it was contrary to common sense but also- and this should strike a chord in  Senator Cavanagh  's heart- that it was a distortion of justice and an inevitable cause of conflict and a deep sense of grievance. So the Government has to answer that one. Obviously a number of members of the Government Caucus agree with  Dr Cairns  but they are in a minority. The 'Australian', which one cannot argue has been a friend of the Opposition partiesindeed, it has been one of the greatest supporters of the present Government both prior to 2 December and since- is obviously becoming very disillusioned with this Government and particularly with the antics of the Prime Minister be* cause a leader in the 'Australian' of 19 September was headlined: 'PM Cant Wriggle Off Hook'. The editorial began thus: 
It was embarrassing to see the nation's Prime Minister squirming as  Mr Whitlam  had to at yesterday's Press conference  . . 

 Mr Whitlam was squirming for 2 reasons: the invidious position in which his own Party has put him and what can now be seen as the unsure way he has handled this position. 
First there is the business of  Mr R.  J. Hawke. Late last week, stuck with a price control referendum bill he didn't want . . . 
And now we are told it is an urgent measure-  . .  Mr Whitlam  gave an assurance both as Prime Minister and spiritual head - 
That is interesting- of the union movement that, if price control proved effective, the unions would act voluntarily to restrain or moderate wage demands. 
At the weekend it emerged that this assurance was based on a Wednesday night conversation with  Mr Hawke  . . . 
And  Mr Hawke,  feeling some hot breath down his neck, on the Monday- denied that he had promised anything in that conversation.  Mr Hawke  observed, with typical but telling sarcasm - 
That is good stuff- that he could not deliver the ACTU any more than  Mr Whitlam  could deliver the Parliamentary Caucus. 

 Mr Hawke 's renunciation came after  Mr Whitlam  had told Parliament that  Mr Hawke  's assurance of wage-restraint cooperation had come that Wednesday night in 'a passing reference'. 
A passing reference! 
The Press was naturally agog yesterday with  Mr Whitlam  's relationship with  Mr Hawke,  who is, after all,  president  of the Labor Party as well as the ACTU. But  Mr Whitlam  wouldand, indeed, could-only say: 'I have nothing to add to what I said yesterday.' 
So here we have the situation in which a socalled Prime Minister gave an assurance to the Parliament that the trade unions would cooperatean assurance given at the same time by the  President  of the ACTU, who is also the  President  of the Labor Party- and the next day having to eat humble pie and crawl. This has led, of course, to other comments. The leading article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of Thursday, 20 September 1 973, was headed: ' Whitlam 's failure in leadership'. The article pointed out that the great Labor leaders of the past, such as  Mr Curtin  and  Mr Chifley,  were able to control their Caucus. I am looking around the chamber at the few odd members of the Labor Caucus who are interested in this debate on a measure of such great urgency. We are very critical of the present Prime Minister's complete inability to control Caucus. The article stated: 
The plain fact is that  Mr Whitlam  is failing lamentably to carry his Party with him- the essential criterion of the leadership shown by  Mr Curtin  and  Mr Chifley-  and, so failing, must seriously damage public confidence in his ability to formulate and implement coherent and consistent policies. If he cannot manage his own party, how can he expect to sustain confidence that he can manage the economy? 
The article then went on to criticise  Mr Whitlam  's claim that he is simply the victim of his Party's democratic instincts. The article stated: 
The attitudes he himself has struck this month over prices powers, incomes powers and a prices and incomes policy have been variously devious, wavering or obscure. 
What more damning indictment could editorials appearing in the 'Australian ' and 'Sydney Morning Herald' newspapers give of a Prime Minister than that? 
The Prime Minister reminds me of the famous Duke of Plaza Toro- who led his army from the rear. The Prime Minister never made any attempt, according to the leaks in the Caucus, to put his view last week. No longer does he lead from the front; he now leads from the rear. No doubt he is frightened to be out in front because there may well be a rusty knife put in his back. The plain facts are that if the Government is really concerned about prices, the quickest and the most effective means of dealing with this problem is to call a conference of State Premiers and to put the facts before them plainly and simply. We already have had an assurance that the Premiers will listen. But they will not listen to arrogance. They will not listen to a Prime Minister, who, frustrated by his own inability to carry his Party, wishes to override them. What the Prime Minister should try to achieve is cooperation. If he has this he will achieve these powers not in 4 or 5 months time but very much sooner. As  Senator Carrick  mentioned the Prime Minister should call a conference of the business, financial and industrial communities of Australia to discuss this matter. The Prime Minister has made no attempt to do this and to seek their cooperation. All he has done is to attack them in a most vicious manner. What we want is not arrogance but co-operation- if you like, a cooperative federalism. 
The plain fact is that the Premiers do not trust the Prime Minister. I speak here not only of the Liberal or Country Party Premiers but of the Labor Premiers. If we take note of the increasing criticism of the Federal Government being made by the Labor Premiers, particularly by the Premier of Western Australia, we can take it that they no longer trust the Prime Minister of Australia. Why should they trust him when he has failed so miserably to control his own Ministers who shoot off on all sorts of tangents. Presumably the Ministers reach some decision in Cabinet. They go into Caucus and one of the Ministers who has taken part in the Cabinet discussions and decisions moves a motion of disagreement with the Cabinet decision. The Ministers are careering in all directions. Perhaps, as someone has suggested, the Prime Minister should stay at home and try to exercise some discipline over his Ministers and his Party. There is no acceptance of ministerial responsibility or ministerial solidarity. Such a Government has forfeited the right and the confidence of both the Parliament and the people. This would be shown if the legislation before us were passed because I believe that the people of Australia would show at a referendum that they would not trust this Government to exercise this responsibility. 
One of the greatest frauds that this Government has tried to put over the people is the claim that if this legislation is passed the Government will control the prices at Christmas. 
By way of interjection  Senator Cavanagh  said: 'Hear, hear.' A referendum on this matter could be held at the earliest on 1 December. By that time more than half of the Christmas shopping will already have been finished. If one liked to be very kind to the Government one would have to say that the earliest that legislation could be introduced would be by the middle of December. But this is unlikely; it is more likely to be in January when Christmas shopping will be finished and when Parliament would have to be recalled to pass the legislation. 
Perhaps the Government means next Christmas. As  Senator DrakeBrockman  has said, the Government would not know whether it is this Christmas, next Christmas or the Christmas after that. What the Government has done is to invite every section of industry to raise prices before Christmas under the threat that price control will be exercised regardless of the economic circumstances of industry. The Government has invited them to charge the housewife more for her Christmas presents. The Government knows that this is what is happening. It knows that what it is putting forward is a fraud because it has no hope whatever of controlling prices before Christmas. If there are increases in prices before Christmas they will be the result of the Government's own irresponsibility. 
Opposition senators oppose the legislation because we believe that it will be completely ineffective. We oppose it because we believe that the people of Australia do not want the Senate to give powers to this power drunk Government that wants to centralise all powers in Canberra, powers that it has shown quite clearly that it is incapable of exercising. Therefore the Opposition will vote against this legislation. It will vote against whatever form the Government wishes to adopt to amend the legislation. As I said, we believe that this legislation is ineffective and we are not prepared to give power to a power drunk and incompetent Government led by an incompetent Prime Minister who cannot even control his own Party. That being so, how can he control a country. 
My question is directed to the Special- Minister of State and follows the question asked by  Senator Drake-Brockman  about the unfortunate Taiwanese fishermen who were arrested in Perth for fishing offences. I ask the Minister: Who looks after the interests of Taiwanese citizens in Australia who find themselves in these unfortunate circumstances? 
I think that the last words of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  contain the only assurance that we can obtain from his statement. He said that in the later years of the Labor Government it will expand our defence forces. I say that the Minister did the best he could with a bad situation. I have the greatest personal respect for him but I am afraid that he failed completely to answer the charge that the Government is running our defence forces down to a serious degree. If I were to take a text for this debate, I would take the words used by  Mr Barnard,  the Minister for Defence, in a major election address to the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre of the Australian National University in March of last year. He said: 
Any Government that shows it lacked interest in defence or sought to cut back sharply on defence or even dismantle pan of the defence structure would not be the Government of this country for very long. 
This statement by  Mr Barnard  may well prove to be prophetic because he has done all those things. Today in the military forces we have a new term, a term of derision and contemptBarnardisation'. This term is used widely in the defence forces today as a term of contempt and derision at the actions of the Minister for Defence and the Government. 
The military forces- the troops themselves- who are not bad at coining phrases. Despite what the Minister has said, the result of the Government's policy has been a lowering of morale. This can be proved easily by a statement made by none other than  Major Young  who, I understand, is a member of the Labor Party and a member of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of that Party. 
I am quoting only what he is supposed to have said. He was speaking on an ATN Channel 7 broadcast and said that the Labor Government had misjudged very badly Australia's defence arrangements and that if Army morale was not at rock bottom 'it's about two inches off it'. That is a view of a member of the Labor Party, as reported. I know of no contradiction by  Major Young  of that statement. The efficiency of our military forces has been destroyed. It is not my intention tonight to go through the various measures that have been taken by this Government which have destroyed the efficiency and morale of our defence forces. No doubt, my colleagues will do this. We can no longer say that our defence forces are credible. Following upon the so-called defence statement made by the Minister for Defence, the Government has continued with all sorts of ad hoc decisions, almost day by day, to dismantle further our defence forces. 
When we hear about the encouragement of a voluntary defence force I am reminded of the Government's reported decision to dismantle the university air squadron, a volunteer force made up of members from Australian universities. A number of officers have been trained within this squadron to defend Australia should the need arise. The Government takes great comfort in the belief that there exists no discernible threat for a period of 10 to 15 years. I acknowledge that the Minister said there is no certainty in this. I want to deal with the uncertainty of this type of prediction. If the lessons of history mean anything to us, they have destroyed completely these long term predictions in regard to threat. I am reminded that in June or July of 1914  Mr Lloyd  George said that the international situation had never appeared brighter. In a month or 6 weeks from that time we were plunged into the First World War. After the Munich conference,  Mr Curtin-  I do not criticise him for this but it is a fact of life- said words to the effect that there was no longer a threat of war and any expenditure on defence forces was hysterical. 
I am quoting the lessons of history. In 1932 no one believed that an Austrian corporal named Hitler would, in 7 years, plunge the world into one of the most horrible wars of history. From the early 1930s onwards the warning of Churchill went unheeded by all governments including the Conservative Government in Great Britain under  Mr Baldwin,  who was then its Prime Minister. Churchill was regarded as a madman. 
I do not shrink from this. They were ignored by all governments including the Australian governments. It only proves my point further. It is that no one can make these judgments with any degree of certainty. History, regardless of politics, proves this quite conclusively. I would think that this is an obvious warning to us. Our defence forces may become depleted to an extent where they no longer have credibility. We could lose many experienced officers who take 15 or 20 years to train. There is evidence of an increasing number of resignations amongst officers. There is evidence of an increasing number of resignations amongst senior noncommissioned officers who take 10 or 1 5 years to train. If we are confronted with a crisis, either suddenly or with little warning, these people cannot be replaced. I accept the comments of  Senator Devitt  and  Senator McAuliffe  about what happened in 1939. We would be faced, in the situation I have referred to, with what we faced in 1939 when our defence forces were sent into action untrained and ill-equipped. Surely that is a lesson of history which we should not forget. Unfortunately the truth is that we never learn from history. I believe it is time we did so. 
I want to refer to equipment. It is very easy to say that as there is no discernible threat our equipment should be allowed to run down. But it takes 5, 10 or 15 years to re-equip forces with the sophisticated modern equipment needed today from the time the decision is made to order to the time it is delivered. This delay seriously reduces the safety limit that is required.  I  am not suggesting that our defence forces should be extraordinarily large but they should be capable of rapid growth should the occasion arise- and one hopes that it never will arise. 
I invite the Senate to look at the premises upon which the Government bases its assessment that no discernible threat is apparent for 10 or 15 years. I say that that is an assessment which is based on unwarranted optimism. The Minister for Repatriation and the Minister for Defence have said that we are now approaching a situation of global detente or that in fact such a situation has been reached. They say that South East Asia is reaching a period of stabilization. I only wish that were so. I suggest that this is not only an unwarranted optimism but it is also a dangerous assumption which is not based upon facts. True it is that it appears that the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics have reached a degree of co-operation and understanding that did not exist previously. It is true also that there has been some measure of understanding reached between the United States of America and China. I think we all greet these things. We recognise the situation and we are pleased that it has happened. 
But these understandings are by no means complete. There are major areas of disagreement still to be settled. There are major areas of uncertainty. It is also true that it can be argued- I am not sure how completely- that there is a new balance of power; a quadrilateral of power or a trapezium of power or a multipolar world. It has all sorts of names. This has developed in place of the former bi-polar system involving the United States of America and the Soviet Union. I accept the view that there is safety in a balance of power between various groupings but how safe is it? The new balances are far from clear. The balance between the United States, China, the Soviet Union and Japan- the quadrilateral in our region- is far from clear. No one knows how this balance eventually will work out. Relations between Japan and the Soviet Union are bedevilled by great differences over the return of the islands north of Japan. Only today it was reported that the Prime Minister of Japan,  Mr Tanaka,  left for a tour of Europe and the Soviet Union. It was reported that he may reach agreement with the Soviet Union over the return of the northern islands- this was disputed in other reports- in return for Japanese investment for the development of Siberia. If these things happen how will they affect relations between Japan and China? How will the balance of power be affected? This is yet uncertain. On the other hand, if Japan cannot reach agreement with the Soviet Union will Japan reach agreement with China? How would that situation affect the balance of power between the major powers? 
Overshadowing all these things is the relationship between Russia and China. There are reports- I think this was mentioned by  Senator McManus-  that there are between 44 and 49 Russian divisions along the border between China and the Soviet Union and that they are faced by an equivalent number of Chinese divisions. That means that well over 2 million troops are facing each other. It is reported also that a significant proportion of the Russian nuclear deterrent as well as a significant part of its air power is facing China. I accept the view- I only hope it is true- that it is unlikely that there will be a major conflict between Russia and China. I do not believe that such a conflict could be isolated. It would affect the whole world. Such a conflict is unlikely but it cannot be ruled out. No one knows what is in the minds of the men in the Kremlin. I believe that today there is greater fear, in China of Russia than there is of China in Russia; I believe that the Chinese fear the Russians more than the Russians fear the Chinese in the short term. However, it may well be that the Russians believe that China may well threaten them in future. One cannot ignore the possibility of a pre-emptive strike. Such a possibility was very real in the minds of many people a few years ago. I think that now it is receding but it nevertheless still exists. 
I hope that we do not buy into it. All I say is that it is difficult to believe that such a conflict between those 2 countries could be contained. One hopes that such a conflict will never happen and I believe it is unlikely but the danger is there and it could happen. That possibility does threaten the stability of the world; that cannot be denied. I am referring to these matters very briefly because of the time factor involved in this debate. It cannot be argued that there is a detente between the main powers. I could deal more fully with these possibilities. Today the chance of instability between the major powers is as great as the chance of stability. Until this problem is solved it cannot be argued, as is argued apparently by the Minister for Repatriation, that there is a detente between the major powers. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I raise briefly the question of 2 Taiwanese fishing captains who have been arrested and placed in gaol in Western Australia. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  to the plight of these unfortunate men. Their 2 ships were arrested off the coast of Western Australia some time ago by a naval vessel and the captains were charged with illegal fishing in Australian waters. They were conficated and a fine of $4,000 was imposed upon them, and the vessels valued at $40,000 each were confiscated. An appeal has been lodged against both the conviction and the sentence but because of the great delay involved in the case and the necessity for the hearings to take their turn it is unlikely, as I understand it, that the appeals will be heard before the middle of November. 
We have before us the plight of 2 men who cannot speak English, who have no money and no clothing, who are bewildered and frightened in a strange country, who have no means whatever of paying the fines and who have been arrested on the orders of someone and placed in gaol. There is no possibility of these 2 unfortunate men paying $4,000 unless it is raised by the local Chinese community or by public subscription in Western Australia. I understand that while they are legally responsible for the fines, the shipping company did undertake the responsibility. The latest reports indicate that the company is bankrupt as a result of the seizure of its ships. In any case we no longer have any relations with Taiwan and there are no legal means of obtaining this money from Taiwan. So these 2 unfortunate men are being held in custody and may be held for several months. If the appeal is successful they will then, of course, be free. If the sentence is reduced and if the fines are paid the Commonwealth Government will have to refund some of the fines. The men cannot leave Australia, they cannot do any harm, yet today they are languishing in gaol and are likely to remain there for at least 2 months, bewildered and frightened, with no warm clothing in a strange country. 
I do not know who gave the instruction. I am sure, knowing the humanity and the sense of decency of the Minister, that he did not. I can only appeal to the Minister in the name of humanity and common decency for the release of these men. I do not quarrel about the arrest of foreign vessels fishing in Australian waters; of course, the waters must be protected. But only the other day many Indonesian boats were apprehended while fishing inside Australian territorial waters. A naval vessel escorted them outside territorial waters and let them go. Apparently the rule is that if 100 vessels are fishing it is considered that there are too many to handle so they are escorted out and let go, but if there are only 2 vessels they are arrested. There does seem to be a matter there that requires some cleaning up. 
An article in today's 'West Australian' newspaper quoted  Mr Stephen  Chew, the legal counsel of the Taiwanese- I think this should touch the hearts of any of us with any sense of humanity- as saying: 
They are very miserable. 
The article continued: 
One of them burst into tears when he saw me. They don't speak English, they have no warm clothing and the food is totally different. 
I think all of us would appreciate and understand this. The article went on to state: 
They have no hope of paying the fines themselves. It is too much to expect Penh's small Chinese community to raise such a large sum, so this calls for virtual sympathy from the Australian community. 
I believe that Australians, with their innate sense of decency and humanity would respond to this. But why should they? The article continued: 

 Mr Chew said that the Commonwealth's action in ordering the men 's arrest seemed to serve no useful purpose. 
He had tried to find out the motives for the action, but all that the Commonwealth representatives in Penh would tell him was that they were carrying out instructions. 
The people who gave these orders are far away, and not in touch with the issues', he said. 
They can't appreciate the plight of these men'. 
I am quite sure that everyone in the Senate would echo the sentiments of  Mr Chew.  The West Australian' newspaper of today was so moved as to write a sub-editorial headed 'Gaoled Skippers '. I do not intend to read the article in full. However, I think that one or two comments are worth repeating. The article stated: 
The Federal Government appears to be going to extraordinary lengths to extract its pound of flesh from the two Taiwanese trawler skippers convicted in Penh on August 29 of fishing illegally in Australian waters. 
The article then deals with the confiscation of the boats and the fines and states that the fishermen face 1 2 months in goal. The article states: 
It is hard to believe that the Commonwealth expects the skippersmarried men with families to SUPport-to pay the fines out of their own pockets. Nor can it believe that gaoling the men is necessary to discourage others from entering our waters. 
Further on the article states: 
When they return to Taiwan - 
And we know this to be true-  the 2 men face the prospect of losing their skippers' licences and further court action. 
I appeal to the Minister in the name of decency and humanity and for Australia's good name throughout Asia to see that these men are released from gaol immediately. They should be released at least until the appeal is heard and the court makes it final decision on this matter. I understand that the Court did not indicate a time in which the fine was to be paid and therefore I think it is a matter of administration to allow leniency in this case. I am told by my legal friends that it is most unusual for persons convicted and fined to be imprisoned without being given a reasonable time to pay. 
This is a most unsual case in the judgement of legal people in this Parliament. The 'West Australian' newspaper comments that if these men came from mainland China perhaps the situation would be different. I am not appealing on any political grounds despite my friendship and sympathy with Taiwan. I am merely appealing in the name of decency and humanity that these frightened bewildered men should be released from gaol. If the Government is not prepared to remit the fines and allow them to return home to their families whom they have not seen for many months because they are being held in AustraliaI think it would not be beyond the bounds of reasonableness for the Commonwealth to do this- at least it should let them out of gaol and allow them to lead ordinary lives among their own community, which has been looking after them. The Australian community generally has seen fit to befriend them and help them. I appeal to the Minister because I know his sense of decency and his sense of humanity. For God 's sake, get those men out of gaol immediately. 
My question is directed to either the Attorney-General or the Minister for Primary Industry, whoever is responsible. Who authorised a warrant of commitment for nonpayment of fines to be taken out, resulting in the 2 Taiwanese fishermen being imprisoned? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the report correct that no official representative from Australia attended the recent conference on business opportunities in the Pacific which was held in Singapore? Is it a fact that official representatives attended from all other countries in the region? If the report is correct, why was Australia not officially represented? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. At the risk of being accused of engaging in emotionalism I refer to the Minister's statement yesterday in reply to a question by  Senator Drake-Brockman  in which he said that the decision to gaol the 2 Taiwanese fishermen was a decision of the Perth District Court. Did the Minister advise me on 27 September that a warrant of committal was issued by an officer of his Department? Therefore is not the gaoling the Minister's responsibility? Why was the warrant of committal issued when appeals against both the convictions and sentences have been lodged and are awaiting hearing? Did the Minister have any information that suggested that the 2 captains were about to leave Australia? If so, what was the information? 
I support the amendment to be moved by  Senator Drake-Brockman.  I wish to speak only briefly to state that I think this is another example of the Government's attitude to those who live away from urban areas. The provisions in the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act relating to the price differential was introduced by the previous Government to try to assist those who live farthest away from the capital cities. This applies not only to those who live on the land but also affects those who wish to establish industries in the country. In my view, the Government's action of reducing the subsidy is inexcusable. It is a further indication of the Government's contempt for and hostility to those who live away from the established urban areas where the Government hopes to receive its support. I think that it should be noted by all who live away from the heavily populated areas that this action is another indication of the Government's attack upon them. This subsidy has been valuable in many outback areas of Australia. I might add that it has been a very valuable measure in the far distant areas of Western Australia. I wish only to put on record my strong opposition to the Government's move by which it will save a few measly million dollars. Yet the Government is prepared to spend hundreds of millions of dollars in the urban areas at the expense of country areas. I just wish to place on record my view about this. I only wish that we could throw the confounded thing out as an indication of our contempt for what this Government is doing to those who live in the country, and particularly those who live in the distant parts of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As he has expressed his continuing concern about Croatian terrorism in Australia, has his attention been drawn to the reported threat by an Arab resident in Australia, one  Mr Alittat,  that Palestinian terrorists will strike against Australiawhich action will have his support- if Australians support the Israeli cause? If the report be confirmed as being correct, what action will the Government take against this gentleman? Will the Minister give a complete assurance that the Australian Government will not surrender to blackmail by Arab terrorists? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the question that I asked last Thursday concerning the reported statement by a  Mr Alittat  supporting Arab terrorism in Australia, particularly if Australians support the Israeli cause. Has the Minister checked the accuracy of the report? If it is accurate, what action is the Government taking against this man? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the extraordinary statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, which appears at page 2056 of the House of Representatives Hansard of yesterday's date, and which has just been quoted by  Senator Carrick,  that  Mr Pai,  the Minister for Foreign Trade of the People 's Republic of China, stated that the People 's Republic of China would sign a wheat agreement for 3 years only in case there was a change of government in Australia. Is it a fact that the formula for the recognition of the People's Republic of China contained an undertaking of non-interference in each other's affairs? If so, does the Government regard the statement by  Mr Pai  as a breach of that undertaking and as a flagrant and arrogant interference in the internal affairs of Australia? If it does not, does it regard the attitude of  Mr Pai  as a normal condition applying to trade agreements between countries? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this place. Will the Minister table the dispatches sent to Australia by the Australian Ambassador to Chile covering events relating to the overthrow of the Allende Government? Will the Minister request the Minister for Foreign Affairs to allow the Ambassador to brief the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on events in Chile? 
In directing a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I refer to the strong denunciation by the Australian representative at the United Nations of countries that continue to trade with Rhodesia in defiance of the United Nations resolutions. Will the Prime Minister on his forthcoming visit to the People's Republic of China raise with the Government of that country the repeated reports that China is a significant purchaser of Rhodesian chrome? Further, will the Government raise in the United Nations the question of eastern European trade with Rhodesia, in particular in Czechoslovakian glassware? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the report correct that no official representative from Australia attended the recent conference on business opportunities in the Pacific which was held in Singapore. 
Is it a fact that official representatives attended from all other countries in the region and why was Australia not officially represented. 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a recommendation by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in its report on Japan that machinery be established for consultation between the Government and industry prior to the next meeting of the Australia-Japan Ministerial Committee. As such a meeting is to take place within a few days I ask the Minister: Has this been done? Has there been consultation between the Government and industry? If not, why not? 
I start where  Senator Willesee  ended and add the tribute of the Opposition to  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre whose skilled diplomacy no doubt was a major influence in the United Nations. I am quite sure that the Opposition would wish me to state that. On behalf of the Liberal and Country Party Opposition I have circulated a foreshadowed amendment. I do not think that it differs in substance a great deal from that of the Government. It differs mainly in emphasis. I also agree with the Special Minister of State,  Senator Willesee,  when he says that this is not the time for recriminations and the apportionment of blame, beyond making a general comment: We all recognise and accept that we have the possibility of a cease fire. We accept the statement of  Senator Willesee  that we cannot expect a cease fire in the situation that exists to be enforced immediately. We only hope that it will be enforced. 
The amendment which I have circulated reflects the present position. The motion which was moved by  Senator Kane  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party reflected the position that existed some weeks ago. That same position does not exist today. We noted that both the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and the  Deputy  Leader made reference to the situation in the Middle East having within it all the possibilities of a world war. Indeed, it had. A miscalculation by either of the great powers involved- the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics- could easily have brought about a world war. It may well have been that, in the situation we have faced over the past several weeks, the unfortunate and unsettled domestic situation in the United States could have brought about a miscalculation. We have to be thankful that it did not. Therefore, today we face a situation in which there is- I do not think it is too strong a term to use- an unstable cease fire at the moment. 
As  Senator Willesee  said, the situation represents hope. We must all be optimistic. One of the great hopeful signs in the long term is that the Arabs no longer smart under humiliating defeat. Perhaps today we have a military stalemate. From that may well develop the willingness on both sides to reach an agreement. But we cannot expect that the years of bitterness and dispute can be solved in a matter of days, weeks or months. The Middle East- I think that  Senator Willesee  spoke of this- is one of the world 's most unstable but vital areas. I do not wish to pursue this debate by speaking on the general instability of the Middle East and the reasons for its instability. But I mention that there is an increasing nationalism amongst the Arab countries and indications of increasing strong-arm oil diplomacy being exercised by these countries in pursuit of political ambitions. This in itself must create instability. 
We recognise that one-third of the world 's oil is produced in the Middle East and two-thirds of the world 's oil reserves are in the Middle East. One can imagine how those countries will try to exercise their oil strength, if I may use that phrase, to bring pressure to bear on the United States of America to cease support for Israel. This will be done indirectly because America, I think, is dependent for only 8 per cent of her oil requirements at the moment on the Middle East. But Japan is dependent for 90 per cent of her requirements and Europe for some 50 or 60 per cent of its requirements on this area. Therefore, there was some element of strong-arm oil diplomacy in pursuit of political objectives. We must recognise this in itself as being a pretty dangerous policy. We can hope only that the Arab powers will not continue to threaten instability and world stability by pursuing this type of policy. 
The second reason why I think that this is a matter of immediate concern is the existence and the integrity of the state of Israel. We wish in our amendment to express on behalf of the Opposition clearly the view that Israel exists as a state and her existence must be recognised. I recognise that the Government has said this. We would wish the Senate to express it in clear unequivocal terms. But we believe that the existence of Israel, the recognition of her existence as a state and the instability brought about by the Arab states engaging in strong-arm oil diplomacy cannot be divorced one from the other. Perhaps I should also mention before dealing more specifically with the amendment the strategic importance of the Middle East to the world. It sits astride almost the whole of the communications between Europe and this part of the world. One should also mention the political uncertainty that exists in the Middle East and particularly in the Persian Gulf area where there exists between the Arab states long standing disputes over borders and jurisdiction. 
One should recognise also that internal changes are taking place in these countries. They are moving away from the strong conservative rule of the past. As the people become more subject to outside pressures and their new wealth is bringing more affluence to them we find that this is not increasing the internal political stability of the countries but is creating internal political instability. We have had a number of examples of this during recent times. The issues that divide the Arab world are almost as great as the issues that unite it. Of course, one issue that unites it is its opposition to and hatred for the state of Israel. The realities of life make it inevitable that the State of Israel exists. Before there can be an enduring peace and stability in the Middle East that fact must be accepted. We believe that this is a cardinal factor in the issue of peace or war in the Middle East. We re-affirm, in our foreshadowed amendment, the right of all states in the Middle East to exist within defensible and recognised boundaries, free from external threat and we call on the Australian Government to use its influence to ensure that negotiations are based on Israel's right to existence within defensible and recognised boundaries. 
This brings me to the great issue of the present conflict. I refer to Resolution 242 of the United Nations. It is quite clear, to me anyway, that if Israel withdrew to its recognised frontiers, these frontiers would not be defensible. As long as Israel felt that it was under threat and there were continuing threats to its existence as a state, and as long as the Arab states were being massively armed and were showing an expressed willingness to use those arms, I believe that Israel felt, and justly felt, that it must have defensible borders which gave it room to manoeuvre in case of surprise attack. If the surprise attack had begun behind its recognised borders this time Israel may not have existed today. I think the first condition of peace must be an acceptance that Israel has a right to exist, that the Arab states must accept that fact and that Israel must be free from continued external threat. 
This raises another question. I am bound to mention it. I do not mention it in recrimination. I mention it as a fact of life. We talk about being even handed. I respect the Government's attitude of being even handed. Perhaps I am not as even handed in my attitude to the Middle East conflict as it is. I note that both the Soviet Union and the United States were criticised together for the supply of arms. It is rather like the position when somebody pushes a burglar into a house; the next door neighbour rushes in to help the householder and he is found as guilty as the man who broke into the house. The Middle East war would not have occurred this time if it had not been for the massive Soviet Russian support of the Arab states. 
I do not pretend to be even handed. I said that I would be less even handed than the Government. This is a fact which cannot be denied. It is no use being pious about it. It is no use throwing up our hands and trying to ignore it. It is a fact. The Soviet supplied not only massive armour but also the most modern weapons. It is noteworthy that it was reported within 2 or 3 days of the attack on Israeli positions along the Suez Canal that the Russian advisers military personnel returned home from Egypt. The United States, only when it was faced with Israel suffering attrition of its armour and weapons and with Russia beginning a massive airlift to supply the Arab states, began its very significant re-supply of Israel. I believe that this should be said and accepted. I do not accept that a even handed policy blames the United States to the same degree as it blames the Soviet Union for the war in the Middle East. 
It is very easy to express pious hopes in resolutions. The world cannot continue to live with this threat. Probably a chance exists now with goodwill on all sides to try to find a durable solution. It may well be that the only solution in the short and immediate terms will be a very significant peace keeping force to provide a buffer between the Arab states and Israel until such time as tempers cool, bitterness becomes a good deal less and a settlement is reached. People say: 'What is the cost of a peace keeping force?' The cost of a peace keeping force would be minimal compared with the cost of war. It would be minimal compared with the cost of a war which lasted 14 days. Negotiations are possible only on the basis that Israel's existence behind defensible and recognised borders is guaranteed. Without that guarantee there can be no lasting and durable peace in the Middle East. 
We also believe- it is referred to in our foreshadowed amendment- that there must be an understanding and an agreement between the 2 major powers concerned, the Soviet Union and the United States of America, that they will ensure that there is no massive rearmament and that they will adopt an even handed policy on both sides to ensure that peace is maintained. I regret to say it, but peace will be possible, regardless of the Security Council of the United Nations, only when these 2 major powers agree. There is an obligation on other powers not to fish in troubled waters. I recall a recent 'Four Corners' program, 1 think it was, which showed terrorists from Lebanon and elsewhere who had been trained in China and who were armed with Chinese weapons to carry out these outrageous acts of terrorism against innocent people throughout the world. We in this country have not been free of this threat. There is an obligation on other countries, including China, not to cause trouble and not to fish in troubled waters by training and supplying these people, if there is to be peace and trust in this area. 

 Senator Willesee mentioned the refugee problem. We mention it in our foreshadowed amendment. I think the solution of this problem is basic to any lasting settlement. The refugee problem must be solved. One cannot help but feel that the Arab states have been using these unfortunate people as a sort of shop window. There has not been by the Arab states a genuine effort to solve the refugee problem. It is not only a problem for the Arabs; it is a world problem. I hope that Australia will take a leading part in offering to help solve this problem. We could play a prominent part by offering generous financial support, in common with other countries, to solve this dreadful problem. It must be solved before there can be peace in the Middle East. I have spoken, I think, in a low key. United Nations Resolution 242 refers to the acquisition of territory by war. I speak for myself, but my sympathy is with Israel. I do not think we could have logically or rationally expected Israel to give up this territory which it believed and which many believed was essential for its defence and was proved essential for its defence, until such time as there was a settlement. Admittedly there has been intransigence on all sides. Do not let us apportion the blame too much to one side. There has been intransigence on all sides. It is very easy for us, in the relative security of Australia, to be critical. 1 have tried to put myself in Israel's position. Maybe I would have been as intransigent as Israel was. We only hope that out of this will come a greater desire to solve a problem which so far has proved to be insoluble. 
We believe that the amendment which we have foreshadowed and circulated faces up to the realities of the situation. It may express pious hopes but within its terms, I believe, are the essential ingredients for a settlement. The other essential and most important ingredient for a settlement is the willingness on both sides to come to an agreement which respects the territorial integrity of Israel and respects the rights and integrity of all other countries in the region. Reaching a settlement will not be easy, but recriminations will not do any good today. This is why we prefer the terms of the amendment we have moved to the Government's amendment rather than the terms of the motion moved a fortnight ago by the Australian Democratic Labor Party which does apportion blame although at the time the motion was moved that may have been fair enough. If this debate does anything at all, I hope that it expresses the wish of this Parliament to see in the Middle East a peace that recognises, as I said earlier, the existence of the state of Israel and the rights and integrity of the other countries in the region. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Prime Minister's brief and uninformative statement presented yesterday on his visit to Japan and China. Is it the Prime Minister's intention to make a detailed statement to Parliament on his discussions in Tokyo and Peking and on his meeting with Prince Sihanouk so that Parliament and the people can be fully informed as to the meaning, for example, of such expressions as Australia's new aspiration is symbolised more in our relations with China than with any other country'? Further, is the reported statement by Prince Sihanouk, which was published and released today in Peking, an accurate account of the Prime Minister's discussions with the Prince? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the continual reports of the violation of the cease fire agreement and the build up of troops and supplies, including new and modern weapons, and the construction of air fields by North Vietnam in South Vietnam. As the Government has now established diplomatic relations with North Vietnam, has it taken any action to protest to North Vietnam over these violations and made it clear that any new offensive will invite strong Australian reaction? Will the Government leave no doubt in the mind of the Government of North Vietnam that further breaches of the cease fire agreement will affect relations between North Vietnam and Australia, including further economic aid? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Some months ago I asked whether it was the Government's intention to upgrade a number of airports in Western Australia to enable TransAustralia Airlines to operate DC9 aircraft over the Perth to Darwin route. I was told that the Government did not intend to do so. In view of statements now being made that $1.5m will be required to bring certain airports- Kununurra and Broome have been mentioned- to DC9 standard I ask whether it is now the intention of the Government to spend this sum on upgrading airports for the use of DC9 aircraft? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Did the Prime Minister state or suggest at his news conference on 8 November that peace in the Pacific depended on Japan's maintaining its new course? Has the Prime Minister or the Government considered the serious possibility that the People's Republic of China, and not Japan, may abandon its new course? 
On 8 November I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an explanation of an expression used by the Prime Minister concerning our new relations with China.  Senator Withers  and  Senator Young  sought an explanation yesterday as to the precise meaning of the expression. They were told in effect that they understood English. I again quote the Prime Minister who said: 
Australia 's new aspiration is symbolised more in our relations with China than with any - 
I repeat, 'any'- 
. . other country. 
I ask: Did the Prime Minister use this expression because he liked the sound of the words or does he regard the expression as being significant in explaining our new relations with China? If the expression is significant, will the Minister explain the meaning for the benefit of those whose understanding of English is less than his? 
In directing this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs I refer once again to the expression used by the Prime Minister, namely, that Australia's new aspiration is symbolised more in our relations with China than with any other country. Does the Minister agree with the Prime Minister's statement? If so, will he make a statement to the Senate as to his interpretation of what is Australia's new aspiration and why it is symbolised more with China than with any other country? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister having, with customary immodesty, declared himself the greatest- the new Cassiusand also having expressed great admiration for Mao Tse-tung, I ask: Will the Minister draw the attention of the Prime Minister to one of Mao's thoughts; 'We should be modest and prudent. We should guard against arrogance and rashness and serve the people heart and soul'? Will he advise the Prime Minister that those who ignore these thoughts are likely to be regarded by Mao as bourgeois revisionists? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the AustralianChinese joint Press communique which stated on page 2 that relations should develop on the basis of the 5 principles which include noninterference in each other's internal affairs, with which I agree. In view of the long record of the Chinese Government in providing moral and material support, including the use of its territory for broadcasting facilities in support of armed subversion in South East Asia and elsewhere in disregard of these principles, did the Prime Minister seek and receive an assurance from the Chinese Government that this form of interference in the internal affairs of other countries would cease? If not, are we to regard the communique or this part of it, as expressing pious platitudes? 
Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that the resettlement of refugees is one of the most urgent tasks facing the South Vietnamese Government? Is it a fact that many governments are contributing towards this urgent and humanitarian task? Does Australia intend to make a contribution to assist these unfortunate people? 
It is quite obvious that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam), Mr Clyde  Cameron and Cassius Clay have a competitor. The saying now is not 'I am the greatest', but 'We are the greatest'. It is significant that  Senator McAuliffe  did not address himself at any stage of his speech to the subject before us. He chided us for not realising that there had been a change of government. One section of the community realises that there has been a change of government, and that is the State Premiers, Labor and non-Labor alike, as I will show in a moment. No matter is more relevant to be debated in the Senate than this one. Constitutionally, the Senate is a House of the States and it exists, to some extent, to protect the rights of the States in our Federal system. The Prime Minister, by his own words and his own action, continually has shown a contempt for State governments of all political complexions, their views and their responsibilities. The States are a part, an essential part, of our Federal system of government. The Prime Minister's objective- and he has made it clear- is to destroy the States and to centralise all power in Canberra, hopefully, of course, in his hands. 
The Prime Minister is on record as having said- and  Senator Durack  quoted him- that the State Labor governments should work towards their own disillusion. So what we see is an objective to gain absolute power. We are already witnessing the truth of a saying by Lord Acton many years ago, that all power corrupts and absolute power tends to corrupt absolutely. We are already seeing at work the result of the corruption of power. We see an arrogant and reckless abuse of power. It is interesting that this abuse of power was condemned by the Australian Public Service Federation which met, I think in Sydney recently. That Federation cannot be accused of political bias. A report of that meeting was published in the 'Australian' on Friday, 23 November 1973. It states: 
It carried a resolution calling for all necessary action to be taken to protect the rights and responsibilities or the State public services. 
There was blatant dictatorship of centralist government and bureaucratic directive which are quickly destroying the constitutional fabric of the States' sovereignty.  Mr O.  0'Carroll of Victoria, said. 
That is a condemnation. The report continues: 
Public servants who went to Canberra, cap in hand, on behalf of their governments, had found the minister submerged in his think tank, surrounded by all his imported intellectual whiz kids or task forces. 
Invariably, his permanent department head was well hidden and silenced in the background,  Mr 0'Carroll  said. 
You will be told by these theory merchants, who have little or no experience in practical application, how they, with the weird and wonderful ideas, will solve all your problems if you act like a good little boy and do exactly as they say. 
That is the view of a public servant- again, he cannot be accused of political bias- based on his experience in coming to Canberra on behalf of his State government. Surely if there is a condemnation of the actions of this Government, it is here. 
I wish to speak this afternoon of the quite irrational and arrogant threats made last week to interests in my State of Western Australia by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  because no State is suffering more from the ideological hangups and dictatorial and arbitrary decisions of this Minister than is Western 
Australia. Despite what  Senator Cant  had to say, no State has made greater progress in mineral development than has Western Australia under Liberal governments, supported by the present State Labor Government. Of course, we relied to a great extent upon overseas capital. Without it, Western Australia's minerals would never have been developed. But last week's ill-humoured and rather vulgar attack made by the Minister upon, in some cases, unnamed people in Western Australia-- 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy made the attack. I have already mentioned that. 
It is unfortunate that the honourable senator mentioned  Sir Charles  Court because the Minister made a statement, which was completely untrue, concerning what  Sir Charles  Court is alleged to have said.  Sir Charles  Court, in his reply,, has given the lie direct to the Minister's statement. Let  Mr Connor  dwell on that. 
The Minister misquoted the transcript of the television interview. 
The honourable senator should look at it again to see where  Mr Connor  misquoted it. A report of last week carries the headline:  'Mr Connor  Accuses Disloyal Junta in Western Australia'. He went on in an irrational manner and he accused members of this unnamed junta of wanting to sell Australia's natural resources to foreign interests for their own benefit. I hope that honourable senators, and particularly  Senator Cant,  will note what  Mr Connor  said, because I wish to quote what was said by the Premier of Western Australia in a moment. The newspaper article states: 

 Mr Connor said that the extent of foreign control of West Australian mineral resources went back to the Liberal administration. 
He excluded Mount Newman from that statement, the negotiations for which were conducted by  Sir Charles  Court. He did not acknowledge that. He went on to say: 
You will find at the bottom of it this same junta with loyalties to their pockets and not to Australia. 
He also referred to some Rhodesian interests or some ideological home within Rhodesia, whoever these people may be.  Mr Tonkin,  the Labor Premier of Western Australia, whom I have no doubt the Government would regard as a distinguished Premier, was asked about  Mr Connor's  statement. This indicates the extent to which this Government, through this Minister and other Ministers, is damaging the interests of Western Australia because of their arbitrary, irrational and reckless decisions.  Mr Tonkin  started off by saying, as reported: 
WA still needs foreign capital badly to develop its mineral resources and processing capacity- 
The article goes on to state: 
He said yesterday that the minerals would still be undeveloped if the State had waited for local capital to become available instead of accepting money from overseas. 
Goodness me! Talking of illogical and irrational comments, that one must take the bun. The honourable senator must talk to  Mr Connor.  The honourable senator has been listening to him.  Mr Tonkin  went on to defend the role of foreign capital and the conduct of foreign companies in regard to the State 's mineral development. He said that Western Australia still relied heavily on foreign funds for its development. What is happening here is that  Mr Connor  and this Government, by arbitrary decisions, are denying Western Australia the foreign capital that  Mr Tonkin  says it so urgently requires. I ask honourable senators to listen to this quote from the newspaper article. 

 Mr Tonkin . . . denied any knowledge of a junta said by the Federal Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  to have loyalties to their own pockets and not to Australian sovereignty. 
It is reported that  Mr Tonkin  also said: 
. that no foreign firm had hindered or pressured his Government over the exploration, development or processing of minerals and sources of energy. 
He said that all his Government's negotiations with foreign companies involved in or seeking to become involved in WA's resources had been 'quite amicable and free from any kind of coercion'. 
The article goes on to say: 
He did not think that any multi-national company had tried to tell the Government how to run its affairs-an allegation often made against the multi-nationals. 
The article continues: 
Asked if he thought that the time had come when WA's mining and mineral processing could progress without heavy reliance on foreign capital he said: 'No. ' 
Surely honourable senators opposite will not accuse  Mr Tonkin  of not being a good Labor 
Premier and a good Labor supporter. But this is what  Mr Tonkin  has to say about the actions and attitudes of this Federal Government. 
Therefore, what this Federal Government has to learn is that it cannot ride roughshod over the interests of the States in those areas in which the States have responsibility towards their own development. It should not be a case of confrontation or of arrogant and arbitrary decisionmaking such as was illustrated in the case of the Woodside-Burmah-Kanamatsu-Goshu deal for a refinery which the Western Australian Government wanted and negotiated for but in relation to which  Mr Connor  just said 'No' without offering any reasons. It was an enterprise which would have been of great benefit to Western Australia, and which would have earned export income for Australia and would have further developed the northern part of our continent. On every count  Mr Connor  and this Government deserve to be disowned. It is quite clear that  Mr Tonkin  clearly believes, if he has not said it outright, that the actions of the Federal Government in relation to the development of Western Australia in these arbitrary, arrogant and irrational decisions are against the interests of Western Australia. It is quite false to claim that the previous State Government in Western Australia sold Western Australia to foreign interests. The previous Government in Western Australia, with great difficulty, found money from overseas people who were prepared to take risks in areas where no one else was prepared to do so. Today the result is that Western Australia is one of the great export earners for Australia. 
We hear talk about overseas control and ownership and all this tommy-rot. I ask honourable senators to look at the export earnings of Western Australia and what they have meant to this country. I think that my colleague,  Senator Durack,  pointed out that without those earnings during the rural recession we could have faced the gravest economic conditions in this country. This would have been the case if it were not for the foresight of non-Labor governments of the past- the Liberal-Country Party Government in Western Australia supported by the Liberal-Country Party Government federally. 
We remember what happened in 1947 when the Labor Government sold wheat to New Zealand at below world prices to bolster up a sagging New Zealand Labor Government. 
So the honourable senator should not talk about wheat. The actions of this Government in relation to the development of States are based upon either ignorance or sheer distortion of the facts. It is dangerous for the Minister to make the allegations that he has made. If he wants to name juntas, let him name the people concerned so that they can reply to these baseless allegations. Of course,  Mr Tonkin  has shown this to be a complete and utter untruth. 
Finally, I would like to say this: On every count this Government is showing that it wants all control. When I hear Ministers talk about plenary powers I am reminded of another gentleman who always spoke of obtaining plenary powers. His name was Adolf Hitler. Perhaps the Ministers of this Government might remember that when they start speaking about wishing to obtain plenary powers. The plain fact is that in every field of endeavour we are finding day by day this Government seeking to gain control over every facet of Australian life at the expense of State governments. Piece of legislation after piece of legislation is designed to concentrate power in the Federal Government and in Canberra. There is no more damning indictment of this Government than the words of the resolution passed and the statements made by the Australian Public Service Federation which met last Thursday in Sydney. The Federation referred to the dangerous practice of centralisation and of bureaucratic control. The Senate should pass this motion. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Wilkinson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I wish to refer briefly to a matter that I referred to yesterday. It is the rather weird attitude of this Government to foreign investment and the damaging effect that it is having upon the development of Australia, and particularly on the lesser developed States and the northern remote areas. I do not know what this attitude is based upon. I do not know whether it is based upon some odd view of extreme economic nationalism or upon some ideological slant. It is being administered in an arbitrary and reckless manner by the Government and by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on behalf of the Government. Yesterday I cited the arbitrary decision by the Minister not to allow a big refinery to be built in the north-west of Western Australia by the Woodside-Burmah-Kanamatsu-Goshu consortium. The Western Australian Government was keen to develop it. I also quoted yesterday the statements by the Labor Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  in reply to some reckless allegations made by  Mr Connor.  Today I am provoked into raising this matter again by a headline in today's issue of the 'West Australian' which reads: 'WA Minister: Canberra mad'. The Minister referred to is the Minister for the Northwest,  Mr Bickerton,  who is the member for the electorate of Pilbara in the Western Australian Parliament. He has lived in Port Hedland for many years. I think that  Mr Bickerton  's statement demonstrates even more clearly the complete disregard by the Federal Government for States such as Western Australia and for the development of the States. The article states: 

 Mr Bickerton . . . described as mad the Federal Government's policies limiting foreign investment in developing remote areas. 
He said: 'I can say unequivocally that without foreign capital our remote areas will not be developed. 
He cannot be accused of supporting the capitalists or of supporting foreign ownership and control. These are his views. He then went on to say: 
We did not have anything in the North- West till we got foreign capital . . . 
That is true.  Sir Charles  Court has been attacked by certain people for what he did to introduce foreign capital to Western Australia to develop our greatest iron ore resources and it has been suggested that he was selling Australian assets. But  Mr Bickerton  throws that allegation straight back in their faces.  Mr Bickerton  said: 
It is not a matter of knocking back local capital, it is a question of getting capital- foreign or local. 
The Australian content has not been available. 
He then went on to say that the Federal Government had adequate powers to ensure that the Australian people were protected against foreign control without banning or limiting foreign investment in particular projects. He said that the Commonwealth had not studied the benefits of overseas investment and that all it had done was to look at its possible wickedness. How true that is.  Mr Bickerton  has hit the nail right on the head because all that the Commonwealth Government can see is the wickedness of foreign investors who want to exploit Australia and Australian resources. The Government never looks at the benefits of such investment. 
That is one of the most ignorant and ridiculous statements I have ever heard. Look at what Australia has earned in digging those holes. If it had not been for those holes in the ground in Western Australia we could well have faced an economic crisis when the rural industries were in such a state of depression. Do not forget that it was foreign investment in Western Australian and the north of Australia that saved the Australian economy. 
No, but that is another story.  Mr Bickerton  went on to say that foreign capital was apparently accepted when it was invested in hotels and other things. He said: 
But as soon as you get it in the development of natural resouces in remote areas the Commonwealth wants to tell you how much you can have. 
This is the arbitrary centralised control that we have been talking about. He went on to say: 
It is all very nice for a person in a developed area to tell a person in an underdeveloped area how to run their country. 
They have already got their schools and halls . . . 
It would not hurt them to have a look round to see how foreign capital, even in their own areas, has given them the facilities they require. 

 Mr Bickerton referred to the fact that a few years ago one could not get a haircut in Port Hedland. Today, of course, Port Hedland is a modern town with all facilities that have only been available because of the influence of foreign investment. 
Finally  Mr Bickerton  referred to the fact that he had issued invitations to the next meeting of the Northern Development Council to be held in the Pilbara next March. He said that if he had issued an invitation some years ago it would not have been possible to hold a meeting there. He said: 
If foreign capital has done that for us, all I can say is that we need bloody more of it. 
These are the views of a Labor Minister of Western Australia who lives in the north west of Western Australia and has lived there all his life. If the Federal Government does not heed the advice and the words of its own State Labor governments whose responsibility it is to develop their States, the Federal Government will deserve to go down as a government responsible for damaging the development of Australia and particularly as a government whose policies would be disastrous to the development of our more remote areas. 
-My colleague  Senator Cotton  just mentioned that some honourable senators may have differing views on this amendment. I am one of those who have a differing view. I cannot understand the logic of this amendment. I have read the report of  Sir John  Crawford, particularly the paragraphs which apply to temporary assistance. I recognise and acknowledge that there will be cases in both secondary and primary industry where emergency protection will be required.  Sir John  deals with this in paragraph 78 on page 46 of the report. I think that  Senator Cotton  read out the relevant parts of his comments and I do not intend to repeat them. 
I find my objection to the amendment to be one of principle. Some people say that when people start talking about principle they feel a bit ill. But I am on record in this Senate over many years as having been very critical of the activities of the Special Advisory Authority. Therefore I do not wish to see another authority established outside the Tariff Board, and in this case outside the Commission. I am impressed with the study that  Sir John  Crawford has done. I am also impressed with the fact that he had a good deal of personal experience as Secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry of the operations of the Tariff Board and the Special Advisory Authority. Therefore I think that his views should be taken as the views of a man who knows the job. In paragraph 83 at page 48 of his report  Sir John  said: 
I consider that the Commission would be the appropriate authority to provide advice on temporary assistance, because the scope for inconsistencies in the treatment of individual industries would then be minimised. Also, attempts are likely to be made to exploit provisions for temporary protection- either to keep relatively high (temporary) rates of protection operative for long periods, with minimum interruptions, or to slow down rates of tariff reduction (in cases where recommendations have been made to stagger tariff reductions over a period of several years). 
We had many examples of the keeping of relatively high temporary rates of protection operative for long periods in the operations of the Special Advisory Authority in relation to which references were shunted backwards and forwards between the Tariff Board and the Special Advisory Authority. No doubt with this in mind,  Sir John  went on to say in paragraph 84 of his report: 
I note that many of the industries which have been referred to the Special Advisory Authority have been more highly protected than most Australian industries, and some have expanded their operations under temporary protection which, on average, has operated for about 2 years. 
That seems to me to be an inordinate period of time for temporary protection to operate. I know that some fears have been expressed about a member of the Commission who dealt with an emergency application then sitting on the inquiry when it came before the Commission. In paragraph 85 of his report- I think this is significant because I agree that that would be undesirableSir John said: 
I envisage that questions of temporary assistance referred to the Commission would be handled by individual Commissioners, and that only a short period would be allowed for inquiry and report. These Commissioners concerned and their supporting staff, should not subsequently be required to review the permanent rates of protection or other assistance which should apply to the activities concerned. 
That seems to me to be a commonsense approach. I have no doubt that that procedure will be adopted. I do not want to speak very long on this matter, although I have been almost provoked into doing so. I just want to say that temporary protection was first applied in 1958. The Special Advisory Authority at that time was a former  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. In 1960 a  Deputy Chairman  of the Tariff Board- in other words, a member of the Tariff Board- was appointed to hear cases where temporary emergency assistance was required. This procedure was changed in 1962. It was then that the Special Advisory Authority was appointed. One of the reasons given for this change was that the  Deputy Chairman  then would be freed for ordinary Tariff Board work.  Dr Corden,  who was one of the few academics to take very much interest in the subject of tariffs at that time, was critical of this decision. He said that he could never find any convincing arguments for the change and that the most likely explanation is that purely political motives were involved. In an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' on 20 November 1962 he summed up his feelings by saying: 
One may guess that the real reason for establishing the Special Advisory Authority was that Deputy Chairmen were not sufficiently forthcoming in recommending temporary duties. 
Between 1958 and 1962 some 39 inquiries, I think, were handled. In the period to 1972 there were 99 Special Advisory Authority reports of which 91 recommended increased protection. If one were to read these reports one would see that in many cases- many examples could be quoted and if I had time to do so or if I were challenged to do so I could quote them- there was a great deal of inconsistency in the reasons advanced for the provision of temporary protection. Indeed there are many contradictions from one report to another in the reasons advanced. I cannot accept that the establishment of a Special Advisory Authority outside the Commission is the proper way in which to deal with applications for temporary protection. I believe that the previous system was in all respects an unsatisfactory one. If one were to go back to when the Special Advisory Authority recommended high levels of protection one would see that in many cases when the applications came before the Tariff Board the Tariff Board then recommended much lower levels of protection. Without being critical of the person or persons concerned I have always felt, and have said on many occasions, that this was not a satisfactory way in which to deal with applications for temporary protection. I will not go into any further detail. I rose merely to say what I have said. I just do not understand why such an amendment has been moved. I do not think it is an advisable amendment. Having said that, I think I should rest my case. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government concerned at reports of the continual buildup of North Vietnamese forces in South Vietnam and at the blatant violation of the ceasefire agreement by North Vietnamese forces? Is the Government aware that an estimated 600 heavy tanks, 600 pieces of artillery and 100,000 troops have infiltrated South Vietnam since the ceasefire agreement? Will the Government instruct the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, to protest to North Vietnam over these violations during his forthcoming visit? What action is the Government taking to ensure that Australian aid to North Vietnam is not being used to support the North Vietnamese war machine? If the Government is taking no action will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will take urgent action to ensure that Australian aid will not assist North Vietnam to continue its offensive against South Vietnam and to continue murdering the people of South Vietnam? 
I have listened to the explanation of the Minister. As I understand him, he has said that boats will be seized and that the owners can apply to the court, which will make the ultimate decision whether the boats should be confiscated or returned. The onus is on the owners to put up a case. 
I want to ask what will happen in the event of seizure of a boat from a country with which Australia has no diplomatic relations, such as Taiwan. Would there be any problems in regard to a Taiwanese shipping owner being able to make application to an Australian court? 
-I support the views of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  regarding the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill. I was somewhat critical of the increases in air navigation charges when the Liberal-Country Party was in Government. I believe that while it is fair that airlines and those who use them should pay a proportion of the costs of maintaining airports and facilities, I think it becomes counterproductive when the costs rise too high. I urge the Government to have a good look at these charges not only in relation to the tourist trade but also in relation to increasing costs of air travel which will be eventually, as I say, counterproductive. It is all very well to want to claim 80 per cent or whatever the figure is of the costs of the facilities, but I do not think that that is the approach we should be using. I ask honourable senators not to forget that air services and the facilities at airports are also important to defence. They are not just for the carrying of passengers. They have importance in other areas. 
The real reason why I rose is to refer again to the entry of Trans-Australia Airlines into Western Australia. Last session I spoke on the problems of maintaining the positions of highly trained pilots who are employed by MacRobertson Miller Airline Services. I said then that we could not afford to lose these people either overseas or elsewhere because we will need them. I notice that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in a Press release gave a very qualified assurance regarding the maintenance of the pilots' position and also of other people employed by MacRobertson Miller Airline Services. He referred to Air Niugini and patted himself on the back. I suggest that Air Niugini has no relationship to the position in Western Australia. 
The Minister referred to the Commonwealth Government's proposed takeover of the operations of State railways and the assurance that any employee who was transferred would do so on terms no less favourable than his current conditions. Having patted himself on the back with regard to that he then came to the position of the employees of MacRobertson Miller Airline Services and started to qualify the position. The Press release states: 
. he was confident that, with the expansion of traffic and services in Western Australia- 
I do not quite know on what he based that- any problem of surplus staff would be minimal, even if there were some staff redundancies brought about by TAA's operations, and TAA could not absorb the people concerned, the Australian Government would look sympathetically at proposals to correct the situation. 
Of course that is entirely different from the position in regard to the railways. I express a fear that if TAA operates, a number of pilots will no longer be required. If the Minister is sincere in what he has said, before this happens the Government should look sympathetically at the position to ensure that these pilots are not lost. There are various ways in which this may be achieved. I spoke of those ways before. I do not know whether anything has been done about it or whether it has been thought about. Nevertheless, I assure the Minister that unless this matter is looked at there could be some trouble. The other matter concerns the spending of $ 1.3m to upgrade some airports for DC9 operations. I am reminded that when the previous Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  announced that TAA would be allowed to operate on the PerthDarwin flight, in a letter dated 6 October 1972 to both airlines he stated: 
In this regard, the Government's decision on the Perth-Port Hedland-Darwin route is on the basis that there is no commitment on the Commonwealth to upgrade airport facilities on any proposed intermediate stopping place to cater for any proposed aircraft type. 
In other words the airlines would have to use the type of aircraft which suited the runway conditions. I felt that this was a sound proposal because there are fast, modern jet aircraft which meet these conditions. A Treasury statement- I take it that it was put out by the present Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stated: 
We have decided that all future proposals for investment in civil aviation projects should be subject to economic evaluation. 
I ask the Minister whether this project has been subject to economic evaluation. He made some fairly extraordinary statements in reply to  Mr Nixon.  At one stage he said that by some means there would be a saving of some $800,000. 1 am not quite sure how he arrived at that figure because he did not explain. He just said: 
The increased revenue from the use of the DC9 aircraft plus the great saving to the people of Western Australia. 
That was not explained- more than balances out the increased cost. 

 Mr Nixon said: 
Very strange economics I must say. 

 Mr Charles Jones replied: 
To me it appears to be pretty good economics. 
To me it seems like political accounting, not financial accounting. The Minister went on to cite a saving of something like $800,000 to the people of Western Australia if TAA were to come into operation on the Perth to Darwin service and the intrastate services in Western Australia. I would like an explanation from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  of how the Minister for Transport arrived at that figure of $800,000. It may be that we can obtain that in some detail. There is one other matter to which I wish to refer. The Minister made a statement which is completely untrue. He referred to the problems of freight in Western Australia.  Mr Nixon  said that perfectly good aircraft in the form of the F28 were operating very satisfactorily in Western Australia without any increased cost for airport construction. He asked why the DC9s should operate. The Minister replied: 
. the F2 8 is leaving behind a considerable amount of freight each trip. This was one of the major complaints that was made to me- that whereas the rest of Australia could send freight at the average freight rate, in Western Australia in order to ensure delivery it has to be sent as express freight, which means an increased charge. This is as a result of the F28 not being big enough and not providing a service for the people of Western Australia. The DC9 aircraft will provide them with a service. 
That statement is not correct. I have checked the figures and the express freight carried by MacRobertson Miller Airline Services represents 1 6 per cent of its total freight while that carried by TAA, I understand, represents 22 per cent of its freight. I do not say this in a critical fashion; it is a fact of life. It is also interesting to note that Ward's Freight Services Pty Ltd, which apparently is a big freight company, has a contract with MacRobertson Miller Airlines to cart freight to the north west and has expressed the view that it is more than satisfied with the service provided. Again I say to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs so that he can pass the information on to his colleague the Minister for Transport, that because of MacRobertson Millers capacity to carry express freight it is looking for more freight. It is constantly seeking greater freight loads. I do not know where the information in the statement ofthe Minister for Transport came from but in fairness to MacRobertson Miller he should correct it. Therefore while I am not opposing this Bill, I believe that the Government has a responsibility to the people concerned- the pilots and others employed by MacRobertson Miller Airlines. On the basis of fairness and fair play it has a responsibility to ensure that the pilots employed by MacRobertson Miller Airlines are not disadvantaged. I seek some assurance from the Minister on this matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government concerned at reports of the continual build up of North Vietnamese forces in South Vietnam and the flagrant violation of the ceasefire agreement by North Vietnamese forces? Is the Government aware that an estimated 600 heavy tanks, 600 pieces of artillery and tens of thousands of troops have infiltrated into South Vietnam since the ceasefire agreement? Will the Government instruct the Minister for Overseas Trade  Dr Cairns,  to protest to North Vietnam over these violations during his present visit to that country? What action is the Government taking to ensure that Australian aid to North Vietnam is not being used to support the North Vietnamese war machine? Finally, if the Government has not yet taken action, will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will take urgent action to ensure that Australian aid will not assist North Vietnam to continue its offensive against South Vietnam and to continue murdering the people of South Vietnam? 
-As this Bill continues legislation which was introduced in 1971 by the previous Government, the Opposition supports the Bill. The circumstances surrounding rural industries today are far different from the circumstances surrounding those industries when this legislation was so urgently needed, but with the present economic world climate one cannot be sure that some primary industries will not find themselves in need of further assistance in future. Today many are benefiting from this legislation. I have a personal interest in this legislation because it was first introduced as a result of recommendations of the Federal Rural Committee of the Liberal Party at a time when I was  Chairman,  in the 1960s. We foresaw that serious problems could arise in the rural industries which could not be catered for with the existing banking system- problems such as the economic viability or non-viability, if I can use that word, of many properties when faced with the upward pressure of costs and the downward pressure of prices. It was realised that some farmers would find that they had to leave the land. This became not only an economic problem but also a human problem, and it was the responsibility of the community to assist them to leave if they so desired. It had to be, of course, their free choice. It also enabled other farmers to amalgamate properties so that they would become more economically viable, and it provided for the rehabilitation and training of those who, because of economic pressures, made a conscious decision to leave the land. 
I believe the legislation has been of great benefit to very many farmers. Therefore, there remains a need for it to continue, and it may well have to proceed beyond the year envisaged in the legislation, which I understand is 1976. Also, of course, it provided for the consolidation of debts. This proved of tremendous value in many cases, and many farmers who today are economically viable would not have been so except for the assistance provided by this legislation. 
The only other point I wish to make is that there must be continuing consultation between the Federal Government and the States as to needs, because the States are very often in the best position to know their own peculiar requirements and the problems of selected industries particularly within those States. We commend this Bill and will give the legislation our continuing support. 
I refer the Minister for Foreign Affairs to a report that the Vietcong has warned the Government of South Vietnam to pull its troops out of the border province of Quong Duc or face the consequences. The report continued by stating that the Vietcong had said that 'all our military acts are aimed at punishing the Saigon administration for its acts on territory belonging to the People's Revolutionary Council'. Does the Government accept this arrogant assumption by the Vietcong that it has rights over South Vietnamese territory? 
My question, addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, follows on from a question asked by  Senator Drake-Brockman.  Is  Dr Cairns  expressing the views of the Australian Government in stating that the United States Government's objective is to maintain as much Vietnamese territory as possible and that the Australian Govenment would probably recognise the People's Revolutionary Government in one form or another? If he is not expressing the view of the Australian Government, or the Government 's policy, will the Minister say so? 
I ask the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is the report correct that the Chinese Government has protested about the reporting by Australian journalists based in China concerning the interesting events now developing in China? If the report is correct, what form did the protest take? If a protest was made, has the Australian Government informed the Chinese Government that it defends the right of Australian journalists to report events free from coercion or threats? 
-I am sorry my colleague  Senator Hannan  has left the chamber after his attack upon the introduction of the metric system. As I look around the chamber I see  Senator Drury, Senator Poyser  and  Senator Marriott. Senator McManus  and I, along with those senators, were members of the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures that recommended the introduction of the metric system into Australia with the support of an overwhelming amount of evidence from all sections of the Australian community. I suppose it is inevitable that some people wil see some evil in it. It is rather interesting that the United States of America has had a chequered record in the introduction of the metric system. I think it was first considered in the last century and pressures were then brought to bear to drop it, despite a recommendation of a Congress committee in the 1 890s, from memory, that the Americas should adopt the metric system. The Americans are now reconsidering the system and I have noted some comments which regard its introduction as inevitable. I do not wish to say any more than that on the subject but I think it should be put on record- and I believe I would be correct in saying- that more than 90 per cent of the evidence submitted to the Senate Select Committee strongly supported the introduction of this system into Australia. Another factor I wish to refer to is costs. Without looking at the savings in costs in the long term there was ample evidence to suggest that there would be a very considerable saving in costs as the system was introduced. I leave the subject at that. 
I wish to mention very briefly 3 matters which have been referred to in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  namely the attack on the constitutional rights and the responsibilities of those rights by the present administration, the rural industries and, finally, defence policy. While the Government claims to have a mandate to introduce a great deal of legislation, I do not believe it can claim to have any mandate to attack the responsibilities of the States. It certainly has not a mandate from the States of Western Australia and Queensland nor, I believe, from any other State, to carry out a policy which is aimed at diminishing the responsibilities of the States. The Government has no mandate to attack the rural industries, and certainly the only mandate the Government can claim in regard to defence policy is on the undertaking by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that defence spending would not be reduced. In all 3 of these matters the Government cannot claim to have any other mandate and certainly it did not receive a mandate from the people. 
I am not against the transfer of powers from the States to the Commonwealth where it can be clearly shown that the Commonwealth can more efficiently administer these powers. I believe there is strong argument for the transfer of powers from the Commonwealth to the States when it can be shown that the States can more effectively administer the powers. As I understand it the present Australian Constitutional Convention is looking at these matters. One would have thought that a wise government would withhold its attacks upon the States until such time as the Constitutional Convention reported. I argue against attempts by the Government, in many cases by strong arm methods, to pressurise the States by threats, by coercion and by the use of its financial powers. The States have been pressurised to bend to the will of the Canberra bureaucracy even in the matter of freeways of which surely the States and the State officers have a far better knowledge than has some centralised bureaucracy in Canberra. 
The Prime Minister, it is true, has declared his belief in the unitary system. The Prime Minister and indeed the Labor Party have adopted a policy which aims at the elimination of State governments and the setting up of a number of local authorities. This is in Labor Party policy but it was not put forward in the December 1972 election campaign. But we witness this continuing attack upon the power and responsibilities of State government. I believe that there is always danger in centralised power. I rather deplore the use of cliches such as State rights and centralism which mean different things to different people. I believe that what is required in Australia- I am indebted to  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, for using the phrase- is decentralisation of power. I refer not only to decentralisation of power between Canberra and the States but also to decentralisation of power within the States between State governments and local authorities. I have noted iu.it the Prime Minister made some reference to this matter. If he meant by his remarks what I mean by mine, I agree with him. Certainly there is a complaint from local authorities of the centralisation of power within the States. I think that complaint is justified. I think that freedom can best be protected by decentralisation of power and by those with the best local knowledge carrying out the responsibilities. Therefore I cannot support the Government's attitude. Indeed I oppose it and I oppose it strongly. 
The Senate, which constitutionally is a States House, should be very jealous in protecting the rights and responsibilities of State governments. I certainly will be looking very carefully at legislation which attempts to diminish the responsibilities of State governments in those areas where State governments can more effectively and efficiently exercise power. The clumsy and at times dictatorial actions of the Prime Minister and his Government in attempting to destroy the whole basis of the federal system certainly do not have my support. Nor, I believe, do they have the support of an overwhelming number of Australian people. 
I now turn to the Government's attacks upon the rural industries and, in particular, the recent decision to eliminate the superphosphate bounty. I can think of no greater criticism of the Government in relation to this impulsive action than that which came from some of its own members, one of whom is reported to have said that the Government's decision was stupid. Indeed, I think that is about the mildest criticism one can make. The Prime Minister, in justification of the Government's action, recently told the farmers in Victoria that they have never had it so good. Certainly today there is greater prosperity in rural industries than there has been for some years, but surely lessons teach us that these conditions can change dramatically. Over the last 25 years we have been though a number of situations when the rural industries have prospered one year and then, because of world conditions, prices have dropped dramatically and have threatened the whole economic basis of many of our rural industries. Today, because of world conditions prices are generally good and buoyant and farmers are generally prosperous. This does not say that in 3 years, 4 years or even 2 years these same economic conditions will prevail. The very outlook in the world today with the energy crisis and its effect upon the economies of the world and particularly upon the less developed countries should be a warning that world conditions can change very quickly. 
Another factor which is worrying and which must be worrying to the rural industries is inflation with costs rising continually and rapidly. We face a situation where we have a 14 per cent inflation rate which, in the view of some economists, is becoming self-generating and very difficult to stop. We see a situation developing where some of our primary industries very shortly could find themselves in economic difficulties. Certainly this is creating problems for many of our primary industries. One cannot help but feel that today rural industries are being made to pay for the Government's extravagances in other areas. But not only are the rural industries going to suffer because of this; we will find that farmers' costs will increase and, therefore, the cost to the consumers of many of our primary products will increase. I do not know how accurate this is but I have seen a figure suggesting that the price of wheat will rise by 5c a bushel because of the elimination of the superphosphate bounty. If that is so the increase inevitably will go through to the consumer and further feed the fires of inflation. 
Of course another factor is the almost certainty of the price of superphosphate rising quite dramatically. The price of phosphate rock is rising, I think, about 2, 3 or 4 times. All the indications are that in the coming years the price of superphosphate will show a quite dramatic rise. Here again we will find that the effect of this will inevitably flow through to the whole commuity. One can only support the criticism from some of the Government's own supporters who describe the Government's action as being stupid. But the fact is that the attitude of this Government to the rural industries and to those who depend upon them has been arrogant and unjust. 
The second factor to which I make a number of references is the incredible decision of the Government to announce the elimination of the subsidy without referring it to the body of its own creation, the Industries Assistance Commission. I support the establishment of the Industries Assistance Commission. As we understand it one of its responsibilities was to examine these matters and report to the Government as to the economic consequences of abolishing or eliminating bounties such as the superphosphate bounty. But the Prime Minister, in a moment of arrogance and maybe impulsiveness, said to the farmers: 'If you do not like it, you take it to the Industries Assistance Commission'. I never understood the Industries Assistance Commission to be established as an appeal body to which the farmer or any other section of the community could appeal over actions of the Government. The Government should have a sound economic argument to support its policies. There should be a clear examination by an independent body such as the Industries Assistance Commission before the Government takes action. It is not for the farmers to go to the cost of appealing to this Commission for justice. 
I think that is an incredible decision by the Government. The wounds which the Government is suffering in relation to rural areas are self-inflicted and the result of impulsive and thoughtless action. 
I repeat that one cannot help suspecting that farmers, many of whom are coming to this belief, are being made to pay for the extravagant promises of this Government. 
The last matter to which I turn is the Government 's defence policy. The Prime Minister undertook that defence expenditure would not fall below 3.2 per cent or 3.4 per cent of the gross national product. Within months it has fallen to something like 2.9 per cent. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  admits that the major responsibility of the Government- of any government- is the security of the nation. One cannot help but feel that the Government's whole attitude to defence shows a frightening unreality. It is based upon an assessment that no discernible threat will exist for 10 or 15 years. I do not wish to challenge that assessment but I will be happy to do so at some other time. The folly of such assessments is shown through history. In the eighteenth century Pitt said that England faced 15 years of peace. Instead it faced 15 years of war. In July 1914 an English statesman said that the international situation never seemed brighter. Within one month the First World War had broken out. Many of us know the record of the 1930s when, throughout the world statesmen were talking of peace and ignoring the obvious threat from Nazi Germany. Right up to the last moment some people were still saying that we faced an era of peace. Those such as  Sir Winston  Churchill who proclaimed the danger of Germany, were regarded by many as madmen and were called warmongers. 
The Korean war happened almost without warning. Recently we had the energy crisis. At one stage, when the United States nuclear forces were put on full alert, the world seemed to be facing the possibility of armed conflict. This situation arose overnight. Sb the lessons of history show the folly of making this type of assessment. Unfortunately, I do /not believe that anybody who looks at the world situation today can say that the chances of instability are not at least as great as the chances of stability. The Sino-Soviet dispute affects a large area of the world- Europe, Africa, the Middle East, the Indian sub-continent and South East Asia. It affects relations and creates uncertainties between countries almost throughout the whole world. Today in China many people are finding what they regard as new signs of internal disorder or internal convulsion. At the moment no one knows who the targets may be, but certainly there are targets. The lessons in China are that each purge since 1949 has brought increasing power to the hard liners. It would be a brave man who would forecast where China's policy is likely to lead in the next 5 years. The ageing leadership of China, and inevitability of change and the lack of knowledge as to who the future leaders are likely to be, their policies or the internal policies of China - 
The hard liners did. 
I am saying that the hard liners took over. 
Do not forget that they are the people who initially started the Red Guard. It was only when the Red Guard got out of control that the army came back to smash the Red Guard because of the fear of where the policies of the Red Guard were leading China. If we had time to go into this matter, I think the honourable senator would find that this is so. All I am speaking of are the uncertainties in the world, the uncertainties in relations between the United States and Japan, between China and Russia and between Japan, China and Russia. Today there is no balance of power worked out. 
In South East Asia there is increasing uncertainty. Recently a series of Dyason lectures was given by  Mr Rajaratnam,  the Foreign Minister of Singapore, who pointed out the uncertainties and who predicted that South East Asia would remain an area of big power conflict and competition. All indications point to the area between the northwest of Australia through to the China Sea becoming, in the foreseeable future, one of the great energy producing areas of the world, and that inevitably will bring big power competition and big power conflict to our shores. When this proposition was put to the leaders of some countries in South East Asia which I visited recently, they accepted without question that it was inevitable. 
I am saying very briefly and very inadequately that the world situation is far from stable. No one can look forward, with confidence, ten or IS years. Because there is no identifiable threat does not mean that there is no threat. Surely the lessons of history teach us that. It cannot be denied that there has been a rundown in defence capacity. Recently  Sir Richard  Peek said some words which all honourable senators should take to heart. At last report- I do not know whether it has been confirmed 300-odd officers have resigned since this Government took office. They include majors and lieutenant-colonels of ten and 15 years service. Despite all the excuses which honourable senators opposite make, we cannot replace overnight men with this experience. They would not leave a service to which they have given the best years of their lives if they could see a future for themselves. They do not see a future. 
I refer to the situation in the Indian Ocean area where most of the third world lives. This is the most obvious area of competition between Russia and China. I was amazed at the Government's reaction to the announcement of joint United Kingdom-United States proposals to upgrade the facilities at Diego Garcia- to extend the runway by 2,000 feet and to provide refuelling and other facilities for naval vessels. While everybody supports the concept of the Indian Ocean being an area of peace, it is completely unreal to believe that it is or can be so long as the Russian naval presence continues. It will continue. There are no indications that the Russians intend to move out. All the indications are that they will be increasing their naval strength, particularly if the Suez Canal is reopened, as everybody anticipates, in about 12 months time. They will be able to reinforce the Indian Ocean fleet through the Canal from the Mediterranean fleet and save the long haul from the Baltic or from Vladivostok. In the SinoSoviet conflict this is one area of competition in which one can expect the Russians to maintain and increase their presence. 
I am amazed at the attack of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  upon this decision. No mention is made of the Russian base at Berbera in Somali which, as I understand it, is a far more sophisticated and militarily oriented base than Diego Garcia will ever be. We believe the Russians have all types of facilities at Berbera. There are indications that they have facilities in other areas. I am amazed at the attitude of some countries which are providing facilities for Russian naval vessels to this United KingdomUnited States decision and at the criticism of the decision. So I must say that the views of the Government would not be shared by the people of Western Australia who are very conscious of the fact that our coastline is washed by the waves of the Indian Ocean. I am not over-estimating the Russian presence- far from it. In military terms it is not a major presence at this moment. But the people of Western Australia are very conscious that out there there are Russian naval vessels. I believe that other countries in South East Asia are concerned also. They want to see, if the Russians are there, that others are there so that the Indian Ocean does not become a Russian lake. 
Perhaps the Government's attitude is an indication of the policy, which it proudly proclaims, of even handedness. I do not know what that means. Sometimes it seems to be 50-50 or one horse one rabbit- one horse for those who pose some future threat to us, and one rabbit for those who are our friends. I believe that in these 3 areas the Government deserves the condemnation of the Senate, and I have very much pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I ask the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is the report correct that the Australian Ambassador to the Khmer Republic has not returned to his post following leave in Australia? If the report is correct, is it the intention of the Government that the Ambassador return to his post in the near future? If not, will the Minister provide the Senate with the reasons? 
I thought that the Government wanted this Bill passed tonight. We are prepared to assist its passage. We have been treated to 30 minutes of irrelevancy by  Senator Milliner.  Perhaps the kindest thing that one could say about bis speech is that he made no contribution to the debate. There is no argument about the need to assist local government. We admit it. We recognise the need for the Australian Government to provide financial assistance to local government, but we challenge the need for this legislation which seeks a referendum to enable the Australian Government to provide this necessary need. Under section 96 of the Constitution power exists now for the Government to make to State governments certain grants. I quote section 96. It reads:   the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
This power gives the Federal Parliament the authority to make to State governments grants to reimburse local government. Therefore, I think that we are entitled to challenge the sincerity and the motives of the Government. There is no question that the power exists now. 1 have risen to speak tonight only because we have heard a great deal about mandates and about the Opposition challenging the Government's mandate to introduce this legislation. I pointed out yesterday that the Government may be able to argue that it has certain mandates. I also said that it has no mandate to do certain of the things it is doing. It has no mandate to diminish the responsibilities and powers of the State governments. It has no mandate to reduce our defence capacity to almost nil. It has no mandate to attack our rural industries. So let us be very careful when we talk about mandates. 
I will vote against this legislation not because I wish to deny to the people of Australia the right to decide on the issue involved but because I want to make it clear that I am not giving the seal of approval to the Government to bring in legislation, no matter how it is presented and for what motives it is presented, that will further diminish the powers and responsibilities of the State governments. I have just said that the local government authorities should be assisted, but they are best assisted through the State governments, which know the requirements and needs of the local government authorities within their State boundaries far better than would any centralised bureaucracy that is based in Canberra. If we suspect that the Government, which has demonstrated that it is power drunk, is using back door methods to diminish further the powers of the States we have complete justification for doing so. One has only to recall to mind that the platform of the Australian Labor Party quite clearly states that its objective is to abolish the State governments. One has only to recall the speeches in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has invited State Labor governments to destroy themselves to assist in the attaining of the Labor Party's objective. 
I pay tribute to the honesty of  Senator Wheeldon  who, during a television debate in Western Australia several months ago quite clearly, quite categorically and in a most honest manner said that he supported the Labor Party's platform concerning the abolition of the State governments. If the Opposition is suspicious about the motives of the Government, it is because we have every reason to be suspicious. If the proposed referendum were carried and the amendment to section 96 of the Constitution by the addition of the proposed section 96a were to become a feature of the Constitution, what would be the position of the local government authorities? We know what the position of the State governments is today under the present Government. They are being continually threatened and coerced to carry out the will of the Government that is based in Canberra. The proposed amendment states that the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any local government body on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. We know what is the objective of the Government. It is one House of Parliament for the whole of Australia. That is part of the Labor Party's platform. Of course, not many members of the Australian Labor Party are prepared to go to the people and seek a mandate for that proposal. It is only people like  Senator Wheeldon  who are honest enough to admit that this is the situation. 
I invite  Senator McLaren  to go out and proclaim that to the people of his State of South Australia during the forthcoming Senate election campaign. I also invite my Labor Party colleagues from Western Australia to stand up during the forthcoming Senate election campaign and proclaim the true objectives of the Labor Party. I challenge them to do it. I know that they have not got the guts to do it. If the Government were to achieve its objective and were to make grants to local government authorities on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit the local government authorities would become the creature of the centralised bureaucracy in Canberra. I think it was  Senator Milliner  who said that the whole objective is to grant to the local government authorities greater responsibilities for the spending of money. In view of the platform of the Labor Party I say that that is arrant humbug. He knows very well what are the policies and objectives of his Party. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman was generous enough to say that at the invitation of the Local Government Association in Western Australia I went to one of its meetings to answer questions concerning the Government's proposals. The Government was asked to send along representatives, but they were conspicuous by their absence. After I had explained in, I think, simple and truthful terms what  Mr Whitlam  had said and what the policies of the Labor Party were there was immediate opposition to the whole of the Government's proposals. The local government authorities saw quite clearly that they would be formed into some great regional body which would be the creature of Canberra. That was clear to them all. As greater awareness develops, as it is developing now, of the real objectives of the Government there will be no possibility of the people of Australia accepting this proposal. 
I am prepared to assist the Government in getting a decision on this legislation tonight, despite the wasting of half an hour by  Senator Milliner,  but I wish to place on record my complete and utter opposition to this proposal on the grounds that I have stated. If it is put to the people as a referendum proposal it will not have my seal of approval. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the United States Government has complained to the Australian Government about a lack of diplomatic security in Australia. In view of previously reported leaks of confidential discussions between the Australian Government and other governments, does the Australian Government regard such complaints seriously? What action does the Government propose to take to safeguard confidential communications between Governments? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Government of the People's Republic of China protest about the reporting by Australian journalists based in that country of interesting events now developing. 
What form did the protest take. 
Did the Australian Government inform the Government of the People's Republic of China that it defends the right of Australian journalists to report events free from coercion or threats. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the report that Japan has requested Australia to act as as honest broker between Japan and China. From whom did this request come, if it did come? Did it come from the Foreign Ministry or the Foreign Office? To whom was the request made? If the request was made to a person other than an officer of the Australian Embassy, was an officer of the Embassy present at the time the request was made? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government's opposition to atmospheric nuclear testing based on moral grounds as well as the possible effect of the testing upon health? Is it a fact that fall-out from the Chinese tests has been detected in Australia and the Pacific area? If so, will the Minister explain why Australia opposed the inclusion of China in a protest against atmospheric nuclear testing which was issued by the South Pacific Forum? 
-I always feel a little bit sorry for the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  when he is trying to defend the indefensible. The Minister avoided, in the main, the charges levelled by  Senator Withers.  I will refer to one- the naval facility at Cockburn Sound. The Minister said that work has not been stopped there. Surely the Minister will not deny that work has been slowed down to such an extent that the completion of this facility will be put back some two or three years.  Senator Withers,  in his opening remarks, referred to the cynical and hypocritical approach of this Government to its responsibilities. Nothing illustrates this more than the field of defence. We have been bombarded by the Government with accusations about the actions of the Opposition in refusing to allow the Government to carry out its electoral mandates. If there is one electoral mandate the Government has not honoured it is that the Government clearly undertook not to reduce defence expenditure below the figure of between 3.2 per cent and 3.5 per cent of the gross national product. What was the first action the Government took when it assumed office? It reduced the figure to about 2.9 per cent. That alone is a breach of an electoral mandate for which it deserves the condemnation of the Senate. 
I wish to speak very quickly this afternoon about the strategic assessments upon which the Government bases its decision to run down the Australian defence capacity. The Minister, assisting the Minister for Defence, used the words, I think, 'the favourable strategic situation'. I challenge it. Even if it was correct when the assessment was made some 12 months ago, the question we ask is: Is it correct now? The Government based its defence policy on an assessment that the world was moving towards stability, that the situation in South East Asia was stabilising and that there was no discernible threat for a period of 10 or 15 years ahead. I ask again: Was that assessment correct? If it was correct then, is it correct now? If it was correct then, and it is not correct now, the Government is placing Australia in jeopardy. Did the strategic assessment state that a war in the Middle East was likely? Did it assess the energy crisis which at one stage brought the 2 super powers into confrontation? Were these assessments made? I do not think they were. 
I challenge the wisdom of basing a defence policy on assumptions. Forecasting events has always been notoriously dangerous. I believe that for the Government to accept or to place the interpretation on the defence assessment which it has placed, that there is no foreseeable threat for 15 years ahead, is both naive and dangerous. The first point that I want to make- and the Minister referred to it- is that because there is no identifiable threat, this does not mean that there is no threat. Threats can arise suddenly, as the Middle East situation clearly indicated and as the energy crisis indicated, or with very little warning. History is full of such lessons. The lessons of history clearly prove the folly of basing defence policies upon long term or even short term assessments. But even if it were true that there is no discernible threat for 10 or 15 years, now is the time to prepare defence planning for an eventuality which may occur in 10 or 15 years time- not in 10 years time or when the threat becomes discernible. 
I challenge the concept that last year, when the assessment was made, the world was moving towards detente or stability. There may have been some encouraging signs- but what was the situation? The world was dominated by the SinoSoviet dispute, and the possibilities of conflict between these two great powers create uncertainties and conflicts throughout the world: In Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Indian subcontinent, the Indian Ocean, South-East Asia and the Pacific. All indications are that competition is more likely to increase than diminish. Russia fears China's nuclear capacity in the 1980s and China has a continued fear of a preemptive nuclear strike by Russia. This all adds dangerous dimensions to this dispute. The Chinese-United States detente, so-called, is far from complete. It is based mainly on China's fear of Russia and there are, unfortunately, growing signs of increasing tension. In today's issue of the 'Australian' is a report of a statement by the Chinese Premier Chou En-lai at a State banquet for a Cambodian communist leader which I quote: 
The revolutionary people do not at all believe in so-called lasting peace or a generation of peace.'  Mr Chou  said. 'So long as imperialism exists, revolution and war are inevitable'. 
This is a statement by the Prime Minister of a country which  Mr Whitlam  called 'a peace loving country'. He would be a brave man indeed who could look to the future of Chinese-United States relations with increasing confidence. There are, I repeat, signs of increasing tensions. Europe, mainly because of the energy crisis, is in disarray; the Atlantic Alliance is under great strain; United States-Russian relations have not improved. I think that we are all discouraged to learn that  Dr Kissinger's  latest mission to the Soviet Union did not achieve the hoped for results and that the Russian position is obviously hardening, no doubt because of the domestic situation in the United States and the disunity in Europe. 
In the Indian Ocean- and  Senator Withers  referred to this- we see a growing build-up of the Russian naval strength to an extent where Russia is the dominant naval power in the Indian Ocean. I am not trying to encourage panic. It is not a major threat; the Russians do not threaten anybody through their naval power- but they are an influence and they are there partly to extend their global influence and, secondly, of course, as a continuing counter to Chinese influence. Whether we like it or not the Indian Ocean is an area of big power conflict. I think it is an absolutely extraordinary attitude for the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  a Western Australian Minister, to adopt by immediately attacking the United States-United Kingdom agreement to extend facilities at Diego Garcia. The Government has protested to both the United States and Russia but I would have thought more of the Government if it had protested to Russia much earlier, when it was building up its naval strength. The opening of the Suez Canal will mean that the flexibility of Russian naval manoeuvre becomes so much greater. 
The economic power of Japan is casting uncertainty over South-East Asia. China's future policies to which I referred briefly, and her future leadership are unknown. The cultural revolution in China continues unabated. The 10th Congress which was held recently showed no signs of moderation; indeed, it indicated a continuing hard line. One fears the judgment of the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  on China. It seems to be affected by his amorous affair with the present Chinese leaders and with China as a whole. What Chou En-lai said cannot give any of us very much comfort. Chinese leaders believe in revolution. They have a fanatical wish to lead world revolution, a wish which they proclaim loudly and often. No one knows what will be the future direction of China's policies. As the cultural revolution continues, however, we can be sure that those policies, as always under those circumstances, will become more hard line. 
I say very briefly, because my time has nearly expired, that this indicates that the global situation is far from one of stability. Indeed, the indications unfortunately are that it may be one of growing instability. In South-East Asia the Indo-China war continues unabated, and no one knows what the result there will be. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  believes that there is growing stability in South-East Asia, I am sure that on his trip to South-East Asia he learned from the South-East Asian leaders that they do not believe there is growing stability in the area. I recommend to Government senators that they read the Dyason Memorial Lectures delivered by  Mr S.  Rajaratnum, the Foreign Minister of Singapore. I wish to refer very quickly to 2 things that he said. In dealing with the situation in South-East Asia he said that he does not believe that the great powers will leave South-East Asians to solve the problems of South-East Asia in their own way and in their own time. He went on: 
Personally I should like to believe this, but there are many other miracles of comparable magnitude I should like to believe in but cannot rationally do. 
All the indications are, of course, of growing competition or influence between Russia and China in South-East Asia.  Mr Rajaratnum  further stated: 
If power is defined, as it should be, not merely as military power but as economic power and cultural attraction as well, then what is likely to emerge in South-East Asia is a multiple system of great power balance. These powers will contest for influence in the region because its strategic importance and its great economic potential have not been diminished in any way as a result of the detente and dimantling of the Cold War structure. 

 Mr Rajaratnum there sees continuing big power competition and conflict in South-East Asia. Here is a situation that is volatile; in fact the world situation is volatile. Any realistic assessmentI stress the words 'realistic assessment'indicates continuing instability both in the global sense and in the regional sense. Defence policies should not be based upon wishful thinking but rather on an assessment of the situation in the world which at present is one of flux and uncertainty. This must be the basis of our planning, not assumptions of either assured dangers or assured safety. It is not confused situations that are likely to lead us to disaster, rather it is confused minds, and we have plenty of confused minds in the Australian Government at the present time. Any realistic assessment of the world situation and the regional situation makes nonsense of any assessment based upon no foreseeable threat for 10 or 15 years. In 1914 Lloyd George said that the situation had never been brighter. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs advise the Senate of the date upon which  Mr Brennan,  Ambassador to Ireland, was advised of his appointment as Ambassador to Switzerland? When was the Government of Switzerland requested to approve the appointment? When was the Executive Council approval given to  Mr Brennan  's appointment? Is  Mr Brennan  still Ambassador to Ireland? If so, when does he relinquish his appointment? 
I wish to speak for only a moment to say how delighted I am that the Government has seen fit to name the new division Tangney after a former very distinguished honourable senator of this chamber. I have maintained a very close contact with Dame Dorothy since she left here. I was speaking to her only last Saturday when she expressed her great delight at this honour. I thought I should say to the Senate that she has been in rather poor health for some time. She has been very unwell but I am sure that this honour will do a lot to improve her health. She retains her tremendous sense of humour and great cheerfulness. She still takes a tremendous interest in what goes on in the Senate, and she does a tremendous amount of good for people who continually come to her for assistance. I think this is a well earned tribute to a very gracious lady and a very distinguished Western Australian. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Government let a contract for the supply of concrete sleepers to the Commonwealth Railways? Was the Western Australian timber industry invited to submit a tender? Is the report correct that a concrete plant to supply concrete sleepers to the Commonwealth Railways is being established at Kalgoorlie? 
I join my colleagues in protesting at the impertinence of this statement. As  Senator Withers  said, it was born in haste. It is nothing more than an election gimmick. I think they are the words which he used. I think my colleagues have amply demonstrated the truth of that statement. I suppose that if we look at this Government's sorry record we should be thankful for small mercieswe should be thankful that at least it is recognising some need, small as it apparently is. This statement is, I think, best examined from the point of view not of what it contains but of what it does not contain. Quite apart from the garbage which the Government continually repeats that we are living in a period of tranquility I will deal with that in a moment- the statement talks about a low threat. One wonders who wrote this nonsense for the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  He said: 
Threat does not arise readily or without warning. 
I think  Senator Carrick  referred to a threat which arose suddenly and without warning in the Middle East only last October. It brought the world to the verge of war, when the United States Mediterranean forces and the United States nuclear strike force were put on immediate alert in response to a Russian threat to send divisions of troops to Egypt. That threat arose suddenly and without warning. It was followed by the energy crisis which had the effect of creating threat and instability throughout the world. No one knows where this will end. 
That is the type of inane comment that we expect from  Senator O'Byrne.  He never lets us down. We expect it, and we always get it from him. 
I wish to refer to 2 or 3 notable omissions from the statement. The first is that there is no mention of artillery. I think  Senator Carrick  mentioned this. Our artillery is outmoded and outgunned. We are in urgent need of new artillery for our armed forces, but there is no mention of that in the statement. Apparently in the haste with which it was prepared this was overlooked. We are told that we will purchase 53 tanks. That is a big deal. Indicative of the haste and the lack of thought is the fact that we do not know what type of tank will be purchased. Either the M60 or the Leopard will be purchased. The Government has not had time to make up its mind. Let us assume that we are to get 53 tanks. It will be some years ahead- in the next 7 or 8 years, presumably. They will go to Puckapunyal. How will they be transported to any part of Australia where they may be needed? Today there is no means of transporting them. I think there are 32 transporters to transport our 120 Centurions. The new tanks would certainly need transporting because they could not go on their own tracks. They could hardly leave the workshops. HMAS Sydney', which is the only vessel capable of moving equipment and troops, has been scrapped. There is no indication in this so called defence statement- this non-defence statement by a non-Defence Minister- of any type of vessel which is capable of moving not only our forces but their equipment. It must be of great comfort to those people living in Western Australia to know that although it is suddenly announced that  in due course  we are to have some 53 tanks we have no means of moving them. They will simply have to rattle along on their tracks to get across the Nullabor Plain, because there is no ship- merchant ship or any other ship- in Australia capable of transporting heavy equipment. 
Around the coast. 
-Senator O'Byrne asks: 'Why do they not go on the land?' This is the type of intelligent statement that we see right throughout this defence statement. 
We will come to that in a moment. I do not want to speak for too long and repeat what has been said so effectively by my colleagues. Then it is proposed to purchase some maritime aircraft to replace the 12 aging Neptunes. That is a big deal. We are to purchase eight of these maritime aircraft but this statement has been prepared in such haste that we are not told what type will be purchased. The Government has not made a decision as to the type; it could be the Nimrod or it could be something else. We do not know. We do not even know when they will be purchased. As we go through this defence statement piece by piece we can see the gimmickry in it; we can see the whole falseness of it. It is a statement made by a government that has proved itself to be a corrupt government and a government that is trying to mislead the people. 
We are faced at the present time with the increasing Russian build up in the Indian Ocean. With the opening of the Suez Canal, which is being hastened, of course the flexibility of the Russian Mediterranean fleet to move into the Indian Ocean will be greatly increased. In response to the increasing build up of the Russian naval strength in that area the United States made some arrangements with the United Kingdom to upgrade the facilities on Diego Garcia. What is happening? The interest that this Government has in the defence of the western side of our continent was displayed when the Minister for. Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee),  who is a Western Australian senator, announced that the Government was protesting to the United States because the United States was responding to the increased Russian naval strength in the Indian Ocean. The Government's contempt for the defence of our western seaboard is indicated also by the slow-down in the construction of the base at Cockburn Sound. There will be a delay in this project of something like 3 years. In the face of a growing Russian build up in the Indian Ocean the Government's response is to slow down the development of the only naval facility on our western seaboard. 
We can go through this defence statement step by step to prove the insincerity of this Government. On what is the statement based? The Minister repeats in the statement the worn-out strategic assessment that did not recognise the possibility of war in the Middle East and did not recognise the energy crisis. History teaches us that such strategic assessments have always been wrong.  Senator Carrick  referred to Lloyd George, to Pitt and to Chamberlain. We could go right through history. 
And Curtin when he followed Chamberlain. We do not blame the Government because it has never been right. It is a pity that the minister did not refer to the fact- maybe he did not have time to think about it- that he commissioned a committee chaired by  Dr Millar  to examine the Citizen Military Forces. The Government has to a great degree accepted the Millar report and, presumably, it has accepted the strategic considerations contained in that report. 
I have said that the Government does intend to buy 2 ships and 8 maritime aircraft. That is wonderful. But do not forget it has disbanded 77 Squadron and scrapped HMAS 'Sydney'. I congratulate the Government on accepting the main recommendations of the Millar report. But if I were to read pages 27 to 34 of the report which carry the heading 'Strategic Considerations' they would make complete nonsense of the defence statement. 
I have read it, and that is what horrifies me. Goodness me, I have read it. It ignores all the simple facts of the strategic situation. Not one mention is made in the statement of the Sino-Soviet dispute which, as I said the other day, is creating conflicts and uncertainties throughout the world. No mention is made of the dangerous possibilities inherent in that dispute. No mention is made of the events taking place in China today. During the period when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was having an amorous love affair with the Chinese leaders he referred to China as that peaceful nation. Only a day or two ago I quoted a statement made by Chou En-lai. In a statement which was an implicit attack upon  President  Nixon's statement about there being a generation of peace, Chou En-lai said that revolutions and wars will continue. The events in China today do not give us any reason to feel confident about the future of China's policies, and  Dr Millar  recognises this. In his report he refers to the Paracels, the Spratlys and other areas of possible conflict in the China Sea. 
Let me take two or three quotations from  Dr Millar's  report. After dealing with those areas of conflict and the grounds on which some people argue that the world situation is stabilising,  Dr Millar  said in paragraph 2.6 on page 28 of his report: 
While not discounting any of these considerations, we also cannot set aside others which tend in different directions. Historically, governments embarking on war have often done so in the face of what seems to outsiders or even to many of their own citizens to be logical, sensible, or profitable. lt has to be demonstrated that modern governments make wiser decisions than their predecessors. 
To make complete nonsense of the Minister's statement that we are living in a period of tranquillity, let me refer to paragraph 2.8 of  Dr Millar's  report. In that paragraph he sets out a number of wars and conflicts that have taken place since 1 948. Let me say also that in spite of the Minister's reference to a period of tranquillitythat is a wonderful phrase- fighting is still occurring in the middle East and no one can say with any assurance that war may not break out in the Middle East again, with all the consequences that may flow from it. Fighting is continuing in Indo-China where 13 or 14 regular divisions of the North Vietnamese army are stationed on South Vietnamese soil. They still seek, and they announce that they seek, a military solution. No one can see the end of that war or the possibilities that will flow from it. Although the Minister speaks of a period of tranquillity, there is no tranquillity. That is garbage and nothing but garbage, but it is dangerous garbage which could easily mislead people. But it did not mislead  Dr Millar,  because in paragraph 2.10 of his report he states: 
Changes in the pattern of power between the largest states do not seem to have reduced the incidence, or the level of violence, of these lesser hostilities. Whether such changes have reduced the likelihood of major war is impossible to determine. 
He then goes on to deal more fully with that particular subject. In paragraph 2. 1 1 he states: 
We are not, therefore, living either in a region or a period of international stability. Quite the contrary. 
These are the strategic considerations in the report of  Dr Millar's  committee of inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces, and the Government has accepted that report. I wonder whether the Government accepted  Dr Millar's  strategic considerations. 
There is just one other notable omission from this so-called defence statement. It is an item of defence equipment in regard to which there is an urgent need for the Government to make a decision. This is particularly so if the Government believes, as it states, that the defence forces should be prepared for continental war, that is, war within Australia. I refer to the urgent need for a close support aircraft. We have no close support aircraft. If operations were conducted on the north-west coast of Australia the range and armament of the Mirage aircraft which is not a close support aircraft- in fact, it is too valuable to be used for this purpose- are incapable of providing the type of support that our armed forces would require. I hope that the Minister for Repatriation who is at the table will draw the attention of the Minister for Defence to the urgent need for a close support aircraft. 
I do not intend to repeat  Senator Carrick  's comments about the Army. He referred to the reduction in strength of the Army to 6 battalions each comprising 3 companies. The Minister has said that we want a corps which is capable of rapid expansion. This Army of 6 under-strength battalions consisting of under-strength sub-units is simply not capable of rapid expansion. The Chief of the Generalf Staff made that clear when he dissented from the report. He wanted 9 battalions, not six. I do not believe that any military expert would accept that this so-called Army is capable of rapid expansion. Even the Government admits that it may be necessary at some time in the far distant future for the Army to expand rapidly. 
I join with my colleagues in condemning the statement as being one unworthy of any Australian Government. Obviously, the decisions were made in haste and the statement was drawn up in haste because of the electoral situation facing the Government. The Government deserves the condemnation not only of the Parliament but also of the people of Australia. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Do travel restrictions apply to Chinese diplomats in Australia? If restrictions do apply, how many Chinese diplomats have been granted permission to travel beyond the limits imposed, and for what reasons? Do travel restrictions apply to Australian diplomats in Peking? 
Yes. I wish to speak very briefly in support of the amendment because Western Australia is a State which is probably more affected by legislation of this kind than any other State, although I acknowledge that Victoria, Queensland and the other States are affected to a greater or lesser extent. This is a typical example of legislation which was introduced not because of any electoral mandate but because of the dictatorial and socialist attitude of an incompetent and arrogant Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who wishes to take over the whole of the minerals and petroleum industry in Australia. In support of his case he gives misleading and inaccurate information. For example, in an article by David Solomon in the 'Canberra Times' which was quoted by the spokesman for the Opposition in another place,  Mr Fairbairn,  it was stated that only 40 off-shore wells had been drilled in the previous 10 years." This appeared under a heading of 'off-shore boom'. The article stated that 54 wells were to be drilled in the coming year. This is big stuff. But what are the facts? The simple facts are that in that 10-year period 189 wells were drilled off-shore from mobile platforms and another 100 wells were drilled offshore from fixed platforms. So in the vicinity of 300 wells were drilled and not 40 as the Minister would have us believe in an attempt to mislead the people of Australia and to gain support for this legislation. This is an example of the actions of this incompetent Minister who will go to any lengths to mislead the people. 
He misled the people as to the amount of foreign capital or foreign control involved in our mineral resources. The whole of his case has been built upon misleading and inaccurate information. But one of my main objections to this legislation is that it takes away from the States areas, which by right, are their responsibility. If the Senate has a major function it is that of protecting the powers of the States and not supporting legislation which diminishes those powers or takes them away altogether. If the lessons of the past are any example- I believe that they arethen the off-shore program of drilling and search for oil in Australia under the previous Administration was a very successful one. The record under this Government has been lamentable. It has destroyed confidence. The Government has driven away capital which is so urgently required. Of course this has been going to other countries where the guidelines and the rules are known. Here the guidelines and the rules are a day to day decision of a dictatorial and arrogant Minister. The reintroduction of this legislation after one week is the action of a frightened and frustrated Government. The Minister has shown his contempt for the States and for industry. Nothing illustrates the frustrations of State governments better than the comments of Ministers of the previous Government in Western Australia. I refer to the attack made upon the Federal Government by  Mr Bickerton  who for the first time was defeated in the Pilbara seat. I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  not to point a finger at me or I will point one back at him. 
We can talk about kangaroos. I am very happy to talk about kangaroos but do not let us be misled at the moment. We are talking about something which is perhaps even more important.  Mr Bickerton  is the only Minister to lose his seat for 30-odd years in Western Australia. He put the blame fairly upon the policies and attitudes of the Federal Government in relation to investment which he regarded as being crazy.  Mr May,  a former Minister for Mines, supported a leader of the mining industry who, in the strongest possible terms, condemned the policy of this Government. Even  Mr Tonkin  had some very critical things to say about the policies of the Federal Government in relation to investment in Western Australia. He went on record as saying in words of one syllable that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was a liability when he went to Western Australia in support of the Tonkin Government. He said he warned the Prime Minister not to come. 
If the Leader of the Government wants to challenge this statement I suggest that he have a talk to  Mr Tonkin  because he is on record as saying this. I support the amendment. I believe that it puts the facts clearly on record. The Government cannot claim to have an electoral mandate. When it suits the Government it makes great play of some matters but, when it does not suit, it conveniently forgets. It did not have an electoral mandate to reduce defence expenditure from 3.5 per cent to 2.8 per cent because the Prime Minister, in his policy speech, promised not to reduce expenditure below 3.5 per cent. Promptly the Government reduced the expenditure to 2.8 per cent. So I think we have to be very careful about accepting any Government claim that it has an electoral mandate. It certainly does not have an electoral mandate to socialise the oil and gas industry. Therefore I support the amendment and I defend the right of the Senate to throw out this legislation or, in this case, to defer it for another 6 months. I support the amendment on one major ground and that is in order to defend the rights of the States which, under our Constitution, to a very large degree have powers and responsibilities in this matter. 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refer to the recent atmospheric nuclear tests conducted by France and the People's Republic of 
China. As the Australian Government is unable to take action against China in the World Court as it can against France, will the Leader of the Government request the Prime Minister to consider instructing the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, to cancel his planned visit to China to open the Peking fair as a form of protest? Would the Leader of the Government regard such a step as an effective form of protest at China's continuing and callous disregard of the welfare of its people and of the people of the world? Does the Leader of the Government believe the Chinese Government will take more notice of  Dr Cairn's  plaintive protest than it did of the Prime Minister's? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It follows a question asked by my colleague  Senator Jessop.  I refer again to the provocative statement by left wing Australian Labor Party official  Mr Hartley  that a terrorist organisation, the Palestine Liberation Organisation, which is responsible for murder and violence in many parts of the world, is considering establishing an information office in Australia and that it would be accorded diplomatic privilege. Will the Minister assure the Parliament that in no circumstances will the Government tolerate this unsavoury gang establishing an office in Australia? 

 - Mr President, I wish to congratulate you on your election to the very high office of  President  and to congratulate  Senator Webster  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. I would like to say also how impressed I have been with the maiden speeches of senators from both sides of the chamber. They certainly augur well for the maintenance of the very high standard of debates which has been characteristic of this chamber, in spite of what was said tonight by another  speaker.  The honourable senator who has just sat down,  Senator Keeffe,  likes to refer to those who oppose him as belonging to the 14th, 1 5th or some other century. He always reminds me of prehistoric man. I do not think that it is normal to refer to the maiden speech of a senator. However, tonight  Senator Steele  Hall made a very strong attack upon honourable senators on this side of the House. All I wish to say to the socalled leader of a so-called party who bitterly attacked us for having no policy and for lack of judgment is that I did not hear his policy for overcoming inflation. It rather reminded me of a remark made by a distinguished member of the House of Commons,  Sir Winston  Churchill, who said about an honourable member of that House that he had sat on the fence so long the iron truth had entered his soul.  Senator Steele  Hall has reached the stage where he cannot distinguish the rust from the iron. 
Having said that I wish to go back to the important question of inflation. One of the great problems we face is that people have come to believe that inflation is beyond control. Yet inflation is man made and it can be controlled by man. One of the great problems we face is that inflation has not been explained in terms that the people can understand. 
I am prepared to do so. I am sorry. My time is very limited; otherwise we might have a discussion about that. It has not been explained in terms that people can understand. During the election campaign it became confused. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said the great issue was not inflation but multinational companies. I was reminded by my colleague,  Senator Wood,  a few minutes ago that the Australian Labor Party relied upon a foreign owned company in the last 2 elections to manage its election propaganda. I suggest that it should start at home. However, during the election the question became confused. It was only when the truth was brought home to the Prime Minister that inflation was an issue that he began to recognise it. It became a great confidence trick because he assured the people that it was not too bad, that there would be no unemployment, that it was under control, that interest rates would not rise and so on. However, we know the history. 
I do not want to speak about this. I want to say that inflation can be controlled and that the Government, principally, but the Opposition too, has a responsibility to put the issue to the people of Australia in simple terms, in a language the people can understand. The people believe that inflation is a problem of government. It is not only a problem of government. Certainly governments have a major responsibility, but inflation can be solved only if its solution becomes a whole community effort, from the Federal Government, State governments, local authorities and the people. It cannot be solved otherwise. The problem is too great to be solved merely by some government action. The situation is grave and can be saved only if the Government, supported by the Opposition, is honest and frank with the people of Australia and if the Government, the Opposition and the Parliaments know where they are going. This requires a total effort. Above all it requires courageous and honest leadership at all levels- not only Federal, State and local authorities but throughout the community. 
A great responsibility rests mainly upon the Government, but also upon every one of us, I believe, to give leadership so that inflation is recognised for what it is. I believe that this is the great problem and the great challenge that we face. I say with the greatest good will that the Government is failing. Maybe we have all failed but the Government is failing. We hear of squabbles. We hear the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  saying there is a danger of unemployment, and the Prime Minister saying there is no danger. I am not saying this as carping criticism. All I am saying is that it requires courageous and honest leadership and a declaration of where we are going. If this is not shown at any level of government, the people will suffer loss of confidence, and leadership will not be seen and example will not be set. What is required is united leadership. We want no divisions or selfishness. We want nobody to act for his own selfish interest, and we do not want various pressure groups in the community concerned only with their own welfare and interest. This is the responsibility of government. I regret to say that there is no sign yet that the Government is prepared to give that leadership and to set the example. 
I refer to the speech that was delivered by  His Excellency  the Governor-General on behalf of the Government. Inflation was recognised as a great issue but occupied only a few lines. Yet the Prime Minister said today, belatedly, that it is the greatest issue. The opening of this Parliament presented a wonderful opportunity to set an example by providing in the GovernorGeneral's Speech the type of leadership the community requires. I regret that this was not done. The way economists speak about inflation is terribly confusing; not many of us can understand it. But put in simple terms as an economist put it the other day- some are sensible and logical- it is this: 'Rising prices are caused by attempts by the people as a whole to have a higher standard of living than the economy can afford '. This is why 1 referred to selfishness in the community. Naturally everybody wants more; everybody wants improved standards and wants them quickly. This is understandable. But the people must be told in firm language that they can understand that all things cannot be done at once, that if an attempt is made to do them all at once there is a price to pay, and that price is inflation. The people who suffer most from inflation are those who can least afford it. We do not want people to be seeking aggrandisement. We want people who are honestly prepared to tell the public the problems and how they can be overcome. I can appreciate the demand for higher wages, but here is a failing in union leadership. The simple basic truth is that if wages rise by 20 per cent and productivity by 5 per cent somebody has to pay for it. There is a gap of 1 5 per cent. That gap will be paid for by the trade unionists and other sections of the community. In fact, more is paid because if wages rise by 15 per cent and productivity does not increase by 15 per cent, other factors such as higher taxation come into it. In fact, people have less. Because they have less, naturally there is a demand for an increased wage. 
I say honestly that, amongst many sections of the community, unions are failing their members and leaders of industry are also failing because nobody is prepared to tell the hard, cold truth. If we are to overcome inflation sacrifices have to be made and people must understand why sacrifices have to be made. This is not happening. The Government, leaders of industry and trade unions are not only failing their own members but also failing Australia. The public must be told. Members of the public must stop demanding more and stop demanding that the Government spend more. Unless productivity is raised the Government cannot meet the demands of the community without lowering the standards of the community. Today more commissions are being set up willy-nilly by the Government which is wanting to placate every section of the community by offering more and more. Increases are pretty easy to get. Some people think that the Government has to pay for them. People have to be told in plain language that the Government has no money of its own. The people must be told that they have to pay. They are paying today by having to accept lower standards of living. One hopes this will not lead to growing unemployment. 
Not enough money is available today for everything we all want to be done. We all want to see improved standards of living and we all want to see better education, roads, hospitals and so on. We all share in that view. If these conditions are to be achieved without the money being readily available we pay the price and we have to ask ourselves whether that price is worth paying. One of the great troubles- I referred to it a few minutes ago- is the fact that the community effort is required. The co-operation of 
State governments is required. At the recent Premiers' Conference the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did not seek co-operation. He sought confrontation and he got nowhere. Even  Mr Dunstan  was bitter in his criticism of the Prime Minister. The Premiers of all political parties met this week- I give them full credit for doing so- and presented the Government a plan of their willing co-operation. I only hope that the Prime Minister is big enough to stop the arrogance of believing that a centralised government can control everything. The demand that he should control everything is wrong. He should accept the offer of the Premiers to co-operate to overcome this problem. When the Premiers and the Prime Minister meet in a fortnight's time they should be prepared to tell the people of Australia frankly what the problem is. It requires the co-operation of government at all levels and the full support of the community before this problem can be overcome. 
There is a lot more I wish to say on this subject but I know that the Senate wishes to proceed to a vote. I believe that it is the responsibility of the Government, the Opposition, and all State governments and local authorities to work together. The major responsibility rests upon the Prime Minister and this Government to stop squabbling amongst themselves and to present a united front and together with the States to outline to the people of Australia in a language which they can understand what the challenge is. I believe that when the facts are presented to the people of Australia they will accept them and we will go a long way to overcoming this problem. My final plea is for productivity. When we accept that one of the answers- not the only answer- is to increase productivity we will produce more. Everybody should produce more. 
I ask  Senator Poyser  not to come up with his nonsense. The United Kingdom is one of the greatest examples in the world of a crisis situation. It is a welfare state. No one will work. This country has set an example over several hundred years. We know the problems it faces. We are going to face these problems unless we wake up to the fact that one of the keys to the solution is productivity. I finish with this plea: For goodness sake stop all this nonsense about not having to work and the less work we do the better off we will be. The only answer is more work and better work. We will then start to control this problem. 
Question put. 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Withers' amendment)  be so added. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the report that as a protest against French atmospheric nuclear tests the Prime Minister refused to accept an invitation from the French Ambassador to celebrate France's national day. If the report is correct will the Prime Minister protest in a similar way against the Chinese atmospheric nuclear tests by refusing any invitation to attend receptions given by the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China until such time as China discontinues atmospheric nuclear tests, thereby demonstrating the Government's much vaunted evenhandedness? 
It is a great pity that  Senator Steele  Hall's experiences appear to have scarred his soul. He seems to have come to this place with a gigantic chip on his shoulder and this seems to have had some grave effect upon his logic. Despite his comments, I intend to oppose this Bill and to vote against it. I am not voting against electoral reform. We should look at what the Government is attempting to reform. Despite the Government's honeyed and pious words in the second reading speech which tried to indicate that it has some dedication to parliamentary democracy, this Bill is not intended to produce a just and equitable electoral system. We should ignore also the vitriolic attack by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  supported by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  on the present electoral system. I commend to  Senator Steele  Hall an examination of the facts. When they are examined one can conclude only that the purpose of the highly emotional nature of the attacks is to deceive electors as to the true intentions of the Government. 
The essential test of an electoral system is its fairness. The test of fairness is whether the party that polls a majority of votes wins a majority of seats. I do not think that anybody would deny the fairness of that test. Before we come to that question and test it, let me say that it is never possible, it never has been possible and it never will be possible to ensure that the value of a single vote is the same in every electorate. All electorates could be even on a certain day, but they would vary greatly within months. I will quote statistics to prove that point. Some electorates grow, others decline and some remain stagnant. I shall quote the population increases in one or two selected electorates. Between 1968 and 1972 the increase in the electorate of Chifley was 41.2 per cent, in Mackellar it was 24.2 per cent and m Robertson it was 36.3 per cent. In Victoria, in Bruce, the seat which is held by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the increase was 30.9 per cent and in Flinders it was 32.3 per cent. In Stirling in Western Australia the increase was 30.6 per cent. I shall quote now some enrolment decreases for the same period. The population of Grayndler, the seat of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  decreased by 12. 13 percent. 
Yes, people wanted to leave the electorate. In 1968 it was 14.01 per cent above the quota. In 1972 the enrolments were 7.77 per cent below the quota. In Sydney the enrolment decline between 1968 and 1972 was 13.45 per cent. It was 13.56 per cent above the quota in 1968, and 9.5 1 per cent below in 1972. 1 could give other examples. All these divisions were created with an excess of 10 per cent of the quota in 1 968. The latter ones which I have mentioned have now lost population and are at the point at which they would be below a quota worked out on the enrolment figures at the time of the 1972 election. 
It is quite clear that, with the wide variations of population increases and decreases in Australia, a tolerance of more than the proposed 10 per cent is necessary if distortions and inequities are to be avoided. On those figures, the 20 per cent tolerance is necessary to enable commissioners to judge enrolment trends and to move towards, not away from, quotas. It is rather interesting to note that the former Labor Government in Western Australia, on the advice of the State Redistribution Commissioners, amended the electoral legislation to increase the tolerance from 10 per cent to 20 per cent because they found the same problems that we are finding in the Federal sphere. 
The northern seats are separate cases. They are fixed by legislation which no government, Liberal or Labor, has attempted to alter. I think it is also worth noting that the maximum tolerance is used only in exceptional cases. A perusal of the statistics shows that after the 1968 redistribution only 6 seats were given enrolments 15 per cent above or below the quota. We have seen what happened to some of those seats. Twenty-seven seats were given enrolments in excess of 10 per cent but less than 15 per cent. Ninety seats were within 10 per cent above or below the quota. It is completely misleading and, 1 might say, dishonest for the Government to argue that the present Act is designed to permit gross inequalities which favour one side of politics or the other. It is a completely false argument. 
The record shows that the present system produced a fair result. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  gave some figures covering the years 1949 to 1972. He said that only once in that period, in 1954, did the Labor Party receive more than 50 per cent of the votes and not form a government.  His  figures are worth quoting again. At the last election the Labor Party received 49.3 per cent of the votes and won 51.96 per cent of the seats. I am sorry that  Senator Steele  Hall is not here to say whether such a result shows that the system is in need of reform. Perhaps the Opposition should say that that is unfair and that that result indicates gross inequalities. If my memory is correct the Australian Labor Party obtained 49.9 per cent of the vote in the previous election in 1972 and won just over 52 per cent of the seats. Is that unfair? Does that indicate gross inequalities and distortions? If it does let the Labor Party say so. In the last election the Liberal and Country Parties received 45.6 per cent of the formal votes and won 48.03 per cent of the seats. Is that fair? We have no quarrel with that result. The figures expressed as a ratio of the percentage of seats to the percentage of votes are 1.0539 for the Labor Party and 1.0526 for the Liberal and Country Parties. Surely that is as close to an equitable result as one could wish. Indeed it slightly favours the Australian Labor Party. Again I ask the Government: What quarrels does it have with those figures? Let us have a look at the Western Australian result.  Senator Withers  has referred to the fact that the Liberal and Country Parties received 52 per cent of the vote in Western Australia and the Labor Party received 46.3 per cent. 
I am not going to quibble over little things like that. Only mean minds would quibble over little things like that. I repeat for  Senator McLaren's  benefit that the Liberal and Country Parties received 52 per cent of the vote in Western Australia and the Australian Labor Party received 46.3 per cent, yet each won 5 seats. But for losing by 1 1 votes in the electorate of Stirling, the Labor Party would have won 6 seats on that percentage. Is that fair and equitable? I have not heard any complaints from the Labor Party about that. 
I believe that it is worth while looking at international examples. The United Kingdom is held up as the greatest example of parliamentary democracy in the world. Constituencies in the United Kingdom vary in size from 40,000 to 80,000 electors. That discrepancy is not considered in the United Kingdom to be irregular. Constituencies in France range in size from 25,000 electors to 150,000 electors. There is a tolerence of only 5 per cent in New Zealand but that produces difficulties and redistributions are frequent.  Mr Daly  went to Canada recently to study the Canadian electoral system and he came back full of praise for many features of it, but he did not point out that the tolerance in Canada is 25 per cent. In many countries that are regarded as parliamentary democracies and that are held up as examples there is a far greater variation than there is in Australia. 
Let us have a look at the 1974 election results in the United Kingdom. I digress for a moment to say that the Prime Minister said at one stage of the game that he favoured the concept of one vote one value as being a true indication. In 1974 the Conservatives polled 38. 1 per cent of the vote and won 46.7 per cent of the seats and the Labour Party polled 37.2 per cent of the vote and won 47.5 per cent of the seats. Is that equitable? The Liberal Party polled 19.3 per cent of the vote and won 2.2 per cent of the seats. Other parties and individuals polled 5.4 per cent of the vote and won 3.6 per cent of the seats. Was an equitable result achieved under the system that the Prime Minister has been talking about of first past the post voting? Further examples could be cited, but I shall cite merely one. There has been argument-  Senator Steele  Hall referred to itabout the inequality of city and country electorates. In the past, the Distribution Commissioners have given careful consideration to the special problems of the remote regions of Australia. It is interesting to note that the electorates in the north-west and Kimberley areas of Western Australia are fixed by statute and no Western Australian government has chosen to amend that statute simply because all Western Australian governments have taken note of the special considerations of remote areas. 
Let us have a look at the concept of one vote one value. In New South Wales, for example, there are 17 extra-metropolitan divisions, including division of Darling, which encompasses a huge area and which, like the division of Kalgoorlie in Western Australia, is an exceptional area. Those 17 divisions cast 1,024,333 formal votes averaging 60,254 formal votes for each division. Excluding the division of Darling, the other 16 divisions cast 977,079 formal votes on an average of 61,067 for each division. The 28 metropolitan divisions in New South Wales cast 1,810,858 votes or 64,673 for each division. The value of the extra-metropolitan area votes is equal to that of 1.07 metropolitan voters or 1.05 metropolitan voters if the division of Darling is excluded. In that instance there is very close to the concept of one vote one value. As I said earlier, in 1968 the variation in 90 of the 123 divisions, excluding the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, was below 10 per cent, but the fact is that the Distribution Commissioners have not always found it possible to limit themselves to a 10 per cent tolerance because of the factors to which I have referred. No one is arguing that electoral divisions should not be substantially equal or as near to being substantially equal as is practicable in terms of their voting population. But it is clear from the figures I have quoted and it is clear from the Western Australian example that 10 per cent is not a sufficient margin to allow for population changes or for those regions with special problems that have in the past been recognised by all parties. No one can argue on those statistics that the present system is a distortion or a gerrymander. 
Such allegations are palpably untrue. One cannot escape from the conclusion that the Government 's motive for bringing in this legislation is other than fairness and equality.  Senator Withers  has suggested that the motive is a fiddle. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to serious allegations made by the senior quarantine officer in Western Australia that quarantine procedures in Western Australia were lax. Is it a fact that the allegations were investigated by a departmental committee? If so, who comprised the committee, from whom did it seek evidence, and what was the nature of the report? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Health will recall that yesterday I asked a question concerning allegations that quarantine procedures in Western Australia were lax. Will the Minister investigate complaints by  Mr Perry  and  Mr Burton  of Western Australia who arrived at Fremantle on the 'Khota Bali' from Bali on 23 February and 14 June respectively that they requested an inspection of footwear and this was refused,  Mr Perry  being told that it was a Saturday and that only a skeleton staff was available and  Mr Burton's  request for an inspection of footwear impregnated with mud being ignored? I further ask: From whom did the interdepartmental committee which investigated complaints seek evidence? 
I wish to speak to this motion briefly because it raises some very fundamental questions. The first question was dealt with by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, namely, that an honourable senator who has a notice of motion on the notice paper has the right- this has been a long accepted principleto retain control of his own business, except in the case of urgency. It is obviously the responsibility of the Government to prove urgency, and the Government has not done so. It has not even attempted to prove urgency. This matter does not have to be resolved until 1 August. Indeed, it does not matter if it is not resolved by 1 August. It will be resolved; it must be resolved; and if the debate is left until next week to be taken up it leaves plenty of time to resolve it. 
This report raises many fundamental issues. If the only consideration was that of parliamentary remuneration, it would not be so serious, but it raises - 
The honourable senator might cackle, but in my view it would not be of great seriousness. However, the report involves also the First Division of the Public Service, various statutory bodies and the judiciary. They are all separate matters to be considered and they are all covered by  Senator Wright's  notice of motion. 1 think we are entitled to give consideration to those 3 matters, if not necessarily to the matter of parliamentary salaries. But even leaving out the salary aspect, the report is concerned also with parliamentary committees, research assistance and many other matters in relation to which the report suggests or recommends changes in allowances. I think we are entitled to give some consideration to those matters and not be rushed into a debate merely, as  Senator Withers  pointed out, to get the Government off a hook of its own making. If the Press reports of the goings on in Caucus yesterday are correct, it sounds as though yesterday's Caucus meeting turned into a tomcat fight. I do not think this is a problem of great urgency. So I am open to be convinced by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  or honourable senators on the Government side that there is urgency. Until I am convinced otherwise, it is my intention to vote against the suspension of Standing Orders. 
I direct a question to the Minis  ter for Foreign Affairs. In view of the reiterated claims for innovation in the administration of the Department of Foreign Affairs I ask: Is the Minister contemplating dressing Foreign Affairs officers in a diplomatic uniform? Is the contemplated uniform based upon the Minister's claim that his policy is a policy of fraternalism? Does the fraternalism extend to copying the so-called liberation suit worn by West and East Africans, Maoist Chinese and Cubans? What uniform is to be considered appropriate by M/s Reid for female Foreign Affairs officers? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the report of a speech delivered by the Minister on 15 June to a seminar organised by the Institute of International Affairs in Adelaide in which the Minister indicated that Australia was again looking at aligning itself with the Third World. If this be correct, and if Australia is aligned with the United States through the ANZUS Treaty, have the rules for membership of the Third World been changed or is Australia's policy towards the ANZUS Treaty changing? 
I am absolutely amazed that  Senator Hall  should say that we should sacrifice the liberty and maybe the life of an individual to maintain good relations with the Soviet Union. If that is the depth of his view, then we should treat him with complete contempt.  Senator Durack  raised this matter in a very restrained manner. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  replied, I believe, in a restrained manner. We could have done without the flamboyant speech from my friend  Senator Wheeldon  who at least recognised, in reply to one of my interjections, that I was sincere in this matter. The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the fact that many genuine people are concerned for the fate of this young man. I believe that the Minister will recognise I am one of the genuine people who are concerned. I had discussions with  Senator Willesee  last night and I will acknowledge that he is one of the genuine people concerned. 
I accept that he is. I think we should start on this basis: It is a non-political issue. This is proved by the fact that  Mr Cowles  from the Australian Transport Workers Union is involved in this matter. No one would say that he is a Liberal supporter. The Rev. Dowding is involved- and he is not a Liberal supporter. 
Other unions are involved. Some university undergraduates are involved and I do not think their president is a Liberal. There are many people right across the political spectrum who are concerned about the rights of this young man, and this is the only matter in which we should be interested. Flamboyant speeches do not help this young man or his future. 
We have to be very careful that our emotions do not run away with us. This is a difficult problem and all such problems are difficult. I do not accept the view that the motion moved by  Senator Durack  is offensive or in any way sinister. It merely asks, I believe, for what the Minister wants and what we want- that this young man should not be subject to improper and undue pressures. We aU know the pressures that can be applied by communist countries. I myself have been involved in 2 cases involving people who tried to obtain political asylum. One person was successful and one was not. There is always a doubt as to the motive. One case involved a Polish seaman some time ago who was put into a psychiatric hospital because the captain of his ship declared him to be insane. Finally he was cleared by the efforts of some of us when it was shown that he was quite sane. 
I am just referring to the type of pressures that can be applied to these people. This raises aU the problems that we face in this particular case. I ignore the interjections from some honourable senators opposite and I talk to the Minister whom I believe is genuine in this matter. I do not talk to those people who want to protect the Russians. I talk to the Minister and only to the Minister or to those people, many of whom are on the Government side, who support him. I say that one of the great problems that we face is to know where the truth lies. Once this person comes into the hands of certain people, whether it be the Russian consul or other people who are involved, and he is isolated from those to whom he originally went and sought residence in Australia- he told them he wished to stay in Australia and he gave the reasons why he wished to stay in Australia and they were not political reasons- he will then come under the pressure of the consul and because his own family is in Russia he will be threatened. The family will be dealt with. We know the pressures he will come under. 
It is of no use  Senator Georges  yapping about civil liberties. We know all too well the threats that have been made against this young man. All we ask is a simple thing: That this young man be isolated at some stage from the pressures of the Russians, that he be allowed to talk to those to whom he originally went, the Rev.  Mr Johnson  and  Mr Badger,  and that he be able freely to make up his mind as to whether he wishes to return to the Soviet Union or remain in Australia. We ask that he be allowed to make up his mind free from intimidation and threats. That is all we ask. Surely those who profess to believe in civil liberties will not deny him that. 
Do not talk about civil liberties, my friend. All we ask is that this young man be given the opportunity, free from intimidation and threats, to talk to those whom he originally trusted in order to make up his mind as to whether he wishes to remain in Australia or return to the Soviet Union. If he declares that he wishes to return to the Soviet Union, there can be no argument- he has made a free decision. But if he returns to the Soviet Union, without this opportunity being given to him, in company with Professor Kabalevsky, this other character from the Russian Embassy and the others who go with him, no one will know whether he is going back to the Soviet Union of his own free will or whether he is going back under duress. 
You can talk as much as you like, my friend, but never talk about civil liberties again unless you are prepared to admit that this young man is entitled to make up his own mind free of duress. This is all that we ask. 
Sentor SIM-Who proposed it to him? 
-You just stop talking and tell me who proposed this to this 18-year-old. Who did it. Are you charging the Rev.  Mr Johnson  - 
If you will keep quiet for a minute I will ask you a simple question.  Mr President,  may I ask him a simple question? Is the honourable senator making the allegation against  Mr Badger  and the Reverend  Mr Johnson  that they tried to intimidate this young man? 
I am waiting for an answer. I have not heard it. Obviously  Senator Georges  is not making that allegation. So we can only suppose that this young man made the original decision of his own free will. If that is so, he should make his final decision after hearing the views of his compatriots; he should make his final decision of his own free will. That is all we ask; we ask for nothing else.  Senator Wheeldon  asked: 'Well, how do we do it? Do we charge into the suites which no doubt they are occupying in the Parmelia Hotel?' The simple answer is that before this young man leaves Australia- whether it is at the airport or when he leaves the hotel or wherever it issomebody, either from the Department of Foreign Affairs or from the Commonwealth Police, should take him aside and say: 'Do you wish to speak to these people whom you originally went to before you leave Australia to declare whether you wish to stay here or whether you do not?' He must be given that simple opportunity. I would be absolutely amazed if any Government senator denied him the right to express his opinion free from intimidation, coercion and duress. I see  Senator Georges  putting his hand across his brow in horror. I can only say that I am horrified that  Senator Georges,  who has risen in this place so often and made frantic appeals about civil liberties, is prepared to deny this young man the right to make a decision free from coercion. If I may appeal to the Minister - 
I have spoken all my life on civil liberties, if the honourable senator only knew it. I appeal to the Minister to provide thus opportunity. That is all the Opposition asks for. We ask for nothing else. There is nothing sinister or offensive in this appeal. It is an appeal that, before this young man leaves Australia, he be able to express his free choice, free from these people. There is no need to tell anybody what could happen with the KGB and all these people and the pressures they bring to bear. 

 - Senator Georges denies it. Of course he denies it. He talks about the Greek colonels. The Greek colonels have learnt all they know from the Russian KGB. That is where they learnt all their arts of torture and pressure. This is all the Opposition asks for. It is not an unreasonable request. This motion means what it says and nothing else. If this young man leaves this country with the suspicion that he is leaving under duress and that he has not had the opportunity to express his choice freely, it will be shame on this country and greater shame on the Government of this country. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of his attempt to equate the previous Government's decision in relation to Goa with the decision by the present Government to recognise the incorporation of the Baltic states into the Soviet Union, I ask him whether it is not a fact that Goa was a Portuguese colony populated by people largely of Indian ethnic origin whereas the Baltic states were formerly free and independent states possessing an ancient culture and traditions and whose people are witnessing the destruction of their culture and traditions and individually and collectively suffering from communist brutality and suppression? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refer to a reply which he gave yesterday to a question asked by  Senator Everett  concerning  Mr Ermolenko.  The Minister in the course of his reply said: 
It does seem interesting that the Liberal Party is so anxious to have  Senator Willesee  leave Canberra . . . 
As this proposal, according to Press reportsthey appeared on page 8 column 3 of the 'West 
Australian' newspaper of yesterday, if the Minister wishes to check- was made by  Mr Cowles,  the West Australian Secretary of the Transport Workers Union and not by the Liberal Party, will the Minister withdraw his offensive claim that this was 'consistent with the rest of the nonsense that we have seen in the course of this political stunt being operated by the Opposition'? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What were the names of the persons, other than aircrew, who accompanied the Prime Minister on his flight to the People's Republic of China during October-November 1973. 
2 ) For what purposes were those persons carried. 
Which passengers, if any, contributed towards the cost of the flight and what was the contribution in each case. 
What was the total cost of the flight. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Who were the Russians, apart from  Mr Ermolenko,  on board the Orion aircraft that smuggled  Mr Ermolenko  out of Australia? What precautions were taken to protect - 
I will repeat it if you like. 
I know where your sympathies lie. What precautions were taken to protect the highly secret equipment on board the aircraft? 
-Does that not matter? Is the Minister completely satisfied that no member of the sinister KGB was on board? What was the cost of the flight and who is to meet the cost? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it correct, as claimed by  Mr Tonkin  the Leader of the Opposition in Western Australia, that he suggested to the Minister that Ermolenko should go down and stay with  Dr Leigh  Cook and that the Minister replied: 'I am in no hurry to get him out of the country and there is no reason why he should not stay here for a week*? Is it also correct that the Minister told  Mr Tonkin-  these are  Mr Tonkin's  words- that he very definitely would not use Royal Australian Air Force aircraft and that Ermolenko would leave Australia on a commercial flight? Did  Mr Tonkin  tell the MinisterI quote from a transcript of a conversation between  Mr Tonkin  and an interviewer- 'Well now, I was not completely satisfied in my mind as to the reason why this young fellow changed his mind'? 
I am absolutely appalled by the proposals which have been put by the Government.  Senator Murphy  rightly has received credit in the past for his advocacy and support of the establishment of a Senate committee system.  Senator Murphy,  in opposition and in government in previous Parliaments, realised that the role of the Senate was entirely different from that of the House of Representatives and that the operation of a committee system was a proper role for the Senate to play. He has been credited with being the architect of the Senate committee system. Today his speech indicates that he is now the undertaker who is burying the Senate committee system.  His  proposal that the 5 committees- leave out the other 2 committees for the moment- should merely finish dealing with the references which they have before them is nothing more than a burial of the Senate committee system, a system which has won great credit for the Senate. I think  Senator Murphy  would acknowledge that. 
Many of the Senate committee reports have had great significance not only in Australia but also overseas. Let me say to  Senator Murphy  and to  Senator Hall,  who opposes the reestablishment of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the basis that we have a joint committee, that as one who served on both committees- indeed, I served for many years on the Joint Committee about whose ability even today to carry out proper investigations I will say a few words- the report on Japan was held to be of great significance overseas. In the United States it received great credit. In Japan it is being used as a textbook in Japanese universities. Japanese professors wrote seeking additional copies of the transcript of evidence to use as a textbook in their lectures in universities in Japan. 
I have been involved with sub-committees of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. In all the years I have been associated with them there have been only 2 reports which have received any prominence. One was on the Middle East. I think that was in the early 1960s. Another was on the Indian Ocean. By chance I happened to be the  Chairman  of that subcommittee, which issued that report within 12 months. There was a sub-committee on the South Pacific which sat for two or three years but the report has never been tabled. There was a sub-committee on Indonesia, which sat for some years but only an interim report was tabled. 
We found that with this type of committee there were great problems as a result of the difficulties in getting members of the House of Representatives to attend committee meetings because of their other responsibilities. I found, as did others, that it was an almost impossible task and that they did not treat the matter with the same seriousness and the same degree of responsibility because of the different role and responsibilities they had compared with members of the Senate. I say with great seriousness to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  that there is a place for a Senate committee system. If we are going to abolish a committee, let us abolish the Joint Committee. Let us follow the American system where there are Senate committees and House of Representatives committees. In fact, it is a system which I personally would favour. There is a role for a Senate committee system. 
I understand the problems facing the Leader of the Government in the Senate. He has got his marching orders from his peers. There is no question that there is within the Government a desire to destroy the Senate committee system.  Senator Withers  has said that we had difficulties and we did have difficulties. When I took over the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee we had difficulties with our own Government. Here we are moving into an area of sensitivity. Because of the strength and the support that I got from the  President  in those days and from  Senator Drury,  the  Deputy Chairman  of that Committee, these difficulties were overcome. I believe that they should be overcome. I agree that Senate committees are a nuisance to governments. But some governments regard the Parliament as a nuisance too. The function of committees is not only to better inform the Parliament so that it can compete more successfully with the expertise of the Executive but also to put a parliamentary view. A parliamentary view from both sides might well differ from an Executive view. 
I look with great foreboding upon this proposal to kill the Senate committee system. It is inevitable that the Government's proposal will kill the system. It will kill the expertise that has been developed within the Senate itself and the secretariat that is required to service the committees. It will kill the expertise we have been able to gather together from universities, from industry and from outside in order to assist committees. It will kill the relationship which has been growing between the Parliament, the universities and the public. There has been a growing awareness of the value of the committees to which people have been able to come and to talk to parliamentarians. The committee system has been of tremendous value, in a sense, in bringing Parliament to the people. I know that it is hopeless, but even at this stage I hope that in a very short time with a change of government in this country we will restore this system as it was and all committees as they were established.  Senator Georges  may grin. But there will be a change of government and the pathetic Budget which was produced tonight will only hasten it. We will restore this system because it is of great value to the Parliament and to the country. I am appalled that tonight  Senator Murphy  will become known as the undertaker who is burying the Senate committee system. 
I give you full credit for it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)  Order! The Minister may recall that he has already spoken on this amendment. If he wishes to address the Senate again he will have to seek leave. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- You have spoken on this amendment. I do not think you have the opportunity to close the debate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The Minister has sought leave to continue his remarks. Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I  present the following petition from 287 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As similar petitions have been presented I do not request that the petition  be  read. 
-All I say about the Ermolenko affair is that the socalled explanation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willessee)  has left as many questions unanswered as answered. I think it is very unfortunate that the Minister referred to the people at the Perth airport as a mob of louts because among that 'mob of louts' were many unionists- members of the Transport Workers Union- many university students whose allegiance, I understand, in some cases is to the Australian Labor Party, and many other people of goodwill. If they were upset then they had every reason to be upset at the events of that night and of subsequent nights and days. I make the comment that this whole matter was a shambles. It was a shambles from the very moment that this young man asked to remain in Australia and was allowed to be placed in the hands of the Russians. From that moment when the Russians sent across a sinister character, Alexandrov, whom one suspects is a KGB man, we could never learn the truth. We can never be sure that from that time this man was not under continuous duress. There is a lesson to be learnt from this as we can learn lessons from other countries. As people seek to remain in Australia they should be immediately isolated and given time to make up their minds. We should work out some rules for the future. The lesson might be well learnt. 
The week in which Ermolenko was spirited out of Australia and the week in which there was de jure recognition by Australia of the incorporation of the Baltic states into the Soviet Union was indeed a shameful week. The Minister said that our attitude was reminiscent of the cold war era. I must say that I see no relevance between the Baltic states and the cold war era. Indeed, if our attitude is reminiscent of the cold war era the attitude of his Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  just a few months ago, as I shall indicate in a few moments, was also reminiscent of the cold war era. 
A few years ago the attitude of his former leader,  Mr Calwell,  was reminiscent of the cold war era. The attitude of  Dr Klugman,  a respected member of the Australian Labor Party, who sent a telegram of protest and who gave it to the Press is also reminiscent of the cold war era. This extraordinary decision was made by the Prime Minister in the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Prime Minister seems to have a habit of making decisions in the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I instance the case of former  Senator Gair.  But in this case- not in the case of  Senator Gair-  the Minister has supported the decision of the Prime Minister. We might also ask why the announcement was made in Moscow and not in Australia. Immediately the decision was made why did not the Government make the announcement? I think we are also entitled to ask: If the announcement had not been made in Moscow would it have been made in Australia? Would the Australian Parliament and the Australian people have known of this decision? 
The Minister continually likes to equate the situation in the Baltic states with that of Goa. That is just nonsense. Goa was a small Portuguese enclave in India. Admittedly it was taken by force by India but the people of Goa are ethnically largely of Indian origin. In fact, they are Indian. The people of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia are not Russian. There is no proper comparison whatever between them. This is an excuse which the Minister likes to bring out every now and again. It is a pretty weak excuse. The Minister accused  Senator Greenwood  of untruths. I do not wish to accuse the Minister of untruths but at one stage he did say that in the past Australia took no action unless the United States of America or the United Kingdom moved first. This is just not true. The instance which immediately cames to mind is Bangladesh. Australia, long before the United States and the United Kingdom, was one of the first countries to recognise the independence of Bangladesh. To try to convince the Parliament that until this Government was involved in these events Australian foreign policy was discredited throughout the world and that Australians could not hold their heads high is just sheer rhetoric and nothing more. The Minister knows that that is not true. If he wants to tell the truth let him tell us among what nations we could not hold our heads high. 
The Minister has been excusing the Government's decision in the name of reality because Russia has effective control of the Baltic states. Unquestionably that is true. But I come to the matter of Taiwan which this Government recognises as a province of China. What government has effective control of the island of Taiwan? It is not Mao's Government. It is the Government of Taiwan. That is the reality of the matter. So if we recognise realities let us be consistent and recognise the reality of Taiwan. Let us come to the decision made by the Prime Minister which I have before me and which the Minister defends as facing up to reality. Some little while ago a very respected leader of the Australian Labor Party, the Honourable Arthur Calwell, on 2 May 1 960 wrote to a  Mr Delins  and in part he stated: 
The Australian Labor Party has not recognised and does not intend to recognise the incorporation of the Baltic states into the Soviet Union. The peoples of these lands have as much right to determine their own destiny as any other people living anywhere else in the world. The Labor Party has always believed in the principle of self determination and the next Labor Government will be as true to that principle as all Labor governments in the past have been. 
I am afraid that if  Mr Calwell  were alive today he would be hanging his head in shame. He would see a principle which he said the Labor Party always stood for no longer having any relevance. The Minister likes to use the word relevance'. Let us come to a later period. I come to a letter written by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  on 18 March 1968 to the  Chairman  of the Council of Estonian Societies in Australia. He stated: 
Nearly all members of the Estonian community came to Australia during the period of the Chifley Labor Government or in the following year under arrangements made by it. That Government never recognised the incorporation of Estonia into the U.S.S.R. My Party still maintains the same attitude. So too do the fraternal parties which are in government such as the British Labour Party - 
It still upholds the principle  Mr Calwell  spoke about-  the German Social Democrats - 
They uphold the same principles-  the United Socialist Party of Italy-- 
It upholds the same principles. 
Those parties, like the Australian Labor Party, are fellow members of the socialist internationale with the Estonian Social Democratic Party in exile. 
Those are the words of the present Prime Minister. I come to a letter dated 17 May 1974 to the  President  of the Council of the Latvian Community. The letter was signed by  Mr Kep  Enderby on behalf of E. G. Whitlam. It states: 
The policy of the present Australian Government is that, while not formally recognising the incorporation of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia into the Soviet Union, it must be cognisant of the de facto situation and deal with the Government which has effective control of the territory in question. This was also the attitude taken by all our predecessors on this matter. On a number of occasions - 
I ask honourable senators to note this -  the Government has made its views known on the question of civil liberties - 
I emphasise the words 'civil liberties -  and on fundamental human rights - 
He is referring to the Baltic countries-  its own adherence to them and its wish that those rights embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights be extended everywhere. 
They are the words of your Prime Minister just a few short months ago, on 17 May 1974. Are we now to accept the truth that Government members no longer believe in the question of civil liberties and of fundamental human rights?  Mr Whitlam  stated, inter alia, in an address to the United Nations Association on the occasion of Australia's celebration of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: 
The Declaration has come to be recognised as one of the enlightened events in modern history and it is a fundamental objective of the Labor Party to ensure that Australia's policies are soundly based on respect for and on the protection and enhancement of civil liberties and on basic human rights. 
Do Government members no longer believe in that? The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  told us today that you do not. He told us that you believe in realities; never mind about civil liberties and human rights.  Mr Whitlam  went on to say: 
The Soviet Government is aware of the Australian Government's position in this matter and we will continue to seek opportunities in the United Nations to promote respect for and observance of basic human rights by all members. 
It will be interesting to see when the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister go to the meeting of the United Nations whether they will seek to protect the human rights and civil liberties of the peoples of the Baltic states. We have heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs state that our attitude is reminiscent of that adopted in the cold war era. But it is only a few short months ago that the Prime Minister, the man who made this shameful decision, was speaking in these high moral tones. Why did he change his mind? We have not been told, except for what has been said by the Minister today. This is the first time that we have heard any sort of explanation. We have been told that this has been done to recognise the realities of the situation. That is the only reason that we have been given for it. 
I think that we must have rather nasty suspicions in the light of our inability to get any logical explanation. This decision of the Government has been universally condemned by pretty well every section of the Press in Australia. It is opposed, as the Prime Minister himself has admitted, to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which gives no support to the brutal annexation of the Baltic countries by the military forces of the Soviet Union. The Government has always claimed that it supports decolonialisation. This decision represents a policy of re-colonialisation. Apparently, again, the Government has changed its policies. The decision becomes more extraordinary when we are told and led to believe that there was no pressure from the Soviet Union. In fact, the Soviet Union was just as surprised as we were. It remains, despite what the Minister has said and despite the fact that we are one of the few governments in the world, to use the Minister's terms, 'to face up to realities'- highsounding stuff this- a decision which is contrary to the policies of most other countries. From time to time, the Australian Government has professed great admiration for the policy of Canada. But the Canadian Government has refused to recognise the incorporation of the Baltic states into the Soviet Union. The United Kingdom, the United States of America and all European countries with the exception of Sweden, Finland and Switzerland have also refused to recognise the incorporation. 
Yes, I think that Switzerland has but no major European power has. The European powers make it clear that they have no intention of doing this. There has been no acceptable explanation from the Minister in the past and there was none today. If the Prime Minister hopes that this move is likely to win Russian respect, I inform him that people with a knowledge of Russia tell me that it is not likely to win Russian respect. Probably, the Russians privately will have a good deal of contempt for the Australian decision. We have a nasty thought in our minds that the Government and the Prime Minister made this whole decision to pave the way for an easy visit by the Prime Minister to Russia and to show how sympathetic we are to the Russians. If we are correct in that thought, then I am afraid that he might find another reaction. In the absence of any other explanation, we are left with this nasty thought in our minds. 
The story of the Baltic states is a horrible one. It is one of Russian persecution, repression and of a policy of genocide and mass deportations carried out by the Russian secret police. We are witnessing the destruction of the traditions, culture and the language of an ancient people. The Government itself, by its shameful act of recognising the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Soviet Union, puts its seal of approval, whether it likes it or not, in the eyes of the world, on this shameful, brutal Russian policy. It also exposes once again the double standards of Government policy. We had some furtive report that the Government- I think that the Minister had to acknowledge this- is providing aid to the liberation movements in Africa to overthrow their colonial yoke and injustices. Apart from anything else, this action represents a blatant interference in the affairs of other countries. But if this Government were consistent, if it believed in the right of self-determination, if it really believed in the role of self-determination, then it would be giving aid to the liberation movements in the Baltic States so that they could overthrow the savage yoke of the Soviet Union. Apparently, the Government has one standard for the countries that have liberation movements that have Communist Chinese support and another standard for those countries that wish to overthrow the brutal yoke of the Communist countries. 
All this leads us to ask the question: 'Where is the Government 's foreign policy going? ' Despite the sort of explanations we have had from the Minister today, if there are doubts in the community as to where the Government is leading us, then it is the responsibility of the Government to answer those doubts. The Government has never attempted to explain in clear terms where its foreign policy is leading us. Certainly, there is a doubt in the Parliament. There are doubts outside the Parliament and doubts are expressed in the Press. There are doubts amongst many of the keenest observers and doubts are being expressed overseas. In particular, doubts are being expressed in the Australian Labor Party. We have  Dr Cairns  who has a different policy altogether from the so-called official policy of the Australian Labor Party. Doubts are being expressed by some of our former friends as to whether Australia is any longer a reliable partner. 
The Government claims that the justification for its policy is that we are now following an independent line. Quite apart from the fact that no country can follow a purely independent foreign policy, the Government must take account of the feelings and reactions of other countries. There is no virtue in an independent foreign policy for independence sake. It must serve the national interest of the country. There is strong evidence that the policy of Australia, despite what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, is moving towards non-alignment. Certainly, that is the policy of  Dr Cairns.  He has made that pretty clear. If it is not the policy of the Government, then it should clearly state that it is not the policy of the Government. There can be no doubt that the Australian policy is becoming more and more orientated towards gaining access, whether in observer status or in some other status, to the Third World. It is worth noting in this respect that the latest reports from the People's Republic of China indicate that that country's foreign policy is again being dictated by its desire to lead the Third World. We are witnessing a procession of Third World leaders going to Peking to pay obeisance at the feet of  Chairman  Mao. It is also worth noting, and the Government cannot ignore it, that the Chinese Press has headlines these days such as: 'The world in chaos', 'The situation has never been better'. So when we move towards this Third World we want to be very careful as to where we are going. 
It has been cynically suggested that the recent actions of the Australian Government, which raised doubts in our minds as to where the Government is going, could mean that we are required by countries of the Third World who probably have some suspicions in view of our past to serve an apprenticship before we will be accepted on an observer status or on some other status. This may well explain many of the recent rather odd policy decisions of the Government, such as the recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic states, the recognition of North Vietnam and the assumption of diplomatic relations with that country as well as with Algeria which is the headquarters of the Third World, the attacks on the United States in relation to Diego Garcia which were made with complete disregard of the fact that the actions of the United States are in response to increased Russian naval presence. 
I refer also to the Prime Minister's speech earlier when he made representations to both the Soviet Union and the United States and said that the situation is hopeful. We would like to know a bit more about how hopeful it is. No doubt we won applause from countries of the Third World, some of whom are providing bases and other facilities for the Russian naval vessels in the Indian Ocean. But we must nevertheless question these policies and the motives behind them. I am not questioning for one moment the desirability of Australia establishing good relations with countries of the Third World or with countries in any other part of the world, but we have to ask the $64 question: Are Australian interests and security being safeguarded by these policies? This is the question that the Government must answer because there is not one Third World country which has the power or the will to be interested in the future security of this country. 
Finally, the Government seems to have accepted the dangerous assumption that detente is a permanent feature of the world scene. I have said before that this is indeed a dangerous assumption because the chances of permanent detente are no greater than the chances of instability. It is also accepted that South East Asia is becoming more stable. That too is a dangerous assumption and is not supported by at least the Foreign Minister of Singapore nor, I believe from my own knowledge, by the countries in South East Asia. Indeed many of them see the danger of increasing instability in the region. The thinking which is illustrated by the Government's policies, that is, that we suffer no danger of a threat for the next 10 or 15 years, is dangerously naive. I noticed the other day that the Minister for Defence, who has been promoting this thinking, claimed at a meeting at Duntroon that the official view now did not preclude the development of threats to Australia within a 10 to 15 year period. This is the man who a short while ago rejected the possibility of a threat to Australia within 10 to 15 years. Perhaps  Mr Barnard  is becoming aware of the realities of the situation and will do something about our defence forces. There is formidable evidence today that detente is crumbling. When we look at the world we find Europe in disarray, China in internal disarray, instability - 
And your friend Tricky Mao. There is instability in other countries, including the United States of America. Many observers believe that we are facing a situation similar to that the 1930s and that there is a dangerous world situation developing. 
Are you saying that it is nonsense? You might think it is nonsense but you live in a world of your own. This is a situation which is possible and many observers with a greater knowledge - 
But people were saying in the 1930s that it would not happen. They were still saying in in 1939. If the honourable senator wants to go into history, it was Pitt who said that 
England faced 15 years of peace. Instead it had 15 years of war. Now the Government's policy, I think it is fair to say, is a more independent policy but it is also a more defenceless one. We are looking to new friends to replace old friends and these new friends have neither the interests, the will nor the power to assist us and protect our interests. At the same time, whether willingly or unwillingly, the Government is undermining our relations with the major powers and above all their confidence in us. Our foreign policy is becoming more and more one of doubtful quality. If we do not understand what the Government is trying to achieve, that is the fault of the Government which makes no attempt to explain in clear terms to this Parliament or the people what its objective are. One cannot escape the feeling that the policies are based more on ideological grounds than on the real interests of Australia. Because of this the Minister and the Government deserve the censure of this House. 
I present the following petition from 62 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia- by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to self-determination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Australian Economy: Proposals by the Premier of Queensland 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who, I understand, is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government aware of the existence of an organisation called Terrorist International, which is the fraternity of national liberation movements around the world? Is the Government also aware that organisations such as the Black September Movement, the Japanese Red Army, the Irish Republican Army and liberation movements which have been granted financial assistance by the Commonwealth Government are members of Terrorist International? Is the Government concerned that its policy of granting financial aid to African liberation movements raises the possibility that Australia will become tainted by association with this terrorist group? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's address to the United Nations in which he is reported to have described the international situation in such pessimistic terms as 'a drift away from international order', 'a sense of events out of control' and 'a nightmare world'. As the Government's previous assessment was of growing stability in the world and a no-threat situation for ten or fifteen years, will the Government now revise Australia's defence policy in line with the Prime Minister's new assessment of the world situation? 
It has been an interesting interlude. We have been discussing the Budget and now we have had 2 long discourses on turtles. Let us get back to affairs of State.  Senator Cavanagh,  in his only reference to the Budget, said that it speaks for itself. We certainly agree with that. Not only does it speak for itself but also it has been spoken about by every section of the community. It has achieved a number of firsts. No Budget has been more soundly condemned by every section of the community. I admit that no Budget is popular and that no Budget receives universal applause, but this Budget has been universally condemned. 
Even  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, in his dual capacity, had some very serious reservations about it. The economists in this imprecise field were once pretty well unanimous in condemning the Budget on a number of grounds. 
No Budget has been subject to so many leaks. We had the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is now the acting Prime Minister, on television night after night and at Press conferences day after day telling us what he thought should be in the Budget. And most of it was. Others wanted to get into the act too. So we were bombarded day after day by Ministers, members, senators and others with all the things which they thought should be in the Budget. 
So the Budget was no surprise. Indeed it was remarkably accurate and one wonders why anybody bothered to present it. They could have put all the suggestions together and we could have had the lot. No Budget has so recklessly ignored the twin evils of inflation and unemployment. 
They hardly received a mention in the Budget Speech. No Treasurer was so ignored.  Mr Crean,  I think, is an efficient and sincere man but no one would have believed that he was the Treasurer responsible for the financial and economic policies of the Government. He was referred to as the puppet Treasurer and the de facto Treasurer but he certainly at no stage was the Treasurer except for the brief moment of glory or otherwise when he was allowed to read the Budget Speech in accordance, I suppose, with tradition and precedent. I remember seeing a cartoon in one of the newspapers which showed  Mr Crean  going up to  Dr J.  F. Cairns saying: 'Jim, I can't read that. What does it mean?' That is indicative of the sort of reaction outside to the part played by the Treasurer in the preparation of the Budget Speech. 
Of all the firsts, no Budget has been so subject to change forced on a government by a Caucus immediately after presentation. We know that Caucus obviously regarded at least some measures as being, to put it mildly, ill conceived. One of those, of course, was the tax on unearned income. That battle, so we read in the Press today, is still continuing and I will say something about that in a moment. But there is no question about one thing: This Budget was designed unashamedly to bribe the unions into exercising restraint. 
Is bribing part of a government's activities? 

 - Senator Wheeldon has a great sense of humour and I take the interjection as being another indication of that sense of humour. But the Government sought by bribery the cooperation of the unions. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 - Mr Deputy President, prior to the suspension of the sitting I was saying that the Budget was unashamedly an attempt to bribe the unions to co-operate with the Government. It is interesting that the Government seeks the cooperation of the unions whereas it confronts every other section of the community. But it does not appear that the co-operation is forthcoming because we understand that the unions have provided the Government with a list of demands which must be met before they are willing to cooperate in the area of wage restraint. So even in this area the Budget has failed. The worst feature is that it is a savage attack on the thrifty and those least able to bear the burden, and it destroys initiative and enterprise. It is really an ideological document with the sole objective of furthering the socialist policies of the Government, without any regard for the economic and social consequences. 
One of the most frightening aspects of the Budget is the complete failure even to attempt to deal with inflation. This issue was largely ignored and was hardly mentioned in the Budget except for the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or whoever was responsible for the Budget throwing up his or their hands in horror and saying that there will be an inflation rate of 22.5 per cent in the coming year. By any standard this rate is an extremely high one. No one that I know believes that the rate of inflation will not greatly exceed 22.5 per cent. The figure of 30 per cent is often spoken of. This makes nonsense of the so-called tax concessions that the Government is providing for those on lower incomes. The tables which have been produced show that by the end of this year and early next year they will be paying a far greater percentage of their incomes in tax than they are paying at the moment because of the rise in wages to meet inflation. While the Government has been urging on other sections of the community the need for restraint, it is not prepared to show any restraint itself. The continued growth in Government expenditure is worrying. It is 35 per cent. It is interesting that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  met the State Premiers in June, he said: 
There is however a need for all of us not to try to push ahead so fast that the economy is unable to meet our demands. As part of the battle to contain inflation we will be following a policy of restraint in our own spending. 
Some dramatic changes took place in the thinking of the Prime Minister between June and September because if one regards an increase of 35 per cent in Government expenditure as exercising restraint, one must wonder at the type of thinking that goes on in the minds of the Prime Minister and members of his Government. 
The Treasurer delivered his so-called miniBudget in July. Honourable senators will remember what a flop that was because right up to the last second we did not know whether he would be allowed by Caucus to deliver it. How emasculated it was. But he did say this:   . . the Government acknowledges that public expenditure must also be restrained ... the Government accepts that its plans must be realised with a timing consistent with the needs of sound economic management. 
They are very brave words, and we would agree with them. The Treasurer continued: 
Those matters will be examined more fully in the context of the 1974-75 Budget . . . The expenditure restraints we have required of the States will be fully matched by our own. 
What hollow words. I wonder which State Premier or Treasurer, whether in a Labor or a LiberalCountry Party Government, would agree that the Commonwealth is exercising any restraint. But the Commonwealth is demanding restraint from the States. This is part of the complete irresponsibility of this Government. 
One of the most notable phrases used by the Treasurer was that the Government expenditure would take up the slack in the private sector. I do not know what is meant by that, but he said words to that effect. This Government has allowed the private sector to languish. The private sector is the productive sector of the community and provides our wealth. I am at a complete loss to understand where the resources to fuel Government expenditure will come from if the Government is to take up the slack in the private sector. One would have thought that the only correct policy would have been to allow the private sector to expand by, if necessary, a restriction in the growth of the public sector. It is becoming a sick joke but both  Dr Cairns,  as Acting Prime Minister, and  Mr Crean,  as Treasurer, are appealing for confidence in the private sector when every decision and act of this Government, if not deliberately aimed at destroying confidence in the private sector, has certainly had that effect. The private sector is witnessing the collapse of organisations and cannot help but feel fearful for the future. This is a symptom which should be worrying to the Government. How can there be confidence when the Government seems to be deliberately trying to increase Government expenditure at the expense of increasing the opportunities for the private sector to expand? 
There are the extraordinary antics of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  which, if they were not so serious, would read more like a comedy than anything else. He has deliberately or incompetently- I do not know whether he is deliberate or incompetent- destroyed confidence and the growth of our great mineral industries. No one knows what his policy is, and the Prime Minister in his address to the United Nations made a mockery of  Mr Connor's  policies. It is time that the Prime Minister, as I think  Mr Peacock  said earlier, put up or shut up. When he returns to Australia he ought to do something about it to ensure that  Mr Connor  at last produces a minerals policy that will allow for the development and sale of the great mineral resources of Australia. There is no confidence today in our mining industries. Even the Labor Government of Western Australia, when it was in office, was highly critical of the Federal Government's policies in relation to the development of our mineral resources. 
We have heard  Dr Cairns,  followed by  Mr Hawke,  saying: 'Look, you know, really there is nothing wrong with what we are doing. It is the system that is to blame'. They are trying to excuse their own folly, irresponsibility and incompetence by blaming something called 'the system'. I think that one must be excused if one has a suspicion that the policies of the Government are deliberately devised to destroy the system. It is interesting that more and more people in the community are beginning to suspect that. I suggest it is an act of cowardice for the Government to blame something abstract called the system ' for the economic and financial mess that we are in today. 
As the Prime Minister callously and cynically betrayed the Baltic people in repudiation of an undertaking that he gave on the eve of the general election on 17 May, so he has equally callously and cynically betrayed the Australian people by his repudiation of promises and undertakings that he gave during the election campaign. We recall that it took us some time to get the Prime Minister to admit that there was an inflationary problem in Australia. At last he admitted it. During the election campaign in May he told the Australian people that inflation had been reduced and was no longer a problem. 
The cry was: 'Only Whitlam has reduced inflation by one-third '. Inflation was running at a rate of about 13 per cent during the May election campaign. Today it is running at about 20 to 22 per cent. That is a betrayal of the Australian people. The Prime Minister promised full employment. The Prime Minister said that in Australia alone unemployment and inflation did not march side by side. We know the history of ever-growing unemployment. I believe new unemployment figures will be released very shortly. If the reports are correct those figures will show a dramatic and frightening increase in unemployment in Australia. 
I turn now to some of the measures in the Budget. The first one to which I wish to refer and to which the Opposition takes exception- indeed the Labor Caucus also took exception to it- is the proposed tax on unearned income. We believe that this proposal came from one of the bright young boys who surround the Prime Minister. He suddenly had this great idea that we could placate the unions by soaking the rich. The Government, in this Budget, imposed a 10 per cent tax on unearned income. It has had a pretty stormy passage because there was immediately a revolt in the Caucus. I think it was the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who I understand is the secretary of the economic and finance committee of Caucus who announced in the other place that this proposal was to be amended. It was not announced by the Treasurer. The poor old Treasurer has been ignored all the time. The Treasurer could not make the announcement. It was made by a back bencher who said that Caucus had decided that this - 
Oh, he is the under-Treasurer. I thought he was a puppet but still, a nicer word is under-Treasurer'. We understand that Caucus- if today's Press reports are correct- discussed the matter again yesterday when some members showed great wisdom in wanting the tax on unearned incomes abolished altogether. That proposal did not receive enough support. We now have a proposal that tax on unearned income should be abolished on incomes up to $5,000 a year. I presume that the Labor Party Caucus believes that anybody earning more than $4,000 is rich and that we should soak them. It is an objectionable and unjust tax - 
Which report is it, senator? Is it your report or someone 's leak? 
Which one was that, senator? What is the income level? I will take the Press report as being correct and somebody can correct me if necessary. The Press report indicated that the tax would be abolished for people earning up to $5,000 and there were some concessions up to $5,600. 
Well, if it is wrong, I ask the honourable senator to tell me where. It would be very interesting because I do not think it matters whether the amount is $5,000 or $6,000. The new proposal does not remove anomalies, in fact, it increases them. Is the Government arguing that a man on a taxable income of $6,000 is a wealthy man? Is he in any better position than a man with a taxable income of $5,000 or $5,600? In other words, the Government is still going to penalise the smaller man. Honourable senators opposite can frown if they wish. The Government is still penalising the thrifty people who have saved, the widows-- 
I am glad the honourable senator can listen. But it is not sufficient for him only to listen. It also takes a little intelligence to let what I am saying go into his head. I am afraid that is where  Senator Poyser  often fails. The tax on unearned income is penalising the thrifty. It is still penalising the small man for the sole purpose of placating the unions. It is an objectionable tax and it is an unjust tax. Even  Dr Cairns  is reported to have allegedly said that it was a mistake. I go no further than that. The leaks from Caucus are monumental.  Dr Cairns  has said that the tax may have been a mistake and could be rescinded in the next Budget. That is interesting. If it was a mistake why is the tax not being rescinded now before it affects many people? 1 am glad to say that the Liberal and Country Party Opposition has announced that when it assumes office very shortly the tax - 
It will not be long the way you are going my friend. But until the tax is abolished a lot of small people will suffer from this Government's action. The whole way in which this matter has been handled by the Government and by the Caucus is typical of the way in which this Government handles nearly every measure. The 
Government has created uncertainty in the community. We can only think that the processes of this Government are not only muddled but are rather queer. 
The capital gains tax- we do not know how it will be applied- is a tax which, unless it is applied very carefully, could be vicious and could have disastrous financial consequences. It will place a burden on many well meaning people the value of whose assets will suffer because of the high rate of inflation. The Government has shown itself interested only in the urban areas. It is doing this at the expense of rural areas. The Government believes that it can bribe the people in the urban areas to vote for it. The Government does not care a tuppenny damn for the primary producers. I exempt from that statement the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who I think is putting up a brave fight in the interests of the rural community. But  Senator Wriedt  is fighting a losing battle. 
Nothing illustrates this more than 2 things: Last year the Prime Minister went out and told the primary producers that they had never had it so good. He received a rather savage response to that comment. Today many of our leading primary industries are in serious economic difficulties. In the middle of these difficulties the Government abolished the superphosphate subsidy. The Government has defended that action as being just and sensible.  Dr Cairns  who does not believe in Cabinet solidarity- that is the last thing in which he would believe- has now said that abolishing the superphosphate subsidy could have been a mistake, too, and perhaps the Government should examine the matter again. 
Yes. But the Government believes in creating incentives only for those who are involved in government. The Government is not interested in providing incentives for those engaged in primary industry or in private enterprise. The position now is that the Government has abolished the superphosphate subsidy. The Acting Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  has said: Well, we could have made a mistake. We could have handled it better and we could have done something else about it. Perhaps we should look at it again '. This again is typical of the muddle of this Government which is creating such uncertainty throughout the community. 
In 1 972 the Prime Minister said that the Labor Party was the only government that could unite 
Australia. What is the truth? The truth is the contrary because Australia has never been so divided as it is today. It has never been so uncertain as to its future. This uncertainty is felt by all sections of the community. There is today a feeling of despair and a loss of confidence because of the failure of the policies followed by this Government and because of the Government's failure to give leadership. There is in truth a crisis in leadership in Australia. What do we find at this time of economic and financial difficulty? I do not want to use the word 'crisis' in that context. We have a Prime Minister who once again has gone overseas to address the United Nations and to talk to  President  Ford, desirable though that may be, and then to go up to talk to  Mr Trudeau,  the Prime Minister of Canada. Canada also has problems and  Mr Trudeau  decided not to go to the United Nations although it is only a few hundred miles away. He decided to stay at home and provide leadership at this time of financial and economic-- 
Do not let us get into this other sector.  Mr Trudeau  said he would not go away because he wanted to be on hand at this time of economic and financial crisis. But it is no problem to our Prime Minister to scoot off and leave us in the hands of somebody else. Even that is not the end of the matter because tomorrow the  Deputy  Prime Minister is scooting off too. He is scooting off to Peking. I know that  Chairman  Jim and  Chairman  Mao are great friends but why is the  Deputy  Prime Minister going there? He is going to open the Australian exhibition or something or other at the Peking fair, a matter of great national importance. So at one and the same time the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister are to be absent, at great expense. I do not deny the Australian Prime Minister the right to travel overseas but he has left the country at this time and we are to be left to the tender mercies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Well, well, well, the tender mercies of  Mr Connor!  So the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Treasurer are to be absent. I quickly acknowledge the right of the Treasurer to be overseas because he is attending a very important conference. Of those 3 people, only the Treasurer has the right to be leaving this country at this time. This is an extraordinary situation. They are being recreant to the trust and responsibility placed on them in going overseas on matters which, however important they may seem, are not as important as being here to provide the leadership and confidence this country requires at the present time. 
Before I finish my remarks,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I want to refer to one other matter. The Budget again showed how little regard this Government has for the defence forces. It talks about having a mandate. It had a mandate to continue defence expenditure at between 3.2 per cent and 3.5 per cent of the gross national product. That figure was soon down to 2.9 per cent and now it is down to about 2.5 per cent. 
What are the figures? 
I have not heard them. Give me the figure. 
-Nearly 3 per cent of the GNP. The GNP has risen tremendously so the figure is well below - 
I tell the honourable senator that we would not have allowed our defence forces to run down to the state they are in today. The Army hardly exists. It has only about 30,000 personnel. There has been the greatest number of officer resignations ever. 

 - Senator Bishop can give all the excuses for this. The officers are getting out. One only has to get out and talk to them. They are getting out because they do not believe in their future. 
The figures for what- the officers? According to the latest figures the Army increased by 63, or something like that, in the last month or so. Australia has no tanks and has ordered 53 for delivery sometime in the distant future. We have no orders for artillery. We have nothing. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has been going overseas and looking around, shopping for something for 1980 or some such date. Where is the Navy today? It cannot even patrol the coastline of Western Australia. Our defence research establishments are being deliberately allowed to run down at this time when the Prime Minister has admitted the dangers confronting the world. A little while ago we had the most optimistic forecast of growing world stability, detente and goodness knows what. Honourable senators on this side challenged the Government and said that the forecasts were unreal. Now the Prime Minister has been forced to admit they are unreal. He has been forced to admit that a serious international situation is developing. Never have our defence forces been in such a parlous state as they are today and with no prospect for any improvement. 
I conclude by saying that the Government has failed to provide leadership. It has made no effort to appeal to the community for community help in solving this tremendous problem of inflation. There are no easy solutions; no one suggests that there are. Inflation will not be solved by waving a magic wand. The solution will require hard work. I am glad that at last some Ministers are now placing some stress on increasing productivity because that, of course, is one of the solutions. This will require hard work and far greater co-operation between the Australian Government, the State governments, local authorities and all sections of the Australian community, yet there has been no sign that this Government wants to seek that co-operation. It wishes to seek confrontation with State governments. My colleague  Senator Baume  says that it is destructive. While this Government is engaging in unrestrained expenditure it is forcing the States to impose savage taxes which are themselves highly inflationary and only adding to the inflationary problems. 
The honourable senator wanted to give himself a rise. He should not blame the Queensland Parliament. He would have had a rise. 
I shall wait until the honourable senator finishes. If it had not been for honourable senators on this side of the House there would have been a rise for Commonwealth parliamentarians because Government supporters wanted it.  Senator Mulvihill  should not point the finger at anybody else. I said that there is no easy solution to inflation. This Government unfortunately has abdicated its responsibilities in this respect. It should tell the Australian people in plain terms that it seeks their co-operation, that it will work towards obtaining their cooperation, and that there will be unpalatable policies required. If this Government provides the leadership the people of Australia will respond as they always have responded. This is the challenge this Government faces. It also faces a crisis in leadership and it is about time the Prime Minister started to provide that leadership and stopped waffling at the United Nations. It is time the Australian people were given clear policies for the future and an assurance from the Government that it will exercise the self-restraint required. The sections of the community which provide the wealth should again be given confidence for the future. It is time the Government sought their co-operation. We all require and wish to have a stable Australia. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to a reported speech by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, in China in which he is reported to have said: 'While Australia can claim to be no more than an honorary member of the Third World, the independent foreign policy we look for is really a Third World policy'? As the Prime Minister is reported to have told the United Nations that Australia did not aspire to Third World status, I ask the Minister which policy represents Australia's official foreign policy. If the Prime Minister's statement represented Australia's official policy, will this be conveyed to the Government of the People 's Republic of China so as to prevent any misunderstanding as to our official policy? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration: What restrictions have been placed on the political activities of a  Mr Curtis,  who entered Australia illegally from South Africa, while his application for political asylum is being considered? Does the Government permit persons awaiting a decision on an application for political asylum to engage in controversial political activities, particularly of a domestic nature? If not, has  Mr Curtis  been warned to refrain from further political activities? What is the present position regarding  Mr Curtis  's application? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy and I refer to a report from Japan that Australia and Brazil have entered into an agreement for joint action in relation to the export of iron ore. Is the report correct? If so, will the Minister provide full details of the agreement? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Is the Government aware of the hardships caused to families living in remote areas of Australia by the Government's action in reducing the education deduction for taxation purposes from $400 to $ 1 50? Is the Government concerned that the families affected do not belong to the wealthy class or send their children to so-called wealthy schools? What action does the Government propose to take to protect these parents and their children from the folly of the Government's action? 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate refers to the acquisition of the Waterloo, Sydney, plant of the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia. Will the Leader of the Government inform the Senate when the Government will announce whether it has adopted  Mr Hawke  's policy to operate the plant itself,  Dr Cairns  's policy to sell or give the plant to the Chinese or  Mr Enderby  's policy to close the plant? 
I present the following petition from 200 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of The Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We the undersigned citizens of Australia do humbly petition the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia that it might take such steps as may be necessary either to direct the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to preserve and restore The Palace Hotel or itself acquire the said Palace Hotel St George's Terrace, Perth on its present site so as to preserve and restore it in perpetuity. 
Further we do humbly petition this honourable Parliament to make such funds as may be necessary available to purchase the entire contents of the said Hotel from the owners thereof. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I do not intend to speak at any length on this Bill. The views that I express are also the views of my colleagues in the Australian Country Party. Whilst the Opposition is not opposing this legislation I, for my part, do not commend it. No justification is given in the second reading speech for removing aid from the Department of Foreign Affairs. The increase in the volume and complexity of aid is no excuse for setting up a new agency. After all, as my collague,  Senator Davidson,  pointed out, aid and foreign policy have very close relationship. Personally I believe that that close relationship is best served by aid being handled by a branch of the Department of Foreign Affairs. It may be that the office now administering foreign aid required some expansion to be more effective. I ascertained during the examination of the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs that the office administering aid had a staff of some 145 people. In my view they were very effective, and I repeat that I do not deny that maybe there was an argument for increasing that staffing. But I find that the new Agency has a staff of some 477 people. Although I admit that I was delighted that the Agency has the new responsibility of Papua New Guinea added to the responsibilities of the former aid office, I find it hard to justify this very significant increase in staff. 
I would like some intimation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  as to the appointments to senior positions. How many more senior positions at the moment have been created or have to be filled, and what staff will be required to service those positions? I also worry about and would like some assurances from the Minister in relation to aid conferences overseas. Are we to find that, whereas in the past many of the conferences overseas on aid were attended by staff from our embassies overseas, we are now to have the added expense of people from Australia going to these conferences in great numbers and thus ignoring the people on the spot who, in my view, have been in the past, certainly are now, and will be in the future quite capable of representing Australia? In other words, I would like some assurances from the Minister that we are not building a huge bureaucratic machine which adds very greatly to the administrative costs of our aid programs. These are some of the points that I would make in relation to the establishment of this Agency. 
I would like some very complete assurances, despite the assurance we are given in the Minister's second reading speech, that there will be a very close liaison between the Agency and the Department of Foreign Affairs. I have a healthy suspicion of inter-departmental committees and other such committees. People who are appointed to departmental committees are very busy with their own responsibilities and their duties on these committees become a sort of part time responsibility. If there is any breakdown in liaison I feel that the value of our aid will be affected. I am pleased to have the assurance that there will be a critical analysis and evaluation of our aid program. The Minister will remember that I raised this matter at the Estimates Committee's hearing. I am pleased to have this assurance and I hope that it will be a critical analysis and evaluation as to the effectiveness of our aid, including our aid given through United Nations agencies. I always have a nasty suspicion that the bureaucratic nature- the top heavy administrationof the United Nations results in a lot of aid going in administrative expenses instead of going to the people whom we are aiming to help. So I would like some assurances from the Minister in relation to this matter. He need not necessarily give them now but perhaps he could do so during the debate on the Appropriation Bill when some of these matters could be raised again. 
After all, it is not how much is spent on aid which is important; it is the effectivenes of the aid. It is all very well to say that we should spend a certain percentage of" our gross national product- we could all spend money ad infinitum. But surely the important criterion is how effectively the money is used. I believe that we have a pretty good record in relation to the effectiveness of our aid. I believe that we should concentrate on providing assistance to those areas in which we are most effective. I refer to such areas as the provision of technical and managerial skills in underdeveloped countries to help to provide an infrastructure. While we all accept the need for humanitarian aid to be given to Bangladesh, India and other countries suffering from these tremendous human problems, I believe that we should be having a very close look at providing the sort of aid also which will help these countries to help themselves. We could pour in year after year humanitarian aid, but unless we provide aid in the form of fertiliser plants and assistance in the proper use of fertiliser in order to help them build up their own agriculture so that they are better able to feed themselves, it becomes a sort of bottomless pit. I think that we, in conjunction with other countries, should be having a very close look at helping these countries to help themselves to a far greater extent than I believe is often the case. 
As I said, I wish to speak only very briefly on this Bill. However, I wish to say that we in the Opposition will be having a very critical look at the new Agency and will be making a critical analysis of its effectiveness and its administrative costs. I wish also to make a comment on this question of aid to national liberation movements. I accept the Minister's statement that the Agency will be used to provide humanitarian aid to refugees, but I merely wish at this stage to raise one query which is in my mind. Of course, it is very difficult to distinguish between genuine refugees and terrorists. We know of the experience in Lebanon, where terrorists live in refugee camps and operate from refuge camps. It is all very well to express sympathy for the aims of some of these liberation movements. I wonder whether we would have the same sympathy if they were acting against us. This could well be the case at some future date. 
Despite the fact that aid is to be given through multi-lateral agencies and through the United Nations, it does not fill me with a great deal of confidence. Nevertheless, I would like assurances that we are going to be very careful that we do not give direct aid, in whatever form, to people engaged in acts of terrorism. It is all very well for us in this place to deplore, as we do, acts of terrorism by some people in our country, as was discussed today. But unless we are to have double standards we should equally deplore acts of terrorism by anybody regardless of the sympathy which people may have for a particular cause. I am still far from satisfied that this aid will not be used to assist any terrorist activities. If it is to be used purely for humanitarian purposes to assist refugees, then we have great sympathy with it. But I do seek some assurance that this aid, by whatever means it is to be given, will be controlled to the extent of ensuring that it is not directly assisting terrorist activities. 
One could discuss the philosophy of aid and many other matters. I think those are matters which should be discussed at some time but I do not think this is the moment to discuss it. Therefore, while we do not oppose this legislation we will certainly be keeping a very critical eye on the administration of the new statutory authority that is being formed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the Prime Minister describe the Nippon Australia Relations Agreement, known as the treaty of NARA, as his greatest achievement? Is the treaty to be signed during the visit of the Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Tanaka?  If not, what are the reasons for the delay? If the treaty is not to be signed will the Prime Minister now make a more modest assessment of his achievement? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What travel restrictions apply to Australian diplomats in the People 's Republic of China. 
What travel restrictions apply to diplomats of the People *s Republic of China in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What travel restrictions apply to Australian journalists in the People 's Republic of China. 
What travel restrictions apply to journalists from the People 's Republic of China in Australia. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is he aware that the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  has again been reported to have stated that he regarded Australia as an honorary member of the Third World and that it is up to the Third World whether Australia is accepted as a member? Is this Government policy? If so, why has the Parliament not been advised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to reports that the Department of Transport has held discussions with the airlines on the possibility of introducing a one class structure on major airline routes. I ask the Minister How far have these discussions progressed? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports on the discussions between a senior member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  Mr Suslov,  and an Australian delegation led by  Mr Renouf  in which an assurance was given that Russia had no intention of establishing a naval base in the Indian Ocean. Is the Government aware that Russia is reported to have the use of naval facilities at 
Vishakhapatham in India, Berbera, Aden and Mauritius; has a number of mooring buoys in the Indian Ocean area to facilitate the servicing of Russian naval vessels; and is also reported to be constructing facilities at Socotra at the entrance to the Red Sea? Are not the assurances given by  Mr Suslov  worthless as Russia already possesses all the facilities required to operate an increasing naval presence in the Indian Ocean? 
I do not wish to make any observations on the very interesting and wise comments made by my colleague,  Senator Cotton.  As he indicated, the Opposition supports these Bills. But I wish to refer to some of the statements made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  in his second reading speech dealing with Ansett Airlines of Australia and particularly dealing with the operations of its subsidiary in Western Australia, MacRobertson Miller Airline Services. We have come not to expect too much from the behaviour of some members of the Government. The Minister's speech on this occasion was surely intemperate and unethical even by the standards which the Minister seems to have set himself. He referred to the fact that the Government is willing to grant certain privileges to Ansett in the form of a guarantee for the loans it seeks to purchase new aircraft. I suggest that that is not a privilege at all. By any standard of fairness, it is a right. It enables Ansett to borrow money at commercial interest rates in the same manner as Trans-Australia Airlines has been doing for many years. The Minister need not try to make a martyr of himself in relation to this matter. 
The main attack in his second reading speech was on the application and on the approval of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for TAA to enter the Western Australian routes. I have said in the past that I do not oppose the entry of TAA- which I recognise as a first-class airline that deserves the support of all Australiansat the right time, at a time when it is commercially possible for the 2 airlines to operate economically. The Minister for Transport seems to think that he has a monopoly of concern regarding transport. It is quite properly a concern of the Minister, it is quite properly a concern of all governments, but air transport is also quite properly the concern of the Western Australian Government. It might suit his intentions to grant TAA immediate entry to Western Australian routes, but Western Australia is quite correctly concerned about any possibility of overall impairment to the State's air services as a result of any decision made by the Minister in Canberra. We should get some of our facts straight. The Minister for Transport has attacked Ansett over its evidence to the Royal Commission. It should be clearly understood that the present Western Australian Government made it clear, when in Opposition, that if it were returned to government at the next State election it would appoint a royal commission to ascertain whether the interests of Western Australia would be best served by the introduction of a second service at this stage in Western Australia's development. The Minister's intemperate attack upon the Royal Commission was answered by the Royal Commissioner,  Sir Reginald  Sholl, who is a very distinguished Australian. I think I should place on record what  Sir Reginald  Sholl said in reply to the Minister's attack in his second reading speech. Indeed, having adjourned the Royal Commission, he went to the extent of recalling it to reply to the Minister,  Mr Jones. Sir Reginald  said: 
I have just been handed a cutting from the evening newspaper which purports to contain a report of statements by the Federal Transport Minister. 
If it is a correct report- often things are distorted in newspaper summaries- I have no hesitation in saying that some of the comments are thoroughly improper. 
I particularly have in mind two or three observations which the Minister is reported to have made. 

 Sir Reginald was referring to the Minister's second reading speech. He went on to say: 
That perhaps is mere comment of a political nature and I have already said on an earlier occasion that I am completely uninfluenced by anything of that kind. 
Politicians say things which tribunals, judicial or quasi- judicial, often have to disregard. 
He went on to say: 
I should have thought that a Minister of experience in public life would know better than to describe in those terms submissions on which a royal commissioner has to make findings. 
These are submissions for me to consider. They have not yet been made generally public. 
I have to make up my own mind as to whether they are unduly lengthy and as to whether they are reliable or not. 
So far as their length is concerned - 
It should be remembered that  Mr Jones  criticised their length- 
I have seen nothing in them which indicates to me that they are unduly lengthy, and that applies to the submissions of both parties. 
They are, in fact, submissions which I myself directed to be lodged and they comply with the directions that I gave. 
As to whether any submission is phoney, that is wholly a matter for the tribunal. 

 Sir Reginald also said: 
It is highly undesirable that in such a place as the national Parliament descriptions of that kind should be applied to arguments or evidence put before a tribunal. 
It was reported in the 'West Australian' on 19 October. It was made on 18 October. 
I have noted that. When confronted about this matter  Mr Jones  made the surly reply: 
I was elected by the people, which is more than he was. 
That is very interesting.  Sir Reginald  was appointed by a government elected by the people. 
The Minister for Transport has claimed that the evidence is phoney. Perhaps what irks  Mr Jones  is that his views about what is good for Western Australia are not shared by a large number of Western Australians. Certainly the evidence before the Royal Commission indicates, first of all, that there is not a great deal of interest in the inquiry in the northern areas of Western Australia which is served by MacRobertson Miller Airlines. It has been reported that  Sir Reginald  has expressed disappointment about not receiving more evidence in places like Port Hedland, where only 4 witnesses came forward. There was no submission from the Port Hedland Shire Council in support of Trans-Australia Airlines' entering the service. Only 4 witnesses came forward in Broome and no evidence was submitted by the Broome Shire Council. That is true of every area he visited.  Sir Reginald  was, as I have said, somewhat concerned at the lack of interest being shown in this matter. 
If the evidence was phoney, if such an act were in the interests of Western Australia and if the people of the north were crying out for TAA's entry into the service one would have thought that there would have been a great deal of interest shown in and a great deal of evidence given in support of that. Indeed the overwhelming evidence from the people of the north was in support of MacRobertson Miller Airlines continuing as the only operator, at least for the time being. The Minister should be challenged on this matter. Is the evidence given by the airlines as to the projected traffic growth rates phoney? If he believes that it is phoney he should say so. The truth of the matter is that there has been a disappointing increase in the growth rate over the past 12 months. If  Mr Jones  is concerned about that perhaps he should tell the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  the reason. It is because the tremendous development which took place in the north prior to the advent of  Mr Connor  has come to a standstill. If the Minister thinks that that evidence is phoney let him say so. 
The Minister for Transport referred to the huge savings to the people of Western Australia by the introduction of another airline, but he did not indicate where those huge savings would come from. The evidence does not point to the possibility of huge savings being made. Certainly he referred to the fact that there would be a 2-fare structure, which is very interesting because  Mr Jones  has put an inquiry in train and had discussions with the airlines about the bringing in of a one fare structure throughout Australia. So if anybody should be accused of being phoney  Mr Jones  should be accused of being phoney in his second reading speech when he pointed to one of the advantages to the travellers in the north being a 2-fare structure. One wonders whether the first class cabin service provided by MacRobertson Miller Airlines at present would continue with a one fare structure. Before accusing other people of being phoney, perhaps the Minister should examine his own conscience. 
The truth of the matter is that the Royal Commissioner will decide these things. He was appointed to decide them. He will decide whether the evidence is phoney. He will decide whether huge savings are or are not to be made and not some bland statement by the Minister for Transport. That will happen despite the flagrant attempt by  Mr Jones  to influence the Royal Commissioner by adopting stand-over tactics. The Minister and other members of the Ministry have the unfortunate tendency to revert to the use of jackboot methods when they are unable to get their own way. This is a typical example of that. The Minister has immediately turned around and adopted stand-over tactics. Indeed, the allegation about the length and phoniness of submissions is an attack upon the many witnesses who, in good faith, have appeared before the Royal Commission and given evidenceevidence which is concerned about maintaining the very efficient and very good service which is provided in the northern areas of Western Australia. It is interesting to note that when the Royal Commissioner sat in places like Geraldton and Kalgoorlie strong opposition was expressed to the introduction of a second airline. That was expressed because they are not profitable routes for MMA. 
I suggest to  Senator Coleman  that the service between north of Geraldton to Carnarvon and Learmonth runs at a loss. They are naturally concerned because if the more profitable routes- the routes to Port Hedland, Derby and Kununurra, which are at present subsidising them- no longer subsidise the other routes the service to those areas would be reduced. That would inevitable because airlines cannot be expected to run indefinitely unprofitable services. 
The same consideration applies to the station services in the outlying areas of the Kimberleys. Evidence was given of concern that if MMA's operations became unprofitable those services would, quite naturally, be the first to suffer. One must remember that the Government's subsidy to those services has been withdrawn. The people who would suffer most and who, I suggest, matter the most are those living on low density routes. They may not matter very much to the Minister- those areas are probably considered by him to be small hamlets- but they certainly matter to the Western Australian Government and to me, as a representative in this Parliament of Western Australia. I believe that we were justified in regarding the Minister's intemperate if not arrogant attitude with a good deal of contempt. It is certainly not doing his cause or the cause of TAA in Western Australia any good. I suppose we should be thankful that the Minister's attitude will not frighten the Western Australian Government nor, as  Sir Reginald  Sholl has made clear, will it frighten him. I suggest that it would have been proper and more ethical for the Minister to have waited until the royal commissioner's report was received before making comments such as these which were undoubtedly, as  Sir Reginald  suggested, aimed to influence the royal commissioner. If anybody doubts the need for a single airline operation I suggest that he study the overwhelming evidence which has been submitted in support of such an operation. 
Another matter on which I express concern is the possibility of a loss of jobs by Western Australians particularly at a time, such as this, of high unemployment. I refer to the highly trained pilots, hostesses, engineers and others employed by MacRoberton-Miller Airlines. It is unlikely that they would find jobs with TAA, even if TAA had all the best intentions in the world, which I am sure that it would have. Another point 1 wish to make is that the operation of DC9 aircraft at the moment would be completely uneconomic on the Perth-Darwin route. Over a period of a week the average number of passengers flying Perth-Darwin or Darwin-Perth is 103, which would not fill one DC9. We know that a DC9 could operate at only 75 per cent capacity because of the state of the runways and the airports generally. Now, in these times of great difficulty, the Minister has suddenly found $4m of something to spend to upgrade the airports. I suggest that there is no need to upgrade the airports at the moment. A service is being conducted and maintained. It is an efficient service, and it is providing a first class service to the people of the north. For the Minister to quote figures of first and economy class fares, in view of his statement that he is discussing with the airlines the introduction of a one fare structure, is to say the least a phoney argument. Perhaps he works on the principle that if his actions are phoney everybody else's actions are phoney as well. 
I turn to that part of the Minister's second reading speech in which quite obviously he is putting pressure on the airlines to introduce prematurely what are known as wide bodied jets. I suggest that at this stage their introduction is highly improper. He bases his argument not on the consideration of commercial or technical grounds, as I would read it, but on political grounds only because the wide bodied jets are somewhat quieter than the present aircraft in service. All of us want to see the introduction of quieter jets, but it is a dangerous precedent for any Minister to adopt to override the commercial and technical judgments of the airlines which, as  Senator Cotton,  with all his experience of airline operations, said, have always been sound in Australia. We are very fortunate that people of the quality of the people in charge of Ansett, TAA and Qantas have never made a mistake in the introduction of new aircraft. Their judgments have always been sound. Only yesterday in the Financial Review' there was an article by John Stackhouse in which he suggested that TAA is having very grave second thoughts about the purchase of wide bodied jets in the foreseeable future. I think the suggestion is that TAA was considering cancelling its initial order for these jets because it does not believe that the time to introduce them is right. It realises, as other airlines realise, that the traffic forecasts present a pretty gloomy picture. We could easily have a cutdown in services if these jets were brought into operation too soon. 
It would also mean fewer direct flights between capital cities, which are becoming more popular today. They would have to pick up the passengers at intermediate ports. This would reduce the service which the travelling public is receiving. I would regard with grave concern the loss of direct flights from Melbourne to Perth because of the premature introduction of bigger aircraft. I believe that the matter rests with the airlines. They must make their commercial and technical judgments after a proper evaluation of traffic forecasts and of the types of aircraft most suited to their requirements. I believe that the whole history of the airline industry in Australia shows that the airlines do not require prodding or pressure of any sort from a Minister as to when they should bring into operation new types of aircraft. Their commercial and technical judgments must be respected and deserve to be respected, not the views of a Minister who knows nothing whatever about aircraft and who is not capable of making a proper evaluation of the type of aircraft to introduce into Australia or the commercial and technical reasons as to when and why they should be introduced. 
The Minister's policy of trying to pressure TAA and maybe Ansett also could have disastrous effects upon the airline industry of Australia. I suggest that his policy is already having this effect. There are growing numbers of complaints and expressions of concern at the drop in safety standards in our airline operations. I note that according to the 'Age' of 16th of this month  Mr Garlick,  the industrial officer of the Civil Air Operations Officers' Association, when advocating a civil aviation agency similar to the Federal Aviation Agency in the United States, said that aviation safety standards in Australia were going down hill and the best way to stop this was to establish a new civil aviation body. This statement expresses the concern of those involved at all levels of civil aviation at the action of this Government in abolishing the Department of Civil Aviation, which was a highly efficient organisation, and incorporating it into a great bureaucratic Department of Transport where it is losing its identity.  Mr Garlick  pointed out that it is quite possible, under the present arrangement, for an operational expert in shipping to be put in charge of air traffic control. As far as I know, the Minister has not challenged that statement. It is also intersting that in hearings before the Royal Commission counsel for the hostesses expressed concern at the safety standards of the north-west airports in Western Australia. He made the point that many TAA hostesses were concerned about poor emergency services at some Australian airports, especially in the north-west. If this be true, then it is a damning indictment of the Minister and his administration. 
I mentioned earlier the question of redundancies in Western Australia should this service be introduced too soon before proper traffic growth.  Mr Dynon,  the legal officer for the Australian Airline Hostesses Association, said that the Association took no stand one way or the other on the desirability of a second air service in the north-west but it was concerned about possible redundancies. There were now 68 air hostesses employed with MacRobertson Miller Airlines but there was no guarantee that TAA would absorb hostesses should they lose their jobs. 
I regret having to say these things but they have to be said. If a Minister makes provocative statements like this- provocative unsupported statements- then attention should be drawn to them. My concern is for an efficient air service in Western Australia. I do not wish to see the situation being changed at this stage for ideological reasons merely to satisfy the whim of a Minister. The proper course is for the Minister to await the report of the Royal Commissioner and then to consider the recommendations made in the report. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is he aware of widespread reports alleging that the People's Republic of China is a major producer of and trafficker in drugs? Is he also aware of a report that in 1952 the UN issued a warning to the People's Republic of China following reports of her involvement in drug trafficking and that since that date evidence from many countries continues to implicate the People 's Republic of China in this trade? In view of the seriousness of the drug problem, will the Minister take steps to have these allegations investigated? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he believes that the Department of Foreign Affairs is hampered in its dealings with nations because it has insufficient authority  to co-ordinate all aspects of Australia's relations with other nations. If so, in what way does he believe the authority and powers of the Department of Foreign Affairs should be expanded? Would an increase in the scope and operation-of the Department benefit this nation? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it is a fact that the Department of Foreign Affairs is hampered in its dealings with nations because it has insufficient authority to coordinate all aspects of Australia's relations with other nations. If it is a fact, should not the authority and powers of the Department of Foreign Affairs be expanded in the interests of the nation? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matter 
The role and involvement of Australia and the United Nations in the affairs of sovereign Australian Territories. 
 I support the motion that has been moved by  Senator Primmer.  I join with him in offering the appreciation of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to  Colonel Warr  our special adviser, and to the Senate secretariat,  Mr Hocking  and  Mr Livermore  who worked so well during the course of this important inquiry. I would also like to join  Senator Primmer  in expressing the appreciation of myself and, I am sure, of the other members of the Committee to the former  Chairman, Senator Drury,  under whose chairmanship the Committee, in discussing a sensitive political area, worked with the greatest of goodwill and co-operation and never once allowed political considerations to cloud its judgments. I would like also to pay tribute to  Senator Primmer  who took over at a late stage of the inquiry. Under his chairmanship the Committee continued to meet in the spirit of goodwill and co-operation that had characterised its considerations of this important subject. 
I speak only in a very limited way to the report but I wish to mention two or three matters. I join with  Senator Primmer  in hoping that this report will receive close examination in the Senate, in the Parliament, in academic circles and in the armed forces because I believe it is deserving of that consideration. I am particularly concerned about our national attitude towards defence. I would draw the Senate's attention to the Committee's views regarding Australia's overall defence requirements. I particularly draw attention to the crucial issue of appreciating the long lead times required to develop the Army, the Navy and the Air Force and hence the need to maintain a viable force irrespective of short term strategic prospects. For example it is 5 to 10 years from the time the decision is made to order any large item of equipment before delivery. It takes 8 to 10 years to train a company commander and 7 years to train an infantry sergeant. These are just indications of the lead time that is required. The Committee is concerned about this aspect because threats have a habit of arising quickly and developing before the - 
I certainly agree with the proposal of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  to have these 2 Bills debated cognately. The Opposition, while not opposing these Bills, is nevertheless very critical of them. The shadow Minister for Transport in another place,  Mr Nixon,  when debating these 2 Bills, pointed out that while we recognise that it was the previous Government's policy eventually to recover 80 per cent of the costs from industry the changing economic circumstances would probably cause us to review the past policy. Speaking on a purely personal basis in the past on similar Bills introduced by the former Government I have been critical of the charges being increasingly placed upon the airlines. This placed a great burden on the industry and was beginning to price air travel out of the reach of the average person. This was the basis of my criticism in the past and I see no reason to change this view. I hope that the Government's attitude will change, more especially towards the general aviation industry. 
This section of the industry- a very important section- has, I feel, been somewhat neglected in our thinking in the past, but today it seems to have been singled out for a crippling and unwarranted impost upon it. The general aviation industry is seriously affected by economic conditions, not only at the present but also from time to time. I intend to say something concerning the problems of this industry. It is worth noting that no other section of transport, road or rail, is expected to meet the criteria that the aviation industry is expected to meet, that is, an 80 per cent recovery of costs. It is argued that those who use the service should pay for it. This has been an argument which has been used from time to time by all political parties. I say again that I question the amount that the user has to pay because the facilities are a public utility, and further, the aviation industry has particular significance in the defence policy of Australia and to some extent should be regarded as having a very important defence potential. Governments should recognise that. 
The Minister has a rather queer notion that only silvertails use air services. Recently he referred to air services as a luxury means of travel. Of course, nothing is further from the truth. For many people from all walks of life in a country as large as Australia it is the only means of travel. 1 am thinking of the outback areas of Australia and the long distances between many of our capital cities. Air travel is the only possible means of transport. These people could well think they are being singled out and victimised by Government policy. 
Since this Government came into office air navigation charges have increased considerably. This has added significantly to the cost of air travel and, of course, air freight charges which have risen significantly too. This in itself in a real way adds to the present inflationary spiral. Despite the policies of previous governments of my political complexion they never seriously moved towards reaching a recovery target of 80 per cent. They recognised that general aviation in particular was not in a position to maintain the services required if it was going to be continually loaded with these increased charges. This Government, over the 2 years that it has been in office, has imposed savage and crippling increases upon the general aviation industry. Last year general navigation charges were increased by 100 per cent and air navigation charges by 15 per cent. This year- 12 months later- general navigation charges have been increased by 50 per cent and air navigation charges by 15 per cent. There could not be a worse time for this industry, suffering from the economic problems that it has at the moment, to meet these costs. 
Yes, only general aviation. The economic conditions being experienced in 
Australia have caused a serious downturn in general aviation business. In addition to these charges the Minister has announced in general terms new increases in costs which are to be loaded upon the industry- increases of an unknown amount. These increases were mentioned in the debate in the House of Representatives. The Minister announced that the cost of the provision, operation and maintenance of air navigation facilities and services throughout Australia amounted to approximately $140m which of course is a significant sum of money. He also pointed out that the revenue from users of those facilities and services totalled $75m. Of this amount $33 m came from air navigation charges paid by aircraft operators, $1 1. 5m from hangar and building rentals and terminal concession charges and the like, and $30.5m from aviation fuel taxes. This left a deficit between revenue and expenditure of $65 m. He went on to point out that special aerodromes for general aviation- he named many of the aerodromes- are being provided in all capital cities by the taxpayer. He pointed out that last year those facilities cost some $10m to operate and maintain. The total recovery in the general aviation industry, including air navigation charges, commercial revenue and aviation fuel tax, amounted to less than $4.5 m of the $ 10m, a recovery rate of only 44 per cent. This sounds fairly impressive. The Minister went on to say: 
The Government sees no reason why all sectors of the aviation industry should nol pay their way at least to the extent of the 80 percent recovery target set by the Government. 
If these were times of economic buoyancy and if this industry was a stable industry and if it possessed considerable economic viability, one could agree with this but this is just not the fact. The industry is in serious economic difficulties. It is an important industry to Australia. But then came the sting. The Minister went on to say- this can be read at page 344 1 of Hansard: 
It is intended, of course, to charge for many other services provided by the Department. The specific services mentioned are illustrative only. It is further intended that the full commercial cost of providing these services will be recovered. 
No one knows what that means. Earlier in his second reading speech he said: 
The actual charges have not yet been determined but will bc tabled in the Parliament as amendments to the Regulations before implementation. 
We on this side take serious exception to this. We are being asked to approve unknown charges in unknown areas. These charges will be a further load on this industry. I should like to know what it means, because I am sure that those words send a shiver down the spine of general aviation operators. It is rather typical of the muddled, befuddled way in which this Government operates. The new charges are unknown; no one knows what the charges will be. At the end of my speech I propose to move an amendment. 
I return to the extraordinary notion of the Minister that air travel is a luxury in a country the size of Australia. It is not a luxury; it is an essential means of transport. It also has great value in the area of tourism not only to Australian people but also to people from other countries. These everincreasing charges at all levels of aviation can only make tourism less attractive. Tourists are not silvertails, as the Minister seems to believe. The general aviation industry has made a submission to the Opposition, and I believe that some parts of the submission should be placed on the record of this place because they point out the injustices of these charges and the serious position in which they will place this important industry. The submission, in part, states: 
It is one thing to share money between forms of transport. It is quite another to deprive one form and to pursue a policy of repression towards it, which is what is occurring in air transport. 
The policy which has dictated the imposition of an 80 per cent cost return means that the 'industry', instead of being the province of the operational and service orientated members of the Department and airlines, is controlled by those whose interests are purely economic. 
Why has the ATG (Air Transport Group) segment of the Department of Transport been singled out to accept the burden of 80 per cent cost return and not the other 2 groups? That is , rail and road transport. Is it because of the Minister's bigoted belief that only the wealthy travel by air? 
I referred earlier to the fact that of course this is just not true. The submission further states: 
From the 'recovery' items, the bulk of the return is achieved through air navigation charges, and aviation fuel tax. To provide the 80 per cent recovery figure charges would need to be increased by a phenomenal $37. 17m in the year quoted above. 
That is 1 976-77. It continues: 
However, air navigation charges can only be increased up to a maximum of IS per cent per annum and the aviation fuel tax increases are restricted to the increase proposed from time to time on motor spirit. With inflation at 1 3 per cent per annum - 
That is a bit outdated because it is now getting to a figure of 25 per cent per annum -  increases from these sources can never bridge the gap between costs and recovery. What then is the aim of the Government? There is only one, that is to reduce expenditure so as to bring the total costs closer to the total return. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was quoting from a submission by the general aviation sector of the aircraft industry and I had reached the stage where it had questioned the aims of the Government. The submission continues: 
How is it proposed to achieve this saving? By the introduction of some or all of the following measures: Disposal of certain Government aerodromes- closure or transfer, reduction in size of the departmental aircraft fleet - 
And so on. Then the submission deals with a matter of major concern which has been referred to in other areas of aviation, that is, how the economies are going to be achieved. It states: 
Withdrawal of departmental rescue and fire fighting services from capital city secondary airports, revision of criteria for the provision of rescue and fire fighting at aerodromes with regular public transport services, review of hours of operation of airways operations and related services, to relate capacity, cost and operational need for services, review of formula for payment of, and need for, meteorological services, introduction  of a  passenger service charge, withdrawal of regular public transport services from Wynyard or Devonport, withdraw or restrict the use of facilities, review operational standards, reduce maintenance. 
The submission from which I have been quoting concludes with these remarks: 
The industry is on a path leading to contraction, reduced services, and reduced safety standards, lt is time for the aviation conscious public of Australia to see the inevitable result unless there is dramatic change forced upon the Minister for Transport. 
We have witnessed the incorporation of the very efficient former Department of Civil Aviation into some great bureaucratic tangle known as the Department of Transport. It is interesting to note the countries in the world which have done that. We are one of the very few.  Mr Nixon,  the shadow Minister for Transport, has cited the countries which do not have a separate identifiable department of civil aviation. Which countries are they? They are Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Gambia, Ruanda and Western Samoa. As he said, we are certainly in the big league of aviation in the world when we follow the example set by those countries. I am saying that the actions of this Government are forcing a severe crisis upon the general aviation sector of the industry. Even at this late stage I appeal to the Government to review its policy. One wonders whether it is not a deliberate action by the Government to drive these people out of business because I cannot believe that the Government would be so insensitive to the economic climate that exists in this area not to take note of the effect of the continued imposition of these charges upon this sector of aviation. 
I have been looking at some editorials in the magazine 'Aircraft', which has been drawing attention to this problem over the last 12 months. An editorial in volume 53 of November 1973 refers to the charges continually being imposed upon the industry and states: 
Labor's view that air transport is a pampered industrywhen so many of its units are struggling for survival- needs repudiation. 
It appeals to the Opposition, even belatedly, to take up the challenge on its behalf. Tonight I am following the Opposition's spokesman on transport,  Mr Nixon,  in taking up the challenge. I believe that this is a matter of tremendous importance because at stake is the survival of general aviation in Australia. If it fails its failure will have a grave effect upon many communities and many people in this country. Finally, I wish to quote from other editorials in 'Aircraft' over the period of the last 12 months in which this problem has become acute. The editorial in volume 53 of June 1974 states in part: 
They protested the imposition by the Whitlam Government  of a  series of crippling increases in aviation charges which could well destroy the industry . . .' And they pledged: 'Whichever Party wins the elections the general aviation industry intends to fight for a return to a sane charges structure ... a fight which will be without let-up, as it is a fight for survival'. 
I believe that the facts have clearly established that there is indeed a fight for survival insofar as the general aviation in this country is concerned. An editorial in 'Aircraft' of January 1974 under the heading 'Aviation's Voice Here Must be Much More Clearly Heard ' points to the changes which have occurred in the aviation field since the present Government came to office. I shall quote only part of it. It states: 
If there is one lesson that emerges with greater clarity for Australian aviation than any other from the welter of that troubled 1973 year, it is that the aviation community- the airlines, general aviation, the aircraft industry, the Services and departmental people as well- must in future make its voice much more clearly heard, and strongly felt. 
Those remarks are linked with remarks on how the policies of the Government have weakened the aircraft industry in general. The editorial continues: 
In other effects of the same legislation - 
Referring to the previous legislation concerning air navigation charges -  the already struggling general aviation industry is subjected to an increased tax loading averaging, we estimate, about SO per cent-- 
Which, of course, is true -  and that is not ' future shock ' but present disaster for some GA elements. 
The magazine appeals to the Opposition to face up to the realities of the situation. I believe that we are now facing up and that we will continue in the future to face up to the realities of the problems of this industry, which is so vital to 
Australia. I believe that a strong case has been made out by the industry, in particular the general aviation sector of the industry, for much more sympathetic consideration to be given by the present Government and by any future Liberal-Country Party Government if the industry is to survive and to continue to play the important part it has played in the transport industry in Australia. I know that it is probably pretty useless to make any appeal to the Government at this stage about the aviation industry in Australia because of the generally arrogant attitude of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  but I do appeal to the Government to reconsider and review these charges which it is imposing upon this industry. I believe that a strong case has been made out to show that its survival depends upon far more sympathetic and realistic consideration being shown by the Government to its problems. On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
At end of motion, add:  , but the Senate is of the opinion that, in view of the effect on the inflationary spiral, the Government should state in some detail the proposed increase in fees and charges covering a wide variety of other services provided to the aviation industry. '. 
I have already referred to the Minister's statement with regard to this matter. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matter- 
The role and involvement of Australia and the United Nations in the affairs of sovereign Australian Territories. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
REMUNERATION BILL (No. 2) 1974 Motion (by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack) agreed to: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act relating to Remuneration determined by the Remuneration Tribunal 
Bill presented, and read a first time. 
Standing Orders suspended. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to a recent article in the 'Peking Review', the wellestablished mouthpiece of the Chinese Government, which refers to Soviet control of the Baltic States ' as ruthless suppression and a policy of arbitrary assimilation of the national minorities'. As the Prime Minister has referred to Australia's relations with China as most closely representing Australia's new aspirations and in view of the Government's de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic States in the Soviet Union, does the Minister agree with the statement of China 's opposition to the Soviet incorporation of the Baltic States? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Is it a fact that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation,  Dr Moss  Cass, was allocated a government flat in Canberra in 1974? If so, on what date? Is it a fact that at the time of the allocation of a government flat to  Dr Cass  he and his wife were the owners of a house in Caley Crescent, Narrabundah? Is it also a fact that in 1973 a Commissioner for Housing loan was transferred to  Mr Al  Grassby for the purchase of a house in Wargi Place, Aranda when  Mr Grassby  's wife was already the owner of a dwelling unit in MacGregor Street, Deakin? 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs will recall that a few weeks ago I asked a question based on reports alleging that China was involved in the drug traffic. Is the Minister aware that in 1 96 1  Mr Anslinger,  the head of the United States Bureau of Narcotics, alleged that the Chinese communists were responsible for the supply of at least 65 per cent of the illicit narcotic traffic throughout the world and that similar allegations were made in the 13 September 1964 issue of 'Pravda' and in 1972 by  Dr Peter  Chapple of the National Drug Administration and Drug Centre in London? Is he aware of a report of the Japanese Bureau of Narcotics that Chinese communists earn US$1 70m annually from opium smuggling in Japan? In view of the seriousness of these allegations, will the Minister arrange for this matter to be raised in the United Nations so that the allegations can be thoroughly investigated by the world body? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the reported statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, 

 Dr Cairns, at the Australian Labor Party Conference in support of his extraordinary proposition that Australia should recognise the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnamthe terrorist organisation responsible for the wholesale murder, torture and abduction of thousands of South Vietnamese- as the Government of South Vietnam because it would bring Australia into line with the great historical movement in Asia. I ask the Minister: Does the Government share the view of the  Deputy  Prime Minister that a communist organisation that employs terrorism as its major weapon represents the great historical movement of Asia? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to a reply the Prime Minister gave yesterday to a question concerning the situation in South Vietnam. The Prime Minister replied that he had told the South Vietnamese Government that it should do more to honour the Paris peace agreements. In view of the clear evidence that North Vietnam has flagrantly and continually breached the agreements from the day they were signed, and clearly never had any intention of honouring the agreements, has the Minister or the Prime Minister protested to North Vietnam over its massive breaches of the agreements? If not, will such a protest be made, if only in the interests of evenhandedness? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. On Tuesday the Prime Minister was asked a question relating to a reply which he had given previously and to which I had referred, that he had asked the South Vietnamese Government to honour the Paris peace agreements and to bring about an end to hostilities in Vietnam. How can the South Vietnamese Government bring about an end to hostilities, except by surrender, when it is under continued massive attack from North Vietnamese troops in defiance of the Paris peace agreements? Is it not a fact that North Vietnam has increased its military strength since the signing of the agreements, in defiance of those agreements? Does the Government or the Prime Minister suggest that South Vietnam should allow itself to be conquered by military force? When will the Government inform North Vietnam that peace can best be restored when it ceases armed aggression- a fact admitted by  Mr Bowen  in the House of Representatives last week? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Minister agree with the Prime Minister's description of members of the Opposition as thugs and wreckers because, to quote the Prime Minister, 'they are out to destroy us by any means they can'? Did not the Prime Minister and members of the present Government set out to destroy and obstruct the former Government and to defeat or amend legislation to which they were opposed? Would members of the present Government then have qualified equally, according to the Prime Minister's own definition, as thugs and wreckers? Do not the Prime Minister's immoderate attacks on members of his own Party as well as on members of the Opposition for daring to question or oppose actions of the Government indicate that the Prime Minister is developing a form of megalomania? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister will recall the crude public attacks made by 3 Ministers,  Dr Cairns  and Messrs Cameron and Uren, on the  President  and Government of the United States of America over the bombing of North Vietnam. Have any of those Ministers, or the Government of which they are members, protested to the Government of North Vietnam, the People's Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam or the Khmer Rouge over the indiscriminate attacks on defenceless civilians in South Vietnam and Cambodia by artillery, rockets and mortars employed as instruments of terror? If not, will the Government make such a protest, even if only to maintain a pretence of even-handedness? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate condemns the Government of North Vietnam, the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam and the Khmer Rouge for their indiscriminate attacks on the civilian populations of South Vietnam and Cambodia; that the Senate calls upon the Government of North Vietnam, the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam and the Khmer Rouge to immediately cease acts of terrorism and barbarism against innocent civilians. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by referring to replies that the Minister gave to questions asked yesterday by my colleagues  Senator DrakeBrockman  and  Senator Greenwood  regarding breaches of the Paris Peace Agreements. Are the Minister and the Government serious in suggesting that the breaches of the Agreements by the Government of South Vietnam in any way equal the cynical and massive breaches of the Agreements by the Government of North Vietnam? Does the Minister believe that the Government of North Vietnam had any intention of honouring the Agreements? If he does, how can he explain the flagrant violations by the North Vietnamese in constructing new military roads and airfields in areas under their control, and also the continual movement of troops and sophisticated equipment provided by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China from the day the Agreements were signed? Did such violations indicate a desire by North Vietnam to obtain a peaceful settlement? 
-I do not intend to try to follow the tortuous thinking of the mind of the last  speaker.  We have heard all this before. We have read it in the Tribune'.  Senator Gietzelt  made one statement which shows him to be short on history. He referred to Vietnam being accepted throughout the world in all documents and in all agreements as one country. I do not think he knows that in 1958 or a little later a number of countries, including the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, sponsored both North and South Vietnam for membership of the United Nations. It was a package deal and the sponsorship fell down over disagreements as to who was to be in the package. But the U.S.S.R. at that time sponsored both South Vietnam and North Vietnam for membership. So it recognised the 2 countries.  Senator Gietzelt  also referred to a civil war. That is, of course, old hat or old hash, the expression used by  Mr Lee  Quan Yew.  Mr Michael  Stewart in 1 966, a Labour Foreign Minister in the United Kingdom, made a speech to the National Press Club in Canberra- his credit would be very high in the Labor Party- and he referred to North Vietnam's aggression and he said: 'Make no mistake about it '. That was a Labour Foreign Minister. In 1962 . . . 
You have had your speech, my friend, so you be quiet. In 1962 Indian and Canadian members of the International Control Commission reported to the joint chairmen of the Geneva Agreement- the United Kingdom and the U.S.S.R.- that North Vietnam was guilty of acts of aggression and subversion against South Vietnam. The Indian representatives reported this. So we can dismiss as sheer and utter nonsense - 
I just told you, my silly friend. Let us return to the debate. The statement by the 
Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  delivered yesterday, and the acts which led to this statement being made have led, of course, to this debate on a matter of urgency. The statement made yesterday clearly justifies charges of duplicity against the Prime Minister and this Government. The statement could only give support and encouragement to North Vietnamese aggression.  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew's severe criticism of  Dr Cairns  would apply equally to the Prime Minister. The North Vietnamese no longer seek by lies and deceit to conceal their massive military aggression against South Vietnam. Today they raise not the Vietcong flag but the North Vietnamese flag. The Prime Minister, no doubt in an attempt to draw attention away from the shameful and disastrous foreign and defence policies of this Government and the falsity of his claim that the South-East Asian region was becoming more stable- undoubtedly to justify the disastrous defence policies which the Government has followed- spent most of his time dealing with past policies. I do not wish to become involved with the past too much because the present and likely future situations in Indo-China are the matters to which we should be applying our minds. But it is necessary to refute several of the grossest distortions and the perverted reasoning used by the Prime Minister to justify the policy. The whole trend of his statement- and  Senator Gietzelt  can read it and re-read it- is to whitewash the acts of aggression, terror and sabotage by the North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces. 
Why did the Prime Minister condemn the bombing of Hanoi in emotional terms and not condemn the widespread use of terror- carefully documented since 1954- by North Vietnam, the indiscriminate shelling, the use of mortar fire and the use of rockets upon villages, towns and cities in South Vietnam and Cambodia? They were fired indiscriminately into market places and villages with the sole object of creating terror and tragedy. There is a silence from the Prime Minister and the Government. They had a chance yesterday to vote on this issue and they ran away from it. 
We will give you evidence,  Senator Gietzelt.  Do you deny that there has been indiscriminate shelling, mortaring and rocket fire in Phnom Penh? Do you deny it? 
You are an idiot. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Order! I ask  Senator Sim  to please address the Chair. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I will not be diverted by him again. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I ask  Senator Gietzelt  to refrain from rowdy interjections. 
I can understand his sensitivity. Does silence suggest approval or, as I suspect, just the usual double standards? Why did the Prime Minister condemn South Vietnam for vacating areas and place responsibility quite clearly on South Vietnam for the continued fighting and suffering? Why did he not condemn North Vietnam for its attacks? Why did he not advise the North Vietnamese that they should not occupy this vacated territory? There was not a word. South Vietnam is blamed. If this is not the result of tortuous and perverted thinking by the Prime Minister then nothing else is. This is the whole thrust. He did not condemn North Vietnam for the continued attacks, and nothing illustrates more than that the tortuous and perverted thinking of the Prime Minister and of this Government. The blame is on South Vietnam for vacating territory- he clearly put it there- and there is not a word to condemn North Vietnam. In the Prime Minister's eyes those who resist violation of their territory are the guilty parties, and this the Opposition rejects with contempt. The Government's criticism of North Vietnam is muted, but of South Vietnam it is strident. The Prime Minister's attitude as disclosed yesterday is cynical and immoral in the extreme. 
Because time is catching up, I turn very briefly to allegations that the United States of America and South Vietnam violated the Geneva Accords by rejecting free elections. I wonder whether the Prime Minister was serious. Does he seriously suggest that in North Vietnam political parties from South Vietnam would be free to operate an election campaign? That would be strange. But the major issue involved is that from 1954 to 1956, a period when the Prime Minister and this Government claim there should have been free elections, the North Vietnamese were engaged in a pleasant little game of land reform. This land reform took place in a series of purges. Torture, terror and executions were the order of the day. I have first-class authority for this and it is none other than General Giap, then the CommanderinChief of the North Vietnamese forces. 
It is spelt G-i-a-p. My friend 's ignorance astounds me. General Giap said in 1956: 
Seeing enemies everywhere we resorted to terror, which became far too widespread - 
A little terror was all right, apparently- while carrying out our land reform program we failed to respect the principles of freedom of faith and worship in many areas. Worse still torture came to be regarded as a normal practice during party reorganisation. 
That was the situation in North Vietnam between 1954 and 1956. The Prime Minister cynically and falsely blames the United States and South Vietnam for not agreeing to free elections during that period. How could free elections be held in a situation in which General Giap admits that terror was far too widespread? Why did the Prime Minister ignore this truth? His statement was a monstrous distortion and misrepresentation of the facts. 
The Prime Minister spent a great deal of time attacking military intervention and he dealt very harshly with the previous Government. But it is rather interesting to recall that when I spoke on Vietnam in 1968, I think it was, I quoted none other than the then Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Calwell.  I think that I can remember fairly accurately what he said. He said that the call by the Soviet Union to withdraw all foreign troops from Vietnam was in the interests neither of South Vietnam nor of Australia. He said that the main objective would be to bring communism closer to Australia. He went on to say that the presence of allied forces in South Vietnam was justified as a holding operation.  Mr Calwell  made those remarks in 1965 following a Federal Executive meeting of the Labor Party. When I quoted  Mr Cal  well's remarks on that previous occasion my friend,  Senator Mulvihill,  who is not here, interjected and said: 'That is a good statement'. So  Senator Mulvihill  agreed with the remarks made by the then Leader of the Labor Party in 1965 supporting the presence of foreign troops in South Vietnam. 
The Prime Minister dealt with the matter of a political settlement and criticised the South Vietnamese and the United States for not agreeing to a political settlement. I will just quote from the remarks of  Mr Calwell  once again. A little further on he said: 
Its immediate consequence must be a communist takeover of South Vietnam snuffing out the hope of freedom and of democratic independence in that country and extending the area of communist control closer to this country. 
That statement was made on 1 9 February 1 965. 
It is a good authority, but the Labor Party today denies the person who made the statement. He certainly changed his mind later on, unfortunately. I wish now to deal quickly with the question of a political settlement. Everyone knows that the whole objective of communist parties everywhere is to seek a united front government. They then purge all the non-communists, as we have seen in China, North Vietnam, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, and we know of it happening recently in Portugal. It always ends as a communist takeover. If that proposition is not attractive to the South Vietnamese or to others, who would wonder? That has always been the history of political settlements. If time permitted, I intended to say a few more things that I thought would be constructive regarding past policies. However, I shall conclude by saying that a political settlement would not be the answer, and I wonder why this Government, which is so concerned with human suffering, has never proposed that the easiest way, the most effective way, in which to end this war is for the North Vietnamese to go home and let the South Vietnamese solve their problems and decide their own self-determination, which has always been a sacred objective of the Labor Party. Why does the Labor Party today deny that to the people of South Vietnam who in every election have always voted strongly against communism, as they are voting today on their feet? Elections have been observed, and there have been observations by members of the Labor Party who have all reported that in the circumstances they have been as free as could be reasonably expected. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the Government decided to scale down its refugee aid in South Vietnam as a result of a protest from Hanoi about Australia's role in rescuing refugees? If a protest was made by Hanoi, what was the nature of the protest? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a reported statement by  Mr Renouf,  the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, that 'recent fighting in South Vietnam could be better described as a government withdrawal rather than as a Viet Cong offensive'. I ask the Minister whether it is a fact that prior to the military withdrawal from the Central Highlands South Vietnamese forces were under strong and constant attack from North Vietnamese, not Viet Cong forces, and that a number of strategic positions had been lost. Is it also not a fact that throughout South Vietnam North Vietnamese and not Viet Cong military attacks have been increasing, placing South Vietnamese forces under extreme military pressure? If so, on what basis did  Mr Renouf  make his statement? 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs advise as to what is the area of dispute between Japan and Australia that is delaying the signing of the NARA Treaty? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government aware of reports that captured North Viet.manese documents call for the elimination of local officials at the lowest levels and of the leaders of regional and popular as well as police and intelligence agencies, and that public tribunals are to be set up for the punishment of individuals who- in the words of the North Vietnamesehave fought against peace? Is the Minister aware of allegations of brutality by North Vietnamese troops in occupied territory? Will the Government use its influence in Hanoi to persuade the North Vietnamese Government to permit international organisations to move freely in occupied territory and so act as a restraint on acts of terror? 1 am sure the Minister will recall the events that occurred in North Vietnam between 1954 and 1956 when terror was unleashed on the people of that country. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the North Vietnamese Government has continually insisted that negotiations for peace in Vietnam would be undertaken as soon as President Thieu had been removed? Has President Thieu now resigned? Is it also a fact that the North Vietnamese Government now demands that further conditions be met before negotiations commence? Does this not indicate further the insincerity and the dishonesty of the North Vietnamese Government in obtaining a political settlement rather than a military settlement? 
I feel a little bit sorry for  Senator Everett  because even for a lawyer it is difficult to defend the indefensible. I remind  Senator Everett  that this motion is not a censure of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The Prime Minister is not mentioned in the motion. The censure motion specifically mentions the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee).  I draw  Senator Everett's  attention to the reply on page 853 of Hansard of 9 April by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to a question in which he said: 
I have seen the cables. 
He said 'the cables', not 'the communications'. This motion refers to cables, not what the Prime Minister may or may not have said in another place. Therefore this debate is related purely to the allegation that in relation to the cables the Foreign Minister misled and deceived the Senate. There is only one issue involved in this debate. Anything else is a side issue. The one issue is: Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs deceived the Parliament? Anything else is irrelevant to this debate. I refer to the disclosure of the cables. One must say that one deplores the disclosure to the Press of secret Government communications, but the fact is that the cables were disclosed. They make it quite clear that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he has read and reread the cables and they are substantially similar, or words to that effect, is quite untrue. That is all we are debating. No one with any understanding of the English language or with any logic could after reading these cables disbelieve the allegation that they are entirely different and not, as is claimed by the Government, substantially the same. The Government has always proclaimed its even-handedness in its relations with Vietnam. This reminds me of the story of the producer of tinned rabbit who was asked by a friend whether he put anything else in the tins apart from rabbit. He said: 'Oh, a little horse meat'. His friend asked: 'How much?' The producer said: 'Fifty-fifty- one horse, one rabbit'. The Government's even-handedness in relation to Indo-China has indeed been a matter of one horse, one rabbit. The horse was the communists and the rabbit was the South Vietnamese. 
Nothing illustrates a greater lack of evenhandedness than the disclosure of these cables. They clearly disclose a deceitful bias towards Hanoi. It is necessary in this debate again to remind the Senate of the cable to Hanoi, which incidentally consists of some 450 words whereas the cable to Saigon consists of some 100 words. How anybody could successfully argue that an additional 350 words in one cable means the cables were substantially the same is certainly beyond my imagination. 
I think it is beyond your standing too,  Senator Devitt.  Let me refer to paragraph 2.A of the cable to Hanoi. The Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs said: 
We would genuinely like to see in Saigon a Government - 
This is the cable to North Vietnam and bear in mind the 'even-handed policy'-  which will genuinely negotiate for reunification as provided for in the Paris agreements. 
In the cable to Saigon there is no similar statement that Australia would like to see in Hanoi a government which will genuinely negotiate in accordance with the Paris Agreements. I remind Government supporters of a document prepared by the Minister's own Department, dated 30 January, setting out the breaches of the Paris Peace Agreements and of which the Minister and the Prime Minister must have been aware. According to my reading of the document 90 per cent of the breaches were laid by the Department of Foreign Affairs at the door of North Vietnam. It might be 85 per cent but certainly the overwhelming percentage of the breaches was laid at the door of North Vietnam. Yet with full knowledge of this the Prime Minister said that he wished to see in Saigon a government which this Government recognised as the lawful government of Saigon. In the cable to Hanoi the Prime Minister went on in 2.B to say: 
We appreciate that Thieu (South Vietnam's President . . .) has given no indications that he is willing to do that, and the Australian Government understands the sense of frustration which has given rise to renewed recourse to military pressure on Thieu although it cannot condone that recourse. 
In the cable to Saigon there is no criticism of the simple fact that at the signing of the Peace Agreements the North Vietnamese had some 1 45 000 Regular troops in South Vietnam. At the time this cable was sent the North Vietnamese had some 400 000 Regular troops in South Vietnam. In addition there was a massive buildup of the most sophisticated war equipment supplied mainly by the Soviet Union. The Prime Minister ignores that, completely. He says he understands the frustration. But what about the frustration of the South Vietnamese who had full knowledge that North Vietnam in complete breach of the agreements was being armed in a massive way by the Soviet Union and the People 's Republic of China? There is no recognition of that fact in the cable which was sent to South Vietnam. In other words, the Prime Minister is trying to whitewash the continued acts of aggression by North Vietnam in clear breach of the Paris Peace Agreements. 
I turn now to paragraph 4 of the cable to Hanoi. I was interested to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs state in his apology today that whereas the Opposition had always sought a military solution the Government had always sought a solution by negotiation. That sounds strange in view of paragraph 4 of the cable sent to Hanoi because the Prime Minister said: 
We appreciate that the foregoing approach may be interpreted by the DRV and PRG as simply an attempt to cut across an inevitable military victory. 
Here the Prime Minister was surely propounding a military victory- not negotiations, not peace; an inevitable military victory- and apologising for having to send a cable couched in these mild terms. That cable went on to say: 
The acting Minister nevertheless considers that the approach should be made at this point of the war and notes the continuing statements to you and publicly about the PRG desire for a negotiated settlement in conforming with the political provisions of the Paris agreements. 
That is extraordinary, is it not? Although there was a massive build-up in arms and there were continued attacks day and night against the South Vietnamese the Provisional Revolutionary Government wanted a negotiated settlement conforming with the political provisions of the Paris Agreements. 
That was sent to Hanoi, yes. We were told the cables were substantially the same but we find that the 100-word cable to South Vietnam was from start to finish a denunciation of the South Vietnamese Government. When we read paragraph 3 of the cable to Saigon we see a most extraordinary statement. These words were addressed to the Ambassador: 
We should like you if and as circumstances permit to make this Australian position known to South Vietnamese who are not members of the Government but who might yet play an influential political role. 
Those are the words of the Prime Minister and Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs inviting an Australian Ambassador accredited to a lawful government to go behind that government's back and to make contact with those who might bring about the overthrow of that government. There is no recognition there that there may have been people who disagreed with the massive breaches by North Vietnam. There was no attempt to suggest to the Ambassador that he go behind the back of the North Vietnamese Government to find people who might honour the peace agreements. I believe that this has never happened before in international relations. I believe that never before has a Prime Minister suggested to an Ambassador accredited to a lawful and established government that he should make contact with people likely to bring about the collapse of that government. How anybody can argue in the face of these quotations that these cables are substantially the same is beyond comprehension. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in reply to a question: 'There is not one atom of truth in these allegations.' I must quote him correctly. He said: 
I have seen the cables. There is not one atom of truth - 
Apparently there was an interjection and he did not finish what he was going to say but obviously he was going to say 'in these allegations' or words to that effect. Later he said: 
I have read them before and I have read them again this morning. The statements that have been made - 
The statements that the cables were different-  are quite untrue. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has condemned himself out of his own mouth. Anybody who reads these cables cannot ignore the unfortunate fact that the cables in truth are significantly different. It must be pointed out, as I have mentioned before, that in the cable to North Vietnam there was no recognition of the blatant abuses of the Paris Peace Agreements by North Vietnam. There was no reference to the massive support from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the People's Republic of China. The Prime Minister made some vague reference to the United States of America in one of his statements but completely ignored the Soviet Union. That again, I suppose, is the one horse, one rabbit syndrome. 
If the Government had been honest and had come out and said that it supported the North Vietnamese in their campaign against South Vietnam at least it would have had the honesty and courage to make its position clear. While we would have disagreed with it, we would have recognised that it had the courage to state where it stood. Instead the Government, by deceit and dishonesty, has tried to mislead the people into believing that it was adopting an even-handed policy. An open statement of support at least could be recognised, and it could be appreciated that the Government was honest. Perhaps the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has been more honest in his quite open support for North Vietnam. However the plain fact is that the Government lacked the courage to take the Parliament and the people into its confidence as to its true policies in relation to Indo-China. Obviously it was afraid of public reaction and it sought by deceit to mislead the Parliament and the people. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was a party to this deceit and he deserves the censure of the Senate. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs had discussions with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labor and Immigration on the subject of Vietnamese refugees? If so, has any decision been made on the number of refugees to be admitted to Australia? What will be the guidelines for admission? Have any quotas been fixed? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it the intention of the Minister to make a statement in the Senate on the Government's assessment of the changed situation following the collapse in Indo-China? If so, when does he intend to make it? 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It is the result of a compromise within the Government. We all know that prior - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
-After a false start on this Bill about 48 hours ago, I am glad that at last it has come before the Senate. The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. We realise that the amendments which have been proposed by the Government in the Bill are the result of a compromise within the Australian Labor Party. We are well aware that the left wing of that party wishes that all United States bases in Australia be abolished. We are pleased that the more responsible elements in that Party imposed their will and that the United States bases remain. The legislation does not to any major extent and only to a minor extent alter the reality of the situation that has existed since the base was established. If the Bill placates the left wing of the Labor Party, we are not going to quarrel with the measure. If it satisfies some nationalistic feelings within Australia, we are not quarelling about that, either. 
The Minister pointed out in his second reading speech that the Bill provides for 3 amendments. An amendment to article 1 of the agreement provides that the base will be jointly operated. An Australian Deputy Commander has been appointed, and he has been on duty since, I think, July of last year, I point out that Australia always has had a naval officer at the base. This is a more senior officer who has a more senior appointment. We do not quarrel with that change. 
An amendment to article 2 limits United States control to the exclusive occupation of a national room. As one who has visited the North West Cape base on many occasions, I know that the reality of the situation is that the base always has been open to the general public except for the national room, which always has been exclusively for only United States naval personnel, and that arrangement operates for very good reasons. Therefore, in fact, little change is being made in that situation. The only change is that the amendment provides that there shall be also an Australian national room. The facts were that if Australia required- it was seldom required, because of the nature of the base- to pass messages to Australian vessels, it always could do so. We now have a national room of our own. We are not quite clear about what that means, but if it satisfies the Government and it placates the opponents of United States bases, we have no quarrel with it. 
The third amendment is an amendment to article 14, which limits the Australian financial commitment to the cost associated with the location of elements of the Royal Australian Navy at the station. We understand that there will be a contingent of about 47 officers and men there as from the end of June 1975. That, in itself, does not alter the situation in the slightest. I think I can say that the amendments proposed in this legislation have failed to stir either our patriotic fervour or our opposition. We have a Deputy Commander at the base, and that is well and good. Our only concern is that the base should retain its operational functions as an important link in the United States naval communications network. The legislation does not in any way alter that arrangement or weaken the importance of the base as part of the United States naval radio network. 
Indeed, as  Senator Wright  has reminded me, the United States still has exclusive use and occupancy. If we do not see much good in the legislation, we see no harm in it. The changes being brought about by this Bill are quite insignificant having regard to the major operation of the base, and therefore the Opposition will not oppose the legislation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was Tran Van Lam, former South Vietnamese Ambassador to Australia and former  President  of the South Vietnamese Senate, assured by the former Australian Ambassador to South Vietnam,  Mr Price,  that he would be welcome to settle in Australia? Is it also a fact that  Mr Lam  's wife and family are resident in Australia? If these facts be correct, why is the Government now giving  Mr Lam  the run around? Is the reason that the Prime Minister is more concerned with currying favour with Hanoi than the humane and decent treatment of  Mr Lam  and his family? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware of the serious financial effect the increased aviation charges will have on the Flying Doctor Service? In view of the splendid service provided by the Flying Doctor Service in outback Australia will the Government consider exempting the Flying Doctor Service from the increased charges? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Government accept any responsibility for statements concerning foreign policy by senior Australian Ministers when they travel overseas? What authority did  Dr Cairns  have from the Government for the statement attributed to him in New Delhi which I am sure the Minister has seen? Does that statement represent the views of the Government? If not, will the Government repudiate the statement by  Dr Cairns  and take steps to ensure that the Australian Government is not embarrassed by such statements in the future? If the 
Government does agree with the statement of  Dr Cairns,  how does the Government reconcile that statement with the statement made by the Prime Minister in the United States? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the recent reported criticism by the leaders of some developing nations, notably Singapore and the Philippines, of the restrictive trade policies being followed by Australia, particularly in relation to imports of textiles which are vital industries in those countries. Is the Minister aware that trade restrictions on imports from developing countries are harmful to our relations with those countries? Is the Minister aware of these complaints? If so, what is the Minister and the Department of Foreign Affairs doing to influence the Government to adopt policies which preserve our international relations by encouraging the economic development of developing nations? Does the Minister agree that the development of trade is the best solution to many of the problems of developing nations? Should not Australia encourage and assist developing nations to improve their trade position, even if only in our own self interest? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will recall that last week I asked him a question concerning the serious financial effect that the new aviation charges will have on the Royal Flying Doctor Service and that he undertook to obtain a reply to my question. I now ask the Minister: Has he any information to give to me? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence- 
The procurement policies of the defence forces in the context of what is publicly known as the strategic assessment. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who is representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. As the Government has recognised the Provisional Revolutionary Government as the Government of South Vietnam I ask: Is it a fact that North Vietnam has not recognised the PRG as the Government of South Vietnam? Is it also a fact that the administration of South Vietnam is being conducted by North Vietnamese military forces and not the PRG? Is the Minister aware that all indications are that the control of South Vietnam will be exercised by the People's Revolutionary Party of South Vietnam, referred to by North Vietnam as the southern party, and that the PRG has never been more than a shadow organisation with no right of independent action? When will the Government recognise the realities of the situation in South Vietnam? 
I wish to direct my comments to the Customs Tariff Validation Bill. I regret the rather sloppy way in which Parliament deals with Bills of this kind. In saying that, I do not point to the present Government. It seems to have become the practice over many years now to introduce this type of legislation towards the end of the sitting, although I recall some years ago that we used to have some very detailed debates on tariff policy in the Senate and in the Parliament, and unfortunately we no longer seem to deal with this important matter in the manner which I believe it warrants. The issues involved are complex and affect, in one way or another, many sections of the community. They also affect the livelihood of many people, not only in Australia but also outside Australia. They affect the development of the economies of developing nations, and we should not be unmindful of this fact. World trade policies, including Australian trade policies, are important to the welfare of developing nations. 
This Bill covers some 20 reports ranging from mushrooms to motor cars and covering the production of a wide range of industries in Australia- textiles, diesel engines exceeding 1500 kilowatts, food processing machinery, foundation garments and so on. The Bill also covers reports by the Temporary Assistance Authority, covering again a wide range of goods. Yet Parliament has had no opportunity to examine these Bills or to discuss the reports. I believe that Parliament should have this opportunity. We are being asked tonight to validate decisions that confer great advantages upon some sections of industry and great disadvantages upon others. 
For example, the motor car industry has a consumer subsidy of some $300m and a great deal of time was spent, both in the other place and in the Senate, discussing a system for an industry in Tasmania to receive a grant of some $650,000. 
I am not arguing whether the recommendations which have been accepted by the Government are right or wrong; this is not the point in dispute. But I am arguing that Parliament should discuss these decisions because they are important and every decision in these reports has an important effect upon the economy of Australia. Having taken part in tariff debates over the years I realise that they are sometimes occasions for heated argument. This, of course, is understandable. I think I am on record, over many years in this Parliament, of having been critical of the tariff policy followed by the Government that I supported and, to some extent, the tariff policy of the present Government although I have some difficulty in understanding what the tariff policy of the present Government is. 
I noted that  Senator James  McClelland, when he was Minister for Manufacturing Industry, was putting forward a point of view with which I would not find myself in great disagreement; but I do not think his view was necessarily the view of the Government. I disagreed on many occasions with the policy of the previous LiberalCountry Party Government and I am on record as having expressed my view quite clearly in the Senate. 
I have argued in the past against high levels of protection because I believe that in many cases they have distorted investment in Australia. We have always had scant resources and the protection has been directed into high cost industries and has often caused the fragmentation of many industries. I well recall in 1966 opposing decisions of the then Government in relation to the motor car industry. I recall on that occasion having argued that the Government's decision inevitably would mean the fragmentation of the industry- we would have too many manufacturers producing for a small market. Indeed, I believe the troubles that the motor car industry has suffered since then, particularly in recent times, to a great extent has been due to the decisions made in 1964, 1965 and 1966. 
One of the great problems with tariff policy is that the Parliament has never really influenced it and that insufficient members of Parliament have been interested. I think that in the Senate in former days ex-Senator Bull and myself were really the only two on my side of the Parliament who were interested in the matter. In the other place,  Mr Kelly  had been for many years a strong fighter for a moderation of tariff policy. He has support from time to time from  Mr Street, Mr Maisey  and a few others. There has never been a real interest in the Parliament in tariff policy and its effect upon the economic health of the nation. 
I was rather interested to read that in the debate in the House of Representatives  Mr Kelly  put forward a proposal that a standing committee of the House of Representatives be appointed to examine tariff proposals. It may well be that a proposal of this type is the answer to the problem of the Parliament examining thoroughly these rather boring, complex and tedious reports on tariffs and protection generally. I certainly believe that the Parliament has a responsibility to examine these reports and to be satisfied that they are in the national interest. I have no desire at this stage to enter into areas of controversy. I have never believed that the decision of the Government to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent was responsible for all our ills. I have been critical of the suddenness of the decision, I have been critical of the fact that no opportunity was given to sections of industry to adjust, and I have been critical that the cut was a general cut which affected many industries which did not deserve to be affected. Those industries may well have been in a weak position and may have been in need of continued assistance. Although I have always advocated moderate and low areas of protection and the encouragement of investment in industries, I have never argued against reasonable protection for Australian industries. 
I believe there is a strong argument for restructuring of industries, where justified, after proper investigation and that such a move should not be resisted. High cost industries and inefficient industries have a major effect upon the cost structure of Australia. Primary industries have had to face up to the problem of restructuring. I see no reason why secondary industry should not face up to this problem also. Other nations have faced up to it to meet changing economic conditions. Japan is a striking example. The great textile industries of Japan are being phased out today because they have become high cost industries and Japan is finding itself unable to compete with low cost countries such as Korea, Taiwan and South-East Asian countries. The Japanese textile industry is investing in these countries. It is not affecting the sale of Australian raw materials to Japan, because there is increasing Japanese investment in other countries. I repeat that Japan is phasing out its textile industry and other high cost industries to meet changing positions. Japan  is  doing this with the customary realism and economic realism of the Japanese. 
Finally, I return to the effect of high protection on economic development because I believe the national interest is best served by a realistic approach to the problems facing the developing nations. I conclude on this note because I want to finish by 11 p.m. Internationally -Australia has always been critical of restrictions imposed on overseas trade by other nations. I refer to statements on this matter by  Sir John  McEwen and the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who was recently highly critical of the restrictive policies followed by the European Economic Community. I wondered with what bemusement these countries must have considered the criticism by our leaders, because in trying to trade with Australia they have been met with restrictions. They have great difficulty in penetrating our market. I conclude on that note. I do not. oppose the legislation. 
Debate interrupted. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs any information as to the authority being exercised in South Vietnam by the Provisional Revolutionary Government? Is he aware of reports by communist correspondents that there is now only one party and one army in Vietnam and that Hanoi is giving directives on matters such as the clearing of streets, and the decoration of streets, houses and roads in South Vietnam? If the Minister is not aware of these reports and others in a similar vein, will he undertake to ascertain the facts and advise the Senate who is exercising real authority in South Vietnam? 
I refer to a reply which the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave yesterday to a question I asked as to who was exercising control in South Vietnam. The Minister indicated that South Vietnam was largely under military administration. As the Government has recognised the Provisional Revolutionary Government as the government of South Vietnam and as the Minister indicated that the Provisional Revolutionary Government is not exercising control in South Vietnam, I ask the Minister: To whom is the Australian Ambassador, when  appointed,  to be accredited? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Last week I directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs several questions concerning the status of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, and I asked to which government the Australia Ambassador is to be accredited. The Minister advised that the Australian Ambassador is to be accredited to the Provisional Revolutionary Government. I now ask: Is the Minister aware of a reported statement by the Foreign Ministers of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam and of North Vietnam made in Lima, where I understand the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs is at present, stating 'the unification of Vietnam is now accomplished and an official announcement is now only a matter of procedure'? In view of this statement, is it still the Government's intention to accredit an Australian Ambassador to a non-existent government of a non-existent state? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. If the Minister does not have the details in his possession I would appreciate it if he could obtain them for me. What was the cost of operating and maintaining Essendon airport in the financial year 1974-75? What revenue was obtained from the airport in that year? How many aircraft movements were there in that year? Under the policy of full recovery, what justification is there for retaining Essendon airport as an aviation asset? 
-It is no wonder that members of the Government Party are reluctant to talk about the Budget. They talk about everything but the Budget. That is, of course, understandable. I think it is true that both the Government and the Opposition today face a challenge. That challenge is to present economic policies that would restore to good health a sick and shattered economy, an economy that is bedevilled by the twin evils of inflation and unemployment, but an economy shattered largely because of the policies that this Government has followed over the past 3 years. Even the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who seems to enjoy the superficial trappings of powers more than exercising the authority and responsibilities of power, has at last had the good grace to acknowledge this self evident fact. 
However, it is all very well to acknowledge the fact. There is little evidence that the Government, having in some cases at last recognised the fact, accepts just how serious a state the economy is in. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  admittedly on several occasions has spoken of Australia being involved in a deep recession. Perhaps we should be thankful for small mercies. At last, there is at least one Minister who acknowledges this simple fact. However, it is one thing to acknowledge it and it is another to do something about it, to produce policies that will cure the situation. I think it is difficult to accept today that the people of Australia believe that a government which is capable of the irresponsibility and incompetence of which this Government has shown itself capable during the last 3 years is able to lead this nation out of the mess which it has created. 
Perhaps the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  is entitled to at least some commendation. One must feel sorry for him because he did inherit a mess from 2 Teasurers whom the Prime Minister saw fit to sack. There is no doubt that  Mr Hayden,  within the limitations that have been placed upon him, has acknowledged some of the problems. That is something, anyway. He is faced with a situation of trying to remedy a condition brought about by the policies of previous Treasurers who seemed intent on creating economic chaos as they chased the pipe-dreams and fed the sacred cows of the Labor Government. All this has resulted in an unstable economy and a high, almost crippling, rate of inflation. It is among the highest in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. Yet, Australia has been largely isolated from the economic factors that have created a high rate of inflation in many of these countries. 
I know that  Senator Carrick  drew our attention to the fact that the Prime Minister has now dropped this line and speaks of wages as being one of the major factors. I can remember in better days than now that every time the former  Senator Murphy,  when he was Leader of the Government in the Senate, was asked a question about the economic situation in Australia he would throw his hands up in the air and say: Well, what can we do about it? It is imported from other countries'.  Senator Carrick  quoted from the OECD Economic Surveys of July 1975. I have pointed out that the Prime Minister has acknowledged what a significant organisation this is. I think what is stated in the introduction of the Report is worth repeating. It states: 
As in most Member countries, there was a marked weakening of demand and activity in Australia during 1974 and the early part of this year and unemployment rose to record levels for the postwar period. But - 
This is the crunch- despite the fact that the world oil price increase had only a minor direct effect, inflation accelerated- fuelled by rapidly rising wage costs- to the highest rate experienced since the Korean boom. 
That was in 1951. On page 15 of that report under the heading 'Prices and Incomes' the report states: 
As indicated earlier, Australia's experience last year in regard to price stability was again unfavourable in comparison with the OECD area as a whole, while the rate of wage increase was one of the highest in the area. 
On the same page- I think this is a significant factor- the report continues: 
Measures of domestic price movements indicated a marked acceleration of inflationary pressures last year- indeed, the rate of increase shown by the main implicit deflators of domestic demand at least doubled. While the rate of increase in the overall GDP price deflator for the OECD area as a whole rose from 8 per cent in 1973 to 14!4 last year, the corresponding figures for Australia were 1  Vh  and 16 respectively. 
In the face of those figures and those facts, it can no longer be argued that Australia's inflation has been imported. We have, as the report says, been largely isolated from the factors that have caused inflation in the member states of the OECD. Another factor which is very worrying and one about which the Government has done very little is private investment. Even the Treasurer, towards the end of his Budget Speech- rather plaintively, I thought- made a reference to it. He stated: 
With the exception of business investment expenditure, which remains the weakest area of prospective demand, other components of domestic spending should show a strengthening trend . . . 
At least, he acknowledged it, but he did nothing about it. No one could argue that a 2V4 per cent cut in company tax will inspire private enterprise to invest with any confidence for the future. At least the Government acknowledges this problem, even if it has done nothing about it. I suppose again we should be thankful for small mercies. 
Before the introduction of the Budget, the Treasurer, in a number of statements, raised hopes that the Budget would in fact provide encouragement to the private sector which, of course, is responsible for the employment of some 75 per cent of the workforce in Australia. Unfortunately, the Treasurer's words were stronger than his actions and the Budget has done nothing to restore confidence in the private sector. Until private business is given confidence the economy will not begin to improve and unemployment will continue to rise. Productivity is the key to restoring the economy. This fact is acknowledged by every advanced nation and Germany and Japan are prime examples but I do not think productivity merited even a mention in the Budget Speech. Speaking of unemployment, it is well to remember past days when we had an unemployment rate of 1.8 per cent and the squeals which came from the then Opposition about the misery that was being caused. But what hope have we - 
-It was 1969, 1970, 1971. 
It was never much higher than 2.1 per cent. The publication of the Institute of Public Affairs,  Facts,  of April/May this year contained some interesting statistics. It mentioned that until recently Australia was one of two or three of the most successful countries in achieving full employment. It then quoted statistics on the percentage increase in unemployment for the latest available 12 months and I cite a couple of examples: Denmark was the highest with. 358 per cent and Australia had 272 per cent. Honourable senators should remember that that was some months ago and the rate has increased considerably since then. Germany had 163 per cent, Japan 41 per cent, Britain 28 per cent and Italy 3 per cent. Because of this Government's ability to destroy the economy we have had an ever increasing level of unemployment. I do not know how  Mr Hawke  stands in the Labor Party but  Mr Dunstan  says that he will be the next leader.  Mr Hawke  seems to envisage a figure of 500 000 unemployed early next year. Having quoted those figures I want to come back to the question of productivity which is the key to the restoration of economic health. Unfortunately this dogma ridden Government does not seem to have even begun to understand this simple fact. Until the Government does understand it, or until such time as it is kicked out of office, there is no hope for the future. I repeat that the Budget gives absolutely no hope or encouragement for an increase in productivity. Perhaps it would have done the Treasurer's heart good if he had gone to a country such as Japan which until recently had an extremely high inflation rate because of the energy crisis. Now, because of the co- operation of the Government, the business sector and the unions - 
I am referring to Japan,  Senator Georges,  where the rate of inflation in the last 12 months has been reduced to 14 per cent. 
It has a Liberal Democratic Government. 
The Japanese have a system which works very successfully. In that country it is recognised by the Government and by the unions- do not forget that, 'by the unions'- that productivity is the key to success. The major objective of the economic policies of the most successful countries has been productivity. 
I just mentioned two of them. If the honourable senator wants to look for more he can do so. They are two of the most successful countries in the world. 
I just named Germany and Japan. If  Senator Poyser  wants to look for more he can do so. He should look, for example, at the United States of America were inflation is down to about 8 per cent. That too is a country which encourages productivity. I take it from the interruptions that what I am saying is hurting Government supporters. They realise the truth of what I say. If they do not, it shows what a hopeless situation we are in. 
It appears that this Government's objective was just the opposite; hence the almighty economic mess that this country is in. It is unbelievable that the sound economy inherited by this Government in 1972 could be wrecked so quickly. If this Government had shown the same ability to build as it has to destroy, Australia today would possess a strong and stable economy. 
That, my friend, came out of my little head. I do not have to rely on newspapers.  Senator Poyser  might have to do so. Probably he has to rely on the  Red Flag  or something like that but I do not. 
That is interesting. The honourable sentator should use them. The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, has announced on behalf of the Opposition a policy which has been acknowledged as representing a viable and sound alternative to the policies of this Government. It is not my intention tonight to repeat the announced policy of  Mr Fraser  during his reply to the Budget but I do say that it placed empasis on the individual and expressed faith in individual Australians. This Government has no faith in individual Australians. We of the Opposition believe in the individual judgments of Australians. We believe that they are better able to make decisions as to their lives than any government of any political complexion. We will ensure by our policies that individuals will be given this opportunity. We believe that the private sector, given the right impetus and the opportunity to have confidence in the policies of the Government, will respond. We believe that Australians, given leadership, will also respond. It is the Government's responsibility to provide incentives and to instil confidence by good management and sound policies. In that area this Government has failed dismally. Our alternative policies will stimulate production and investment. I have sufficient faith in the average Australian, even if the Government has not, to believe that we can stimulate production and investment if the challenge which faces us is put squarely to the average Australian and he is told that his expectations can be achieved only by a sound and developed economy, and by hard work and co-operation. It cannot be achieved by developing the welfare state and the welfare mentality which is the product of socialist thinking. It is demeaning for people to rely on everything from the cradle to the grave. I believe that the welfare state mentality is foreign to Australians. It is a false, vicious and degrading philosophy. It should be rejected, and we reject it. 
I refer quickly to one or two specific items in the Budget. We heard  Senator Melzer  trying to justify the increased postal charges. What  Senator Melzer  did not acknowledge was the fact that the increased postal and telecommunications charges will be fuel for further inflation, as will the indirect tax on petrol which will be felt throughout the economy. The indirect taxes announced by the Government are inflationary in themselves. We welcome the income tax deductions but by January, because of the increase in inflation- inflation will be helped along to some extent by the indirect taxes- they will be nothing but an illusion and will be recognised as a 2-card trick. Unquestionably the petrol tax will affect costs throughout the community. They will be felt most in the less developed areas of Australia. I see  Senator Poyser  nodding his head. I presume that he is doing so in approval. 
A further factor which has been a substantial element in the sorry record of this Government has been industrial turmoil. It will be recalled that in 1 972  Mr Whitlam  and his cohorts stood up and said: 'We are the people who can bring industrial peace. We are the only people who understand the worker. We are the only people who understand the unions, and they trust us'. What has been the Government's record in this field? It has been a most sorry record. Mainly because of its policies, since it came to office, we have had nothing but industrial turmoil. Another comparison has been made in the April-May issue of the publication  Fact's  of the Institute of Public Affairs from which I quoted earlier. We have the heading 'A Tragic Record'. That publication printed the results of a survey of the major industrial countries conducted by the London  Economist.  Each country was classified according to the prospect of industrial unrest in 1975. The classifications go from great through good, fair, poor and down to grim and appalling. Australia's ranking on that scale was among the worst. Finland was ranked as fair; Italy as appalling; Canada as grim; Australia as grim; the United Kingdom, which has a Labor government, as grim; New Zealand, which admittedly has a Labor Government but a more responsible one, as fair; and so on. The only countries which were ranked as being grim were Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. That is the record of a Government which claimed that it and it alone could bring industrial peace. 
The statistics for 1974 show that 6.3 million working days were lost in Australia in 1974. The previous highest number was 4.7 million in 1917. The only other fact I can mention is that the total loss of wages in Australia in 1974, through industrial unrest, was $ 128m. That is the record of this Government which boasted - 
No such luck yet. It boasted that it could bring about industrial peace in Australia. Its record is, to say the least, a sorry one. I turn now to one of the most tragic results of this Government's policies, that is the plight of the small businessman. The importance of the small businessman has not always been appreciated not only by this Government but also by other governments. Official statistics indicate that 95 per cent of factories, retail stores, wholesale businesses and service enterprises are small. Big business is therefore heavily dependent on small business supplies, contractors and so on. Everyone, including governments, has an interest in the survival of small business. Today the small business community has difficulty in meeting commitments and in maintaining viability. Small businesses are able to live with a steady inflation rate of between 3 per cent and 4 per cent with growth conditions applying in the economy, but they cannot live with an inflation rate of around 17 per cent or 20 per cent when there is an almost nil growth rate. 
I am just taking the present figure of 17 per cent. I will settle for 17 per cent. The expectation is that it will be 20 per cent or higher before long, but I will settle for the figure of 1 7 per cent. That is good enough. Surveys indicate that between 16 per cent and 17 per cent of small businesses are not achieving satisfactory results and indeed are financially vulnerable. Indeed, it is reported that some 3000 of them will have to close in the very near future. 
It was a survey. It might be guesswork, but there are plenty of indications on those lines. If  Senator Cavanagh  would like to climb down from his ivory tower and get around the country and talk to small businessmen I am quite sure that he would realise the truth of that statement, because the indications are that under these pressures more and more small businessmen have decided that the struggle is just not worthwhile. Australia is losing the expertise and innovative drive of this sector. The Government, in its Budget and in its policies, has shown no acknowledgment or appreciation of this problem. In any other developed country- indeed, in the less developed countries- this situation would never have been allowed to develop. Recently  Senator Cotton,  on behalf of the Opposition, made a statement in which he outlined in general terms the type of attitude that we would be taking to restore the confidence and viability of small business men. 
I wish to conclude my remarks by referring to the air navigation charges. Over many years- if  Senator Cotton  were here now he would acknowledge this fact - 
Where are some of the people from that side of the chamber?  Senator Cotton  would acknowledge that when he was the Minister for Civil Aviation I was critical on many occasions of the ever increasing air navigation charges. I have always believed that it is a false policy. It has always been based on the claim that the user should pay for the service, and no one argues that a proportion of the cost should be met by the user. But, interestingly enough, the Airlines Agreement of 1973, in which this 
Government altered the percentage from 10 per cent to 1 5 per cent per annum, states in clause 4: 
For the purpose of more speedily implementing the Commonwealth's policy of full recovery of the cost of facilities properly attributable to civil air transport and with a view to achieving the objective of recovering by the year ending the thirtieth day of June, 1 978, eighty per centum of the annual cost of those facilities- 
The percentage was increased from 10 per cent to 1 5 per cent. It is very interesting to note that no one has ever defined the words 'properly attributable to civil air transport'. I would suggest that more than 20 per cent of the facilities of civil aviation would be more properly attributable to defence. All the aircraft and aircraft facilites are a defence asset and could be used and indeed where necessary have been used for defence purposes. A very considerable proportion of facilities could be defined as being attributable to development. We all know that all the airlines run development services which cannot, do not, and probably never can pay. The airlines make up for the losses incurred on those services on their more profitable routes. 
Not only  Sir Reginald  Ansett 's airline but also Trans- Australia Airlines run such services. Trans-Australia Airlines is in no better position than is  Sir Reginald  Ansett when it comes to that. I suggest that a substantial percentage of civil aviation facilities are attributable to defence and to development. It is high time that the term 'properly attributable to civil air transport' was defined, because I believe that the Government's policy of trying to recover 80 per cent of the cost of those facilities is an absurd one. Aviation in Australia, perhaps more than in most countries in the world, provides an important, if not vital, transport link in outback areas. All the airlines provide an essential service to those areas. To many- this is particularly so in my own State- air travel is not a luxury but an essential means of transportation. As costs increase and as the airlines quite naturally pass on the costs to the user, air travel is going to be denied to more and more people who live in areas in which it is the only possible, successful and satisfactory means of transportation. Air travel is getting beyond the reach of many people, and the Minister's unfortunate statement of some time ago that only silver tails travel by aircraft will indeed soon be a fact. 
The other important factor is that the Government itself is one of the largest users of air travel. It is a case of the dog chasing its own tail; as the cost of air travel increases, so the Government  pays more. I think it is an increasingly crazy policy. It is certainly time that a clear definition was made of costs attributable to defence and development and costs which are properly attributable to civil aviation. Australia wants tourism as one of its major industries and all we are doing by this ever-increasing rise in air fares is pricing ourselves out of the tourist market. I only hope the Government will take note of this policy. It is not a sound economic policy; it is an unsound economic policy. If we want aviation in Australia to continue as a growth sector it is about time we realised that it must not be priced out of the transport market. 
Having said that, I can only express the hope that this Budget does succeed. The Treasurer is in some doubt. We share the doubt, but for the future of Australia one can only hope for its success. I do not believe it will be successful but I express the hope that it will be. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Withers.  My only complaint is that it is couched in too moderate terms. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cavanagh)  adjourned. 
Like  Senator Chaney,  I intend to be very brief. I rise merely because of my previous very close association with the people of Papua New Guinea. Probably for a short time I had a closer association than most people in this Parliament as I served with the Pacific Islands Regiment. There I learnt to appreciate the tremendous loyalty and steadfastness that I experienced in the people with whom I associated. I recall  Senator Greenwood  saying that no one can foretell the future, and no one can. It would be foolish for us today, when considering this rather momentous legislation, to ignore the problems that face the people and Government of Papua New Guinea. I refer to the problem of Bougainville and other problems that may arise. We can only wish them well and hope that the work done by Australia over many years, and the Australians who served so loyally in Papua and New Guinea, will bear fruit. 
Like  Senator Chaney,  I wish to pay a tribute to those Australians, many of whom I knew personally, who served as district commissioners and patrol officers. In the early days of the 1 920s and 1930s they endured great hardship and showed tremendous courage in bringing some semblance of law and order in opening up the Territory of Papua New Guinea. Many of their stories are epics and should be better known today. I think it would be remiss of us in this Parliament if we did not pay tribute to the great sense of responsibility and obligation shown by so many Australians for so long in the service of Papua and New Guinea. I think we should not let that service pass without acknowledgment in this Parliament. 
I agree with much of what was said by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Chaney.  We know there are great problems of national unity. However, there is little we can do now as the responsibility rests with the Government of Papua New Guinea. However, no Australian needs be ashamed of the part Australia and Australians played in Papua and New Guinea. One hopes and trusts that self-government and independence in Papua New Guinea will be successful. If it is, then to a great measure it will be due to those Australians in all walks of life, in the Public Service and elsewhere who served the Territory of Papua New Guinea and the tremendous work they did there. I think this Parliament should pay due tribute to them. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Transport recall the criticism that he and I made of the report of the then Department of Civil Aviation on the aircraft accident at Sydney Airport between a TransAustralia Airlines aircraft and a Canadian Pacific aircraft in which, by a curious distorting and twisting of facts and a complete ignoring of procedures laid down in flight manuals, the major responsibility for the accident was placed on the TAA captain? Has the Minister seen the decision of a Justice of the High Court who placed the major responsibility upon the then Department of Civil Aviation because of the actions of the operator in the control tower? Does the Minister recall that I- and, I believe, he at the same time- advocated that because of the biased nature of this report, air accident investigations should be divorced from the Department and be placed in the hands of an independent authority, as I believe is the case in the United States of America? Will the Minister take up this proposal with the Minister for Transport? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yesterday in reply to a question from  Senator Gietzelt  concerning the execution in Spain of 5 terrorists for murder, the Minister advised that the Government had expressed its concern to the Spanish Ambassador and had associated itself with protests in various countries. I ask the Minister: Is he aware of repeated announcements from Saigon that Vietnamese are being tried by people's courts and summarily executed for theft? Indeed, photographs have appeared in the Press. Has the Government protested to the repressive regime in South Vietnam against this brutal and unjust treatment of its citizens? If the Government has not protested, will it not do so and display its much vaunted even-handedness? 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs in reply to a question I asked on 19 August as to who was exercising real authority in South Vietnam replied that South Vietnam was largely, with some qualifications, administered by military management committees and that no date had been set for the formal assumption of control throughout the country by the People's Revolutionary Government. On 27 August I asked a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate- the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs being absent- and I referred to a reported statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the PRG and the Foreign Minister of North Vietnam had stated that the re-unification of Vietnam had now been accomplished and that the official statement was only a matter of procedure. How does the Minister reconcile his reply of 19 August and the reply to my question on 27 August when the 2 governments- that is the PRG and the Government of North Vietnamcontinue to function separately and when on 19 August the Minister acknowledged that the PRG was not exercising authority in South Vietnam? I further ask: Is membership of the World Health Organisation and of the World Meteorological Organisation by the 2 Vietnams an indication of their separate entities as a government? Is the Palestine Liberation Organisation, which is also recognised by United Nations agencies, also a legitimate government? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports that at the meeting of the non-aligned movement in Lima at which Australia attended as a guest the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the Palestine Liberation Organisation were admitted as members and that the Republic of Korea was refused any status. I ask the Minister: If that report is correct on what basis was a decision made to exclude the Republic of Korea. 
Does the Minister for Labor and Immigration recall saying on the television program  This Day Tonight  on 15 July 1975 that The public knows all that it needs to know about the loans affair ... all that it needs to be told'? Does he adhere to that view, or did the Prime Minister merely tell him all that he needed to know? Is  Mr Connor  just another sacrifice on the altar of the Prime Minister's ego, and is this another attempt to deceive the Australian public on this whole sordid and scandalous affair? 
I direct a question to the Minister representating the Minister for Transport. I refer to clause 11 in Schedule 4 to the Airlines Agreement Act 1952-1973, which I quote in part: 
. the Commonwealth will increase the rate of air navigation charges to international operators by the same percentage as that applied from time to time in respect of the operations of the Commission and the Operating Company. 
In view of answers given to questions asked in Estimates Committee E by departmental officers and reports that the Government is considering exempting international airlines from the recent charges, will the Minister give an assurance that the Government will not act illegally and that it intends to honour its obligations under the legislation? 
I direct a question to the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the following reported statement by the Prime Minister that was published in the  West Australian  of 18 October and, no doubt, other newspapers in Australia: 
But the Opposition Senators would have to bite the bullet of being the first Senate in Australian history - 
Rather dramatically-  three-quarters of a century, which has rejected a money Bill. 
As the Labor Opposition in 1970- indeed, 3 times between 1967 and 1970- rejected a tax or money Bill in the Senate, is the Prime Minister telling the truth? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Yesterday  Senator Rae  and I asked questions of the Leader of the Government concerning statements by the Prime Minister that the Senate had never rejected a money Bill. The Leader of the Government then wanted to refresh his memory. I now ask whether he has refreshed his memory by referring to  Hansard  of 18 June 1970, pages 2681 and 2682, which clearly show that the then Labor Opposition with the support of the Democratic Labor Party defeated a money Bill. I therefore ask: Is the Prime Minister simply not telling the truth? 
As the Leader of the Government in the Senate has now acknowledged that the Senate has in the past rejected money Bills, will he advise the Prime Minister of this truth and ask the Prime Minister to stop misleading the Parliament and the people? 

 -Mr President, as I listened to  Senator Gietzelt  I was reminded of the saying that hope springs eternal in the human breast. I am not sure now to whom that is to be attributed. Certainly one thing about  Senator Gietzelt  is that he must be a great optimist. I was rather amazed at his extraordinary assertion- I think I am quoting him correctly, but if I am not he will correct me- that the Opposition produced  Mr Khemlani  earlier this year. I thought that  Mr Khemlani  was produced in some murky manner from somebody in South 
Australia through  Mr Cameron  to  Mr Connor.  But now we are told that we produced the character. I can imagine the anxiety of the Australian Labor Party to get rid of  Mr Khemlani.  We were also told by  Senator James  McClelland in this chamber and by  Mr Connor  that  Mr Khemlani's  credentials had been checked and that he was a man of great integrity and probity. There seems to be a somewhat different story now as they seek to unload him. They cannot unload him quickly enough.  Senator Gietzelt  said that Opposition senators reminded him of pirates attempting to seize the ship of state. I find that rather remarkable because the ship of state has already foundered after a couple of years of this Government, and I do not think that we wish to seize a foundering ship. 
Thank you very much,  Senator Missen.  This debate has given us a further opportunity to continue to expose the deceit, the impropriety, the incompetence and the lack of integrity of this Government. Its incompetence is almost unbelievable. This applies particularly to economic affairs. Of course, this is one of the major issues which concern us today. In 1 972 this Government inherited a stable economy- one of the most stable economies in the developed world. In a matter of months, and only months, the Government converted this to one of the most unstable economies in the developed world. This was done by its own reckless policies. 
We know that the Government continually sought to lead us to believe that the economic problems facing Australia were imported from overseas. We remember time and again that this was given as the excuse. The report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which has been quoted and which I quoted during the Budget debate put paid to this nonsense once and for all. The OECD report clearly sheeted home the responsibility for Australia's economic problems, its devastating inflation rate- about the second highest in the developed world- its ever-increasing unemployment rate, its high interest rates and its internal domestic policies. Of all the countries in the developed world we were most isolated from events outside. We were almost completely isolated from the energy crisis which had such a devastating effect upon the economies not only of the developed countries but also of many of the developing countries, lt is interesting to note that, because of sound economic policies, the rate of inflation in Japan, which was among the countries which were most affected by the energy crisis, is decreasing rapidly. The last figures that I saw showed that the rate was down to about 10 per cent, and it is expected to be a single figure rate before the end of this year. 
The last figures that I saw showed that the annual rate is down to about 10 per cent, and it is expected to be a single figure rate by the end of this year. This has happened because of the sound and tough economic policies which were followed by the Japanese Government. The same thing has happened with the German economy. Here again, the German economy recovered remarkably quickly while we are still wallowing in an economic crisis caused by the lack of policies of this Government. 
This is one of the lame and weakest excuses that honourable senators opposite can possibly make. They are trying to grasp at any straw as they sink, and the straw upon which they grasp is the frustration of the Senate. Really  Senator McLaren  should try to do better than that. 
Debate interrupted. 
Last Thursday evening I referred to the gross and monumental incompetence of the Government in relation to its economic and financial policies and said that in 1972 the Government inherited a stable economy which within a matter of months it turned from an area of financial and economic stability to one of economic instability. I referred also to the oftrepeated claims of members of the Government that our economic problems were imported. I referred to the Organisation for Economic and Co-operation Development report of July 1975 which laid the blame clearly upon the Government. This was the first matter to which I referred in justification of the stand being taken by the Opposition at this moment. The next major issue to which I refer and for which the Government quite palpably stands condemned is the Government's lack of integrity and its deceit. Despite the boast of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of 'open government', it surely must be the most secretive government in Australia's history. It has attempted, by this secretiveness, to conceal the deceit, the illegality and possibly the criminal conspiracy, if not corruption, involved in the infamous and scandalous loans affair. Nothing illustrates more the deceit and dishonesty of the Government than this issue. The Prime Minister has often claimed that no one has made any charges against the Government. The Prime Minister, like Nelson, obviously turns a blind eye, because allegations of illegality, of deceit, indeed of criminal conspiracy have been made repeatedly. The Government has given no answer to these allegations. The Prime Minister has given no answer to these allegations but has chosen to ignore them. 
We have the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd affair. We have the Gair affair. I could go on almost  ad infinitum.  All these matters seriously involve the integrity and honesty of the Government. It is without doubt a discredited government led by a discredited Prime Minister who conceals the lack of integrity and incompetence of the Government by irrationality and by smart aleck comments. He has turned the House of Representatives into a comedy theatre, and this is no answer to the serious charges being made against the Government. The Prime Minister is a man who repeatedly denies the truth, no doubt in a belief that if a lie is told often enough and repeated often enough, someone will believe it. One wonders whether he can even lie straight in bed. 
One of the untruths that the Prime Minister repeats- I regret to say that  Senator Gietzelt  repeated it last Thursday, and I will come to that in a moment- is that the Senate has not rejected a money Bill in 75 years. I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  on Tuesday, 21 October, whether it was a fact that in 1967, 1968 and 1970 the Senate had rejected money Bills. I refer to the Post and Telegraphs Rates Bill in 1967, the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill in 1968 and the States Grants (Receipts Duty) Bill in 1970. 
Do not try to change the subject. You said in the Senate on Thursday as reported at page 1 646 of  Hansard: 
The plain facts are- the Opposition must face up to thisthat never in 75 years has the Senate exercised its power to reject a money Bill. 
You repeated the untruth that the Prime Minister has been making time and again. To his credit,  Senator Wriedt,  in reply to a question by me on Wednesday, 22 October, acknowledged the rejection of a money Bill by the Senate on 1 8 June 1970.I will remind you if you wish to check it. I checked to see whether you were here, and you were not. If you had been you would have voted with the then Opposition. The divisions appear at pages 2681 and 2682 of  Hansard.  With the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party the Opposition rejected a money Bill. 
Rejected it and defeated it.  Senator Georges,  from memory, voted with the Opposition to defeat it. It is time this untruth was laid to rest once and for all. 
That is another matter. It was not a major Bill as the Appropriation Bills are. Let us come to this matter, because the Prime Minister has some very strong views about resignation as a result of the defeat of money Bills too. I repeat what the Prime Minister had to say about this. The fact is that money Bills have been rejected, and it is time this untruth was laid to rest. I charge the Prime Minister with repeatedly telling untruths to deceive and mislead the Parliament and to deceive and mislead the public. 
This fact has now been acknowledged by the Government. I do not charge  Senator Gietzelt  with being dishonest, but he repeated the statement last Thursday. It is an untrue statement. The Prime Minister seems to repeat these untruths with great conviction and with all the assurance of long practice. Recently, in fact last week, at his Curtin lecture- I am indebted to  Senator Chaney  for drawing attention to further untruths by the Prime Minister- he made an attack on the Senate. I quote from  Senator Chaney  's speech at page 1643 of  Hansard.  The Prime Minister said: 
. it's worth looking more closely at this Opposition tactic of referring Bills to Senate committees. They do it all the time. It is a familiar and characteristic method of Liberal obstruction. They will neither vote for a Bill nor vote against it. 
He cited 2 Bills- the National Compensation Bill and the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill.  Senator Chaney  dealt at length with both these Bills and referred to the excellent work, bipartisan work, that is done by Senate committees. I refer to the Family Law Bill which also was referred, to a Senate committee and in respect of which the then Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  acknowledged the good work done. But the Prime Minister has completely misrepresented and distorted the truth. 
My memory goes back to the days when the Senate was establishing these committees. I recall very well  Senator Murphy  arguing- very rightly and correctly arguing- that one of the purposes of these committees was to consider complex legislation and to advise the Parliament. In those days  Senator Murphy  acknowledged the value of those committees to consider complex legislation. I pay tribute to the capable chairmanship of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange by  Senator Georges  and 
I am quite sure that that Committee will present a report that will improve greatly the corporations and securities legislation. That, of course, is surely one of the responsibilities of the Senate. I say again, this is a typical example of the distortions and misrepresentations of the Prime Minister. It is an indication of the Prime Minister's lack of integrity and of honesty and of his attempts to deceive and mislead the Parliament and the people of Australia. 
I know that the matter of the powers of the Senate to reject money Bills and the constitutional propriety of the Senate's present action has been dealt with  ad nauseam.  I think these powers of the Senate could almost be compared with the safety valve of a steam engine. A steam engine might last for 75 years and the safety valve never be required. 
That is a very interesting point. I am talking about the steam engine which is examined well by an inspector so that the safety valve is never required for the life of the engine; but it is ensured that the safety valve is there to prevent an explosive force being built up. The power of the Senate is the same. It is not to be used without discretion, as  Senator Murphy  said. It is to be used with discretion. The power is there and I think there is an analogy between this power of the Senate and the safety valve on a steam engine. When a government, as in this case, exceeds its powers and its authority then these powers of the Senate are and were meant by the constitutional fathers to be a safeguard. If one reads the reports of the constitutional convention one sees that 20 per cent or so of the time of the proceedings of the convention was taken up with a discussion of the powers of the Senate. Those powers were given to the Senate deliberately to be used if the need should arise. They were not to be used capriciously but only if the need arose. Surely the need exists today. The Senate is exercising its powers properly and constitutionally. I regret that  Senator Gietzelt  made the comment, in the speech  I  referred to earlier, that the Senate was acting against tradition. He is at conflict. By way of interjection he said that the Senate was breaking the Constitution. Those were his words. 
We have the words of the previous AttorneyGeneral, the former  Senator Murphy,  which have been quoted very often in this chamber. We have also the words of the Prime Minister in 1 970. 1 do not wish to quote  Senator Murphy  in full but we know his words when he upheld without equivocation the powers of the Senate which, he said, were without limit. I think it is important that on this matter of tradition referred to by  Senator Gietzelt, Senator Murphy  is reported in  Hansard  of 1 8 June 1 970 at page 2647 as having said, referring to the States receipts duties legislation: 
. the Opposition will oppose these measures. 
In doing this the Opposition is pursuing a tradition which is well established, but in view of some doubt recently cast on it in this chamber, perhaps I should restate the position.  lt is a great pity that the then  Senator Murphy  is not here today to restate the position because he then went on to restate it, as I said, in clear and unequivocal terms. But what of the Prime Minister, who charges the Senate with acting improperly and unconstitutionally? The Prime Minister suddenly finds a great virtue in the Senate's being stripped of its powers with respect to money Bills but in 1970 the Prime Minister took an entirely different view. He is reported at page 349 1 of House of Representatives  Hansard  for 1 2 June 1 970 as having said: 
This Bill and its associated Bills will be rejected by the Parliament. 
We all know what the Prime Minister had to say about the Budget of the same year. The Prime Minister went on record as saying, when the Gorton Government had been in office for only 10 months- I repeat this to bring home the untruthfulness and the deceit of the Prime Minister in his actions today- the following: 
Let us take this Budget and the Government which produced it to the people themselves. The Parliament has already voted Supply to the end of November. By that time, there can be an election for both Houses. An election therefore would cause no disruption. The only thing that will cause disruption is the continuance of this Government. 
If we bring this up to the present day, all I can say is 'Hear, hear'. The Prime Minister is reported as having said also: 
Let me make it clear at the outset that our opposition to this Budget is no mere formality. 
When the Prime Minister and  Senator Gietzelt  talk of constitutional powers and of tradition, it is important to remember that the Prime Minister is recorded as having said: 
We all know that in British Parliaments ... the tradition is that if a money Bill is defeated ... the Government goes to the people to seek their endorsement of its policies. 
We know that in April last year with the mere threat of deferment of the Appropriation Bills the Prime Minister rushed out of this place, jumped into his car and rushed up to Government 
House in accordance with the tradition he supported in 1970. One wonders today why the sudden change in the Prime Minister's attitude. He condemns himself out of his own mouth. One could argue that the attitude of the Senate is a matter of political judgment and I agree with that.  Senator Wriedt  had the honesty to say it is a matter of political judgment. Of course it is. But that is different from arguing that it is unconstitutional, and that it is against tradition. That is how the Prime Minister is arguing today and he is wrong. The Prime Minister is on record - 
That is  Senator Hall's  opinion but that is a matter of political judgment.  I  do not rely on  Senator Hall's  political judgment because he does not have a very good track record of political judgment. So that is better left alone. I do not argue on that issue and I think  Senator Hall  ought to keep very quiet about it. But he is entitled to his opinion and I am entitled to mine. I am amazed at the effrontery of the Government in challenging the powers of the Senate in view of the Government's track record in the past. This must be the most cynical and hypocritical exercise in history.  Senator James  McClelland, in his attitude of righteous indignation the other day, quoted some constitutional authorities. They were selective and he is entitled to be selective in this respect if he wishes to be. But the views of the former  Senator Murphy,  whose standards of constitutional law are so high that the Prime Minister saw fit to elevate him to the High Court, were made quite clear. He is in very good company. Before dealing with the good company that  Senator Murphy  is now in, I mention that it always amuses me that in 1970, the then Opposition defeated money Bills and it voted against the third reading of an Appropriation Bill.  Senator Chaney  mentioned some of the distinguished members of the then Opposition who on 3 November- if my memory serves me correctly- attempted to defeat an Appropriation Bill in pursuance of the present Prime Minister's statement that the Budget would be defeated. They included  Senator Wriedt,  who has a wry smile on his face. They tried to defeat it. No one could argue that they did not have the numbers. No one can tell me that if the Democratic Labor Party had supported them they would not have gone ahead and defeated the Appropriation Bills in 1970. 1 do not remember any sense of outrage from members of the Australian Labor Party. There were no challenges then to the power of the Senate and there was no irresponsible talk about unwritten conventions. 
Do not tell me you were not fair dinkum, senator. I believe better of you. No unwritten conventions were spoken about which the apologists for the Government today are falling back upon. There has never been a convention. There has never been an unwritten convention. There certainly was not a convention acknowledged by the present Government in 1 970. This argument that there is a written or unwritten convention is nothing more than a pack of garbage. I do not believe the Prime Minister meant other than what he said in 1970. No smart aleck words of his can conceal the fact that he meant what he said. There are other authorities.  Senator Gietzelt,  by way of interjection last week, said that the Senate was breaching the Constitution. He was not in the Senate in 1970. So we cannot charge him with double standards as we can charge others. 
I fall back now upon the decision by the High Court the other day to uphold the Petroleum and Minerals Authority.  Senator Chaney  quotes 2 Justices of the High Court,  Mr Justice  Stephen and  Mr Justice  Gibbs, as upholding the power of the Senate. We now have the authority of  Mr Justice  Mason and the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Four Justices of the High Court unequivocally stated that the Senate's powers were not being misused and that the Senate did have the power to reject. No doubt  Mr Justice  Murphy, in view of his past record, would support that view. That makes 5 justices of the High Court who would support that view. What utter nonsense it is for the Government and  Senator Gietzelt  to talk about breaking the Constitution when the High Court- the highest constitutional authority in the land- has upheld the Senate's powers. 1 need refer to no more than that. I do not need to refer to other constitutional authorities such as Professor Lane and others who have upheld the powers of the Senate. 
It is sheer hypocrisy for the Government to claim now that the Senate is acting illegally and unconstitutionally. What is at stake is quite clear. It is the integrity and competence of the Government. The Government has proved incompetent in economic affairs and government generally. Indeed, the Government's incompetence is incredible. It has shown a lack of honesty and integrity. Its gaggle of funny Ministers are all going their own way, all making statements and all spending recklessly in pursuit of pet schemes without any control from the top. The Government has provided jobs for the boys - 
And girls. I am sorry; this is International Women's Year and I should have included girls. Indeed, its catalogue of political dishonesty and stupidity makes sad reading. It has been argued, of course, that the Government was elected for a 3-year term. That also is garbage. A government is elected and should remain in office only so long as it has the confidence of the Parliament. 
Yes. A government is not elected for a 3-year term. The 3-year term is provided as a maximum term. Indeed, a Prime Minister or a Premier is entitled to go to the Governor-General to ask for a dissolution of the Parliament at any time he thinks it could be of political advantage to him. Only a couple of months ago the Premier of South Australiaafter only 2 years of government- decided that the portents were favourable and he sought a dissolution of the Parliament. 
Will you deny that? He had a majority; that is all right. It is his right to go to the people. I am saying that it is all nonsense and garbage to say that a government must run a 3-year term. A government can exist only when it has the confidence of the Parliament. When it ceases to have the confidence of the Parliament then it must go to the people. I am indebted to Professor Gordon Reid, Professor of Politics at the University of Western Australia.  Senator Chaney  quoted something from an address that Professor Reid gave the other day when he defended the Senate's powers. He was talking about the people and he said: 
We believe that when we have an election we determine and elect a government for 3 years- but this is not provided for in the Constitution. All we do is elect 125 members of the House of Representatives for 3 years, with the provision that Parliament may be dissolved by the Governor-General. 
Yes, at the whim of the Opposition as you tried it in 1970. Now get your facts straight and be honest enough to admit that if the Parliament had been dissolved in 1970 it would have been at the whim of the then Opposition. The Opposition has its rights in the Parliament. 
I will vote on it. Do not worry. The Government is well aware of the reason why certain legislation has not been passed. We do not trust the Prime Minister. The issue is quite clear. The Parliament is not elected for 3 years, it can be dissolved at any time by the GovernorGeneral on the advice of the Prime Minister. It is elected and can remain in office only so long as it has the confidence of the Parliament. When it has not the confidence of the Parliament and the Senate is - 
Cock-a-doodle-doo.  Senator McLaren  cackles the whole time. The Government does not have the confidence of the Parliament, because the Senate is a part of the Parliament. Honourable senators opposite recognised this in 1 970. The third issue at stake is the right of the Parliament to control the Executive. No one who believes in Parliament and the rights of Parliament can but deplore the Prime Minister's arrogant attempt to defy the Parliament and to defy the Constitution. He defies what he has said is British tradition- that when a government is defeated on a money Bill then it should resign. The Prime Minster is defying that- the Constitution to which he himself has adhered and which he has laid down as being correct. 
The Prime Minister is now engaged in hysterical and irrational threats to smash the Senate. This indicates his frustrations that there should be any parliamentary control over his actions. I know that from reports sometimes Caucus also has been frustrated at its lack of control over the Prime Minister who completely ignores Caucus and goes his own way. He might get away with it in Caucus but he cannot get away with it in the Parliament. It indicates, despite his high sounding words, a contempt for the Parliament. This is exemplified, of course, by the illegal attempt to raise loans without the knowledge of Parliament. His attempt in this loans affair to subvert the Constitution shows the Prime Minister to be a man without principle. 
The supremacy of Parliament must remain. We are indebted to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for laying clearly on the line last week the necessity for the supremacy of Parliament to be upheld. The Prime Minister and the Government are attempting to conceal these facts behind a mass of false and misleading information from a propaganda machine, very reminiscent of Goebbels. The same lies and distortions which were poured out by Goebbels in his vicious and wicked propaganda machine are being repeated here. The sooner this is understood, the better. I just make one more reference to misleading information. I refer to the Minister for Defence,  Mr Morrison,  who has apparently caught the 
Prime Minister's disease.  Dr Millar,  who prepared the report on cadets, had cause the other day to reprimand  Mr Morrison  for taking his report out of context and using selective quotes.  Dr Millar's  comments were reported as follows: 
. the Government had used selected extracts of the committee's report to justify abolishing the movement . . . 'I was concerned that the Government should selectively use half sentences here and there to justify its actions', he said. 
This is another example of deceit by the Government and by Ministers of the Government. Obviously the disease is contagious. This is the Government with the mostest. It is the most incompetent, the most dishonest, the most deceitful, the most corrupt and the most evasive in Australia's history. It is lacking in integrity and propriety. The private briefing that  Mr Hayden  recently gave to  Mr Hawke  is an example of this. We have Ministers and ex-Ministers accusing the Prime Minister and one another of disloyalty. We have the Prime Minister accusing exMinisters, including his past deputies, of disloyalty. Such a government rightly forfeits the confidence of the Parliament and of the people. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of considerable public speculation about the recent departure of the Embassy of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea from Canberra, will the Minister inform the Senate of the reasons for the Embassy's removal and the attitude to it of the Australian Government? Has he received any reports that the embassy has left unpaid debts behind in Canberra? If he has, what action is being taken to ensure that Australians are not financially disadvantaged by the departure of the North Korean diplomats? 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs advise the Senate the present diplomatic position between Australia and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea following the expulsion of Australian diplomats? Has the Minister any further information concerning any unpaid debts left behind by the departed diplomats of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that next month the Royal Air Force will hand over control of the air base on the Maldive Islands to an independent government. Is he aware also that Gan occupies an important strategic position in the Indian Ocean? Is the Government aware of any steps to ensure that this important air base does not fall into hostile hands? 
Let me first of all congratulate the  President,  in his absence, on his election to his high office. I have, of course, like many honourable senators on this side of the House, been associated with  Senator Laucke  for many years. We know his courtesy, his politeness and his fairness. I am sure that he will bring those qualities to bear in his new high office. I also congratulate you,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  on your appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. I was a member of the Senate when you were  Chairman  of Committees previously and I know your great knowledge of the Standing Orders, your strictness in enforcing the Standing Orders and also your impartiality. We have all suffered at your hands. 
I think it is a great pity that members of the Opposition are living on past prejudices and new hates. They have all gone to the wailing wall. I do not mind if they stay there. As long as they are there they will produce no new thoughts and no new policies. It is a great pity that my good friend  Senator Bishop-  I know he is a good friend- says that democracy is being shattered and all this sort of nonsense. Members of the Opposition conveniently forget that in 1970 their own leader advocating that the Senate should defeat an Appropriation Bill. In the best Westminster tradition he said that the government should then go to the people. We all remember that. It is on record. Their then leader in this place, now  Mr Justice  Murphy, supported the unlimited powers of the Senate to defeat money Bills and referred to 168 occasions I think it was since 1952 when the Opposition had attempted to defeat money Bills and to 4 occasions when the Opposition had succeeded in defeating money Bills including Appropriation Bills. 
I am reminded of a statement by a great Labor leader-not like the sort of fellows we have here- Lord Attlee. He was asked some years ago why he, as a Socialist, supported the monarchy. He said: 'Well, the monarch is a sort of referee. He does not often have to blow the whistle but when the politicians get into an awful mess he blows the whistle and dissolves the Parliament and sends the government to an election to let the people decide'. That is the view of Lord Attlee, a great Labor leader, and of course a far greater Labor leader than we have experienced in recent times in this country. I do not intend to follow the meanderings of the Opposition. I join with my colleagues in congratulating the mover and seconder of the Address-in-Reply on their speeches. We know that it is a traumatic experience for new senators to rise so soon in their places to speak. The honourable senators who spoke tonight I believe acquitted themselves admirably, and I know that we can look forward to many contributions from them. I also congratulate those other new senators who tonight made their maiden speeches. They showed us that we have in this place new quality to replace that of some of our former colleagues. 
Tonight I intend to take this opportunity to discuss the controversy over the Indian Ocean- a controversy which has been aroused recently by emotional, extravagant and somewhat naive comments from the so-called Opposition spokesman on defence,  Mr Beazley.  He showed that he was ill informed, so ill informed that his comments could have had only one purpose- to arouse fears and emotions, particularly concerning the development in Western Australia of the new naval facility, HMAS  Stirling.  He was acting also as an apologist for Russia. I recall, and I know that you recall,  Mr Deputy President,  a very great member of the Labor Party in this place, the former  Senator Dame  Dorothy Tangney, who over many years advocated the establishment of a naval facility or base, as I think she termed it, at Cockburn Sound. I believe that the eventual decision to establish that facility was due in no small way to her continued advocacy over many years. It is a great pity that a fellow West Australian should not have followed the example that she set and her realisation and understanding of the need for such a facility on the West Australian coast. I suppose it could be said that the statements made by  Mr Beazley  are further proof of the fact that the Labor Party still lives in a world of unreality as far as the international situation is concerned. It continues to speak of detente. As far as the Russians are concerned, detente, as  Dr Kissinger  is now acknowledging, is a policy of coldly national self-interest and that is all it is. 
No, he is not a socialist, thank goodness; but the socialists in this country have not yet realised that. When  Senator Mulvihill  recognises and acknowledges that what  Dr Kissinger  is saying is correct, I will accept that he is at last showing some degree of reality. The Opposition prefers to ignore the signs and hope that they will just fade away. The Indian Ocean, of course, is a matter of great concern to Western Australia. Well over 2000 miles of its coastline are washed by the Indian Ocean and a great deal of the trade from Western Australia, particularly the mineral trade, passes through that ocean. Many of us grew up in the period of some 150 years during which the Indian Ocean was considered to be a British lake. That position was shattered by the Japanese in 1942 and was restored temporarily after the war. We all know that in about 1968 the British decided, for reasons which we understand, that they could no longer maintain their presence in this area. At about that time, or perhaps a year or two later, as some older members of the Senate will recall, the Indian Ocean was the subject of an inquiry by a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. I was the  chairman  of that inquiry and eventually a report was produced. I might add that that report is still referred to in many countries and is still quoted in many documents as being one of the most authoritative reports on the Indian Ocean ever issued. 
We have heard recently about a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean, a concept which has been supported wholeheartedly by the Labor Party. It is a wonderful concept. We all agree with the concept, but one well known commentator recently described  Mr Whitlam  's zone of peace as a zone of peace which never was; it appears now as nothing more than trendy rhetoric built on vain hope. I think that that is not a bad description. If we face the simple facts of life, the Russians are in the Indian Ocean and they have no intention of leaving. Indeed, in its report, which was published in 1971, our Committee dealt with the question of the Indian Ocean and its importance to the major powers of the world. In section 98, at page 32 of the report, it states: 
In conclusion, the Indian Ocean region has always been an area of some great power interest and attraction but until the 1950s and early 1960s it was essentially a colonial interest of colonial powers and to this extent any influence was generally confined to related interests. With the march towards independence and the consequential opportunities of involvement of the great powers, there has been an extension of interest and participation especially by Russia, the P.R.C., the United States and Japan.  1 digress here to say that 90 per cent of Japan's oil requirements pass through the Indian Ocean. The report continues: 
It is difficult to foresee a significant slackening of interest by any one of these powers with the result that no matter what the opinions of the countries within the region, they will be unable to prevent the Indian Ocean developing into an area of great power influence and involvement. 
That report was published in 1971 and those words are even truer today than they were then. It is also worth commenting that many of the littoral states have supported the concept of a zone of peace, but many of the nations which support the concept of a zone of peace have provided facilities or bases without which Soviet Russia could not operate in the Indian Ocean. I will come back to that matter later. 
Let me return to the report from which I have already quoted. The Indian Ocean is one of the great sea routes of the world. The Russian interest is based, amongst other things, upon its fishing interests, its oceanographic research and its trade. They are all legitimate interests in the Indian Ocean, as are the interests of other powers. So in recent times the region has been one of big power interest. It is also a major area of struggle between the Soviet Union and China, and today it is becoming an area of increasing struggle between those 2 communist powers. I think the Senate should be reminded that in 1971, referring to  President  Nixon's statement that the period was one of negotiation, Chou En-lai the then Prime Minister of China, commented that the era was still one of armed struggle. According to Chou En-lai it was not an era of negotiation but an era of armed struggle. The present events in Angola, on which I will speak later, and the reaction of China to those events highlight the comment that Chou En-lai made. They further highlight my statement that this is one of the major areas of struggle between the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China and that it is an area of increasing struggle between those 2 communist powers. 
Debate interrupted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, although the question may fall within his own responsibility. I refer to the reported actions of the Philippines Government in placing an embargo against Australian imports as a protest against Australian protectionist policies. Has the Government adopted a global quota system for some classes of textiles? How will this system work? Will it enable developing countries to have easier access to the Australian market? Are textiles an important element in the economies of developing countries? Does the Government support the view that trade is more effective than aid in assisting developing countries? 
Last night I referred to the Indian Ocean as being a major area of conflict between the Soviet Union and China. To move on from there, I point out that the region is neither economically nor socially coherent. It involves important and unstable regions- the Indian subcontinent, the Middle East, South East Asia and Africa. Of course these areas are rich in resources, particularly oil, but other minerals are in abundance also. In many cases these are sought-after minerals. The region of the Indian Ocean is vital to Japan, which obtains 90 per cent of its oil requirements from that region. It is vital to the United States of America and is likely to become more vital as the United States requires greater oil resources. Of course the region is vital to Europe and is of tremendous importance to Australia. It is worth mentioning that some little time ago 40 per cent of Australia's exports and SO per cent of Australia 's imports passed through the Indian Ocean. These are likely to increase. 
We can establish 3 facts: The region is an area of instability; it is an area of great-power interest and competition; and it is a major area of SinoSoviet struggle. We must not blind ourselves to these simple truths even though  Mr Beazley  in his recent comments chose to ignore them. It is interesting to note that historically Russia always has been interested in the Indian Ocean. In Czarist times it dreamed of a road route from Russia through to the Indian Ocean. Following the British withdrawal in 1968 Soviet Russia attained its dream by the use of naval power. Since 1968 Russia has maintained a relatively small but fluctuating presence in the Ocean. We have to bear in mind that vast fishing and oceanographic fleets are in this Ocean and many of these vessels are equipped for naval intelligence. Indeed, they are the eyes and ears of the Soviet Navy in the region. We also need to be reminded that the Soviet merchant fleet is very closely integrated with the Navy, far more so than the fleets of any of the other naval powers, and that provides the Soviet Navy with far greater flexibility. In the past, Russian naval flexibility has been affected by its long lines of communication, either from Vladivostok or from the Baltic, but the opening of the Suez Canal, which will take the largest Russian naval ships, has altered that dramatically. For example, the communication route for their northern fleet has been changed from 1 1 200 miles to 7300 miles. What is more important is that the communication line for the Black Sea fleet, which is a significant proportion of the Russian Navy, has been reduced from 10 400 miles to 3300 miles. So the Soviet Union now has the ability to reinforce its Indian Ocean fleet rapidly if it needs to do so. 
I agree partly with some experts who argue that numbers of ships are somewhat irrelevant; what is more important is the facilities available to support those ships and to support a very much larger fleet. In recent years Russia has obtained greatly increased support facilities, and I will come to that in a moment. One of the major objectives of all naval powers, including Russia, is the ability to influence political events. Throughout history sea power often has been used to achieve political aims without firing a shot, particularly in areas of instability, and I regard the Indian Ocean region as being an area of great instability. The Russians still believe in gunboat diplomacy. It also has to be remembered that it is not how many Russian ships are present but what those ships represent. They represent a modern and rapidly increasing Russian naval capacity. Today Russia has a naval fleet which rivals that of the United States and is in many respects a more modern fleet. The number of ships is immaterial; what is important is what those ships represent and the power that lies behind them. There is no question but that the short term objective of the U.S.S.R. in the Indian Ocean region is the reduction of Western political, economic and military influence, leading eventually to the elimination altogether of Western influence and exclusive Russian hegemony. The ultimate aim of the Kremlin is immutable Soviet paramountcy. One only has to read the statements by Russian admirals and leaders to understand and appreciate that. 
The Soviet has been following a very shrewd policy. Its deployment in the Indian Ocean has always been delicately calculated. It has been large enough to achieve its requirements, large enough to be eye-catching, large enough to raise the spectre of a naval race. The Russians hope it has not been large enough to convince the West that it must respond. But the Soviet's real objective, should the West respond, is to arouse the non-aligned nations to the dangers of a naval race and so create a hostile climate for the United States and European countries, and perhaps even ourselves, if they seek to counter this Russian presence. Apologists for the Rus.sions, such as  Mr Beazley,  ignore these facts. What is more important- and I referred briefly to this a moment ago- is the Russian ability to sustain a much larger presence by the development of major facilities and the growing use of facilities made available by such countries as India, South Yemen- one suspects Iraq at Basra- Mauritius, and Berbera in Somalia. One wonders why in  Mr Beazley  's recent statements on the Indian Ocean he completely ignored drawing our attention to those facts. 
Berbera today is a major naval facility, and that cannot be denied. Recently committees of both the United States Senate and the House of Representatives found that when Anally completed the Berbera facility will represent the most complex naval support facility available to the Soviet anywhere outside the U.S.S.R. In testimony presented to hearings in July 1975 the committee was told by Congressmen who had visited the area that they had noted missile handling and storage facilities, petroleum storage facilities, including a barracks ship moored in the harbour since 1972, dock and port facilities, a suspected naval communication facility, a barracks and trailer area for Soviet personnel ashore, which the visitors were not allowed to enter, and new airfields under construction. There is already an airfield 13 000 feet long which can take the largest transport aircraft which could carry the type of missile that Russia is deploying, a missile with a range of 300 miles. It has been reported that a second airfield of 13 000 feet is being constructed some 60 kilometres from the Kenyan border. When the United States Congressmen were there they asked to be allowed to enter this facility. They were being accompanied by a  Colonel Ahmed  Sulieman, who is a son-in-law of the  President.  He said: 'We asked the Soviets and they said they wanted no Americans inside. They are strictly their installations, built with their money. If it were mine, I would take you in. But I asked and they said "No". ' So we now know that there is a major facility capable of sustaining a large Russian presence. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware of reported statements by the shadow Minister for Defence,  Mr Beazleywhich  must be a sick joke- that the North West Cape Communications Base and Pine Gap have been established for the purpose of guiding nuclear weapons on to Soviet territory? Does not this statement display a reckless disregard for the truth? 
-I give notice of the following contingent motion: 
Contingent upon the reappointment of the legislative and general purposes standing committees, I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the following matter: 
Australia and the Indian Ocean region. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of any trade union ban against the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or Cuba because of their massive military intervention in Angola? Is he aware of any demand by those groups who are vocal in demanding the withdrawal of Indonesian troops from Timor for the withdrawal of Soviet and Cuban military assistance to the Marxist forces of Angola? Did either the Soviet Union or Cuba ever claim that events in Angola threatened their national security? If no bans have been placed on trade or other communications with the Soviet Union or Cuba, is this another example of the double standard of left wing groups who attack so-called expansive aggressive acts by right wing governments but are noticeably silent in relation to aggressive acts by communist governments? 
I did not intend to speak in this debate. I will speak briefly. I would not have spoken but for the not extraordinary but predictable contribution from  Senator Gietzelt.  I notice that in the other place the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  when speaking to the Bill, supported it. He merely referred to two relatively minor differences between the Bill introduced by the present Government and the Bill that he introduced last year. Those differences were largely a matter of semantics. The other Opposition  speaker  in the debate in the other place was  Dr Klugman.  He took a somewhat different view. I appreciate the comments which were made by  Senator Button.  He had some doubt whether the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should be responsible to the Prime Minister or the Attorney-General. On balance, the Leader of the Opposition in the other place believed that the Organisation should be responsible to the Prime Minister.  Dr Klugman  came down quite firmly in favour of the view that ASIO should be responsible to the AttorneyGeneral. Indeed,  Dr Klugman,  as reported at page 286 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 25 February 1975, in his speech on this legislation said: 
I am pleased to hear that control of ASIO is to be transferred back from the Prime Minister to the Attorney-General. 
He proceeded to give his reasons.  Senator Button,  I think it is fair to say, was balanced between the 2 views. He had no specific objection to control being transferred back to the Attorney-General. The Leader of the Opposition in the other place, who was responsible for the legislation which proposed to transfer the control of ASIO back to the Prime Minister, naturally supported that view; but his attitude was very much one in support of the Bill. 
It is predictable that  Senator Gietzelt  should stand up and engage in an attack upon the security organisations of Australia. Equally predictably, he returned to the Central Intelligence Agency. It is a wonderful thing,  Mr Deputy President,  that the CIA is responsible for the downfall of the Whitlam Government and, according to some of  Senator Gietzelt  colleagues- if they are his colleagues- is responsible for the latest scandal involving the Iraqis. 
'Hear, hear!', says the honourable senator of the CIA's activities. But in this chamber we do not hear anything about the most ruthless, most sinister and most violent security organisation in the world, the KGB. Oh, no. It is in the clear. Because the United States of America is a free country, the CIA is under investigation. I do not oppose that action. If the CIA has abused its authority, it should be under investigation and those abuses should be made public. I do not defend the CIA. But is the KGB under investigation in Russia? Oh, no, no! 
We hear now that there is nothing wrong with it. What about Solzhenitsyn? What about the stories coming from the Russians who have escaped from the mental asylums and the brutality of the KGB? We never hear a word about those things. 
'Ermolenko', did the honourable senator say? 
This is all we get. It is so typical. We hear about Chile. We hear about Franco. But we never hear a word about the KGB; we never hear a word about the secret police in China. Never a word is said about them. No, it is the CIA and it is ASIO. They are the only ones in which the Opposition is interested. There is a purpose in this interest. The real aim of the left wing of the Labor Party is to destroy the security organisations that protect Australia. Its aim is to denigrate them. That is the real reason for the attack by  Senator Gietzelt  - 

 - Senator Mulvihill should sit down. He has had his say. That is the real reason. It was predictable. We knew that it would happen tonight. 
1 have no complex.  Senator Gietzelt  has the complex. The complex concerns the security organisations of Australia. It is always connected with the CIA. 
Of course it would. But it is an interesting story. We heard about the operations of the CIA in other countries. But  Senator Gietzelt  did not tell us tonight about the operations of the KGB in Australia. We all know that in the Russian Embassy there are odd fellows who have all sorts of odd titles. It is well known that not only are they watching their own diplomats, whom they do not trust, but also they are engaged in subversion and espionage in Australia. If we look at the Chinese Embassy in Australia we find the greatest mob of about 20 fellows who appear in the  Diplomatic List  as Attache, Attache, Attache'. Wonderful, is it not? What are these people engaged in? Not only are they engaged in watching their own, because they do not trust one another, but also they are engaged in security matters in Australia. I would give great credit to  Senator Gietzelt  if he were opposed to all security and if he attacked not only the Central Intelligence Agency for its operations and ASIO for its operations but also if he extended his net a little bit and attacked the communist countries for their subversive operations and for their security activities. This did not happen. All I am rising to say is that this is another example of the double standards of members of the Australian Labor Party. 
Yes, some.  Senator Button  made a reasonable speech. I think  Senator Mulvihill, Mr Whitlam  and  Dr Klugman  made reasonable speeches. But when we get to members of the left wing of the Party, they cannot resist the temptation to attack and denigrate the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. They attacked it. 

 - Senator Harradine, I know that your knowledge of the Labor Party is supreme. The honourable senator knows from his own experience of the Labor Party's intelligence organisation. I agree it is magnificent. That only proves the point I am making. Tonight we had  Mr Fraser  dragged into the matter.  Mr Anthony  was dragged into it. That was a wonderful story. It was a great smear because  Mr Anthony  was alleged to have let his house to some character who, honourable senators opposite allege, was a CIA agent. So  Mr Anthony  is involved with the CIA! This is the sort of murk which the Labor Party lives in. We heard the wonderful expression 'democratisation'. It is a great communist expression. It is given all sorts of meanings such as the people's democratic republic.  Senator Gietzelt  trotted it out. We have heard it all. One has only to open the North Vietnamese Press today to see the same expressions. 
The whole purpose of  Senator Gietzelt  's speech, unlike that of his colleagues, was to attack and denigrate the security organisation.  His  purpose was to plant in the public mind the suggestion that this was some murky organisation which was in some way connected with the dreadful CIA but not with the KGB and not with the organisation- whatever it is called- in China which puts people in dungeons. Francis James knew all about that; he was put in a dungeon. Let us hear about the KGB from  Senator Gietzelt. 
No, but honourable senators opposite were discussing the CIA. That is absolutely right. That is the whole point. That is why I rose to speak. The attitude of the Labor Party is selective. 
That is true. Thank you,  Senator Wright.  It is a selective attitude. The KGB will never be investigated. Its activities will never come out in public. It will continue its nefarious activities throughout the world. It will put Russians, whose only crime is to make some mild criticism of the government, in lunatic asylums. Will honourable senators protest about that? No, not on your life. 
They will protest about Timor. But they will not protest about Angola; that is sacred. They will protest about Chile. I do not defend what may have gone on in Chile, not in any sense, but the honourable senators do not protest about what happened under the communist government in Chile. No, that is sacred. I rose to draw attention to the double standards and hypocrisy of the left wing of the Labor Party whose whole purpose tonight was to denigratewhatever words they tried to cloak it in- the security organisation of Australia. I think the people of Australia realise what is happening but it has to be brought forward continually to them that the objective of these people is to denigrate our security service and to defend the intelligence organisations of communist countries. 
I bet you did not. 
No, it was not with the honourable senator. 
Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that 2 textile manufacturers, Dowd Associates Pty Ltd and Berlei Hestia Industries Ltd have made a decision to expand, despite a warning by the Department of Manufacturing Industry that protection for this section of the industry was to drop? Will the Government warn these manufacturers that they cannot expect additional protection and warn them also that they should not use the threat of a loss of jobs to bring pressure on the Government for higher protection? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I refer to reported deletions from the program of the Lhamo Tibetan Folk Theatre, which recently performed in Western Australia, and ask: Will the Minister ascertain whether references to the invasion of Tibet by the People's Republic of China were deleted? If deletions were made, were they made upon the instructions of the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust? Why were the deletions made? Who ordered the deletions and why? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I ask: Has the Government considered the Jackson Committee report? If it has, is it the intention of the Government to make a statement as to its attitude to the report to enable the Parliament to debate the controversial recommendations contained in it? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the recent decision by the Trades and Labour Council in Western Australia and the Transport Workers Union to ban the distribution of the  West Australian  newspaper because of editorial criticism of  Mr Whitlam.  I ask the Minister: Is not such action reminiscent of the actions of Hitler's brown shirted  thugs in intimidating newspapers and denying the right of free expression and free opinion? Will the Government make it clear that it accepts the right of newspapers fearlessly to express opinions, regardless of whether one finds such opinions agreeable or disagreeable? What powers does the Government possess to protect newspapers from the activities of  facist-minded  individuals who, like the Nazi thugs of old, wish to deny free expression and free opinion? 

 -Mr President, I ask for leave to amend a notice of motion standing in my name. I have discussed the matter with  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Primmer. 
I welcome this legislation to establish the Australia-Japan Foundation. I would share the concern expressed by  Senator Wriedt  if there were to be any lessening in contact but I do not believe that there will be. I believe, of course, that contact should be on as wide a basis as is possible. Some honourable senators will recall the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence contained in a report on Japan which it released several years ago when it dealt at some length with the widening of contact between Australia and Japan. I quote initially recommendation No. 15 at page 82 of that report. 
The Committee believes that the future stability of Australia-Japan relations must be based on cultural and social factors, as well as the economic relationship. The Committee is strongly of the view that emphasis must be given in the future to the further stimulation of mutual understanding between Australians and the widely differing cultures of Asia. 
The Committee then proceeded to make a series of further recommendations regarding the teaching of languages and social studies at primary school level in Japan and so forth. I mention one recommendation in particular, which concerned the disproportionately high air fares which are impeding travel between Australia and Japan. I note that  Mr Menadue  has referred to this matter at a seminar on Australia-Japan trade relations. In the Committee we were very conscious of the need to broaden our relations at all levels. 
Unquestionably, the .Australia-Japan Foundation would assist in creating a better understanding between our 2 countries. In the past the relations have been mainly economic. We should acknowledge the work of a number of organisations, such as Rotary, the Lions clubs, with their student exchange programs, the AustralianJapan Business Co-operation Committee and the Australia- Japan societies in the various States, all of which have played a significant, if small, role in increasing understanding. Certainly their efforts have assisted in broadening understanding between our 2 countries. Japan is our most important trading partner but it is also an important regional economic power and may become also a very important regional political power. Despite the mutual importance of the 2 nations to each other, Japan is still culturally a strange land. At page 74 of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence it is stated in respect of this matter. 
There is evidence to show that a great deal of mutual goodwill exists at the present time arising largely from satisfactory trading, but goodwill alone is no substitute for understanding and if not nurtured by deeper understanding could wither, particularly if economic circumstances were to change. It cannot be denied that the obstacles to reaching full understanding are great- the two countries are the antithesis of each other in history, geography, language and culture. 
On page 73 of the report- this is significant to the legislation- the Committee said that we cannot, on the scale needed to achieve lasting and personal relationships between the peoples of the 2 countries, do so without substantial participation by governments. Here we have for the first time, except for the Australia-Japan Cultural Agreement, participation by the 2 Governments. Our close economic relations are recent. Our search for diversified markets has coincided with what has become known as the economic miracle in Japan. In fact there was no miracle. Japan's spectacular economic growth was based upon enterprise, hard work, a great sense - 
-Yes. I think 'miracle' is a very unfortunate word,  Senator Button.  I was saying that it was based upon enterprise, hard work and a great sense of national unity and national purpose. The late Prime Minister,  Mr Yoshida,  commented upon this. Those comments are worth noting and they are reported at page 8 of the Committee 's report as follows: 
  Mr Yoshida  summed up these factors when he said: 'It was the diligence, initiative and creative ability of the Japanese people that enabled them to exploit the advantages offered'. 
It was not so much a miracle as the ability of the Japanese people to take advantage of the opportunities offered and to reveal the very strong and, I think, admirable characteristics of the Japanese race. Japan possesses a unique culture. She has been influenced in the past by her close neighbours, China and Korea. Japan has retained most significantly her own distinctive culture. Throughout recent times, whilst not rejecting what is good from Western nations, Japan has retained to a remarkable degree what is good in Japanese culture and society and has blended these 2 influences. The maintenance of traditional Japanese values and social forms is seen as an important source of strength and national unity. Japan has always been a culturally resilient nation. It has not been as open to Western cultural penetration as the less cohesive nations have been. 
Japanese society has been affected by many changes. The traditional family structure has to some extent broken down. Japan was initially a rural society and it has changed from a predominantly rural society in a very short space of time into a modern industrial society. Threequarters of the population of Japan today live in urban areas. This traditional structure has also been broken down by economic growth, higher education, emphasis on individuality and many other factors. Despite these influences which are causing some concern in parts of Japan, that country has maintained its ancient and unique culture which was developed during a long period of isolation from early in the 1 7th century almost up to the Meiji restoration in 1868. During that period, influences upon the Japanese from outside the country were virtually unknown except in the technological field where some influences penetrated. We must understand that the gap between our culture and traditional Japanese culture remains wide. It will require effort and tolerance on both sides to bridge the gap to the mutual advantage of both countries. I think that it is worth quoting what was stated on page 11 of the Committee's report because it highlights the problems: 
To a Western person the Japanese are exceedingly complex and no doubt the Japanese feel the same way about Westerners. 
Then the report quotes the evidence of a witness who had lived for a very long period in Japan. He highlighted the difference in attitudes. He said: 
Japanese will try to give you the answer they think you want ... To their mentality it is not lying. The fact is that as far as possible you do not do anything to hurt another's feelings. What they are trying to do is to give you an answer and keep up your good spirits. They have a saying that foreigners- and 1 am a foreigner in Japan of coursespeak too clearly'. We tend to say what we mean and we say it too bluntly . . . 
I think that that evidence highlights the different attitudes which it is necessary to understand. The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence expressed the belief that the future stability of Australia-Japan relations must be based, as I said previously, on cultural and social factors as well as upon this close economic relationship. There is in Australia an increased interest in the cultures of Asia. Many of our schools and universities are taking a greater interest in teaching not only the languages but also the cultures of the 2 countries. The University of Western Australia has a unique department of Japanese studies within the faculty of economics. The course offered by that department at both the undergraduate and postgraduate level is in the Japanese language and the economics, history and culture of Japan. It is a combined course. It is still the only course in Australia, as far as I know, that combines all these various factors. It encourages the students to go to Japan, to live there and to complete their studies there. There is no doubt that the Australia-Japan Foundation will assist in the extension of this work. 
We must appreciate that Japan, with far greater resources than we possess, probably will be able to do more in this Foundation than we can. Nevertheless it is necessary for the Japanese to travel because they realise that only by increasing their knowledge and the knowledge of outsiders in their unique society and culture can they overcome the reputation- I think probably today not altogether justified- that the Japanese people suffer peninsularity and isolation from the rest of the world. Certainly, in the past that was the reputation that the Japanese had. I think that this Foundation will do a great deal. We have much to learn from the ancient, fascinating and distinctive culture and social life of Japan. The establishment of the AustraliaJapan Foundation will assist both countries to understand and appreciate the value of each other. 
We will be able to gain the full benefit of close economic relations only if we are able to appreciate the great cultural tradition that is the inheritance of the Japanese. I warmly support this Bill because I believe it will be of great mutual benefit to and add to the understanding of our 2 nations. I would hope that we would look to the establishment of similar foundations in the future to increase our understanding and knowledge of other nations in Asia. 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. Will you investigate whether television interviews were conducted with  Mr Neville  Wran, the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales, on the roof of Parliament House last Wednesday? If interviews were conducted, who conducted them and upon whose authority were they conducted? Was the roof of Parliament House used to defeat the instruction that the inverview room in Parliament House may be used only for interviews with Federal parliamentarians? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has the Government made a decision, as reported, to remove preferential tariff status from imports of ceramic sanitary ware from the Philippines? If so, is the reason that the Philippines are now becoming competitive in sanitary ware? Will the Minister define the expression 'becoming competitive'? Is the decision an indication that we regard trade as important to less developed countries so long as they do not compete with Australian industry? Is the Government concerned that trade restrictions of this type, if the report be correct, invite retaliatory action and can affect the diplomatic relations with less developed countries? 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce will recall my question yesterday concerning the import of ceramic sanitary ware from the Philippines. I ask: Has the Minister considered the effect possible retaliatory action would have on Australian exports to the Philippines and other less developed countries? Would not such retaliatory action have serious economic implications including unemployment for Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minster for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Council for Overseas Aid receive a Commonwealth Government Grant; if so, what is the amount of the grant. 
What proportion of the grant is used to assist in the publication of the  Development News Digest. 
I rise to speak on this matter briefly because I had a very long association with the late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge long before he entered the Parliament and long before I entered it. My association with him goes back to 1948 or 1949. 1 have nothing but feelings of disgust at the attack made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  upon the character and the integrity of this man, an attack made without one tittle of evidence to support it. I have been fascinated tonight by the tactics of members of the Opposition. They have attempted to draw red herrings across the path. Not one of them has been prepared to stand in this place and defend or support their Leader in another place, the Leader of the Opposition, because in their hearts they know that his attack was false. I cannot use the words which I would like to use. He made a false and scurrilous attack upon a dead man, a man who cannot defend himself. These are the tactics of a cowardly and despicable man, and his own words condemn him. I was interested to hear  Senator O'Byrne  talk about Prince Bernhard, the Lockheed company, the capitalist system, the scurrilous attacks upon  Mr Connor  and other people, about the Iraqi loan affair and the other loan affair. Those people were here to defend themselves if they could.  Senator O'Byrne  has a short memory. There is nothing like a reformed alcoholic to be pure. I remember when in this place he attacked a Democratic Labor Party senator from Tasmania over housing without one tittle of evidence to support the charge. He can be pure when it suits him to be pure. 
If the honourable senator looks up the  Hansard  record he will find that there was not one tittle of evidence. I merely rose to defend the honour and integrity of a former colleague of mine, a fellow Western Australian, a man who served with great distinction in this Parliament. It is significant that not one member of the Opposition in the Senate is prepared to defend the Leader of the Opposition in another place. Not one of them is prepared to stand and say that he spoke the truth. 
Why are they not prepared to do so? All they talk about is the two-airline policy, the Viscounts and DC6s of 15 or 20 years ago. That is all they can talk about. Why do they not defend their leader? They do not because they all know he is indefensible. He is a scurrilous, disgusting and despicable individual. 
I withdraw. I want to say more so I withdraw. I do not want to embarrass you,  Mr President.  I have said it and I believe it. 
It is all right. I am not worried about what  Senator Mulvihill  thinks. 

You keep quiet. 

 - Mr President, I do not wish to speak at any great length but I want to make my position quite clear.  Mr Whitlam  should put up or shut up. He either produces the evidence or shuts up and apologises. I do not think he has enough character to do either. Members of the Opposition in this place should either put up or shut up. They have the choice. They either defend  Mr Whitlam  and support what he said or, like us, they condemn him for what he said. The issue is clear. This man said in Townsville that a former Minister of this place, a man who has been dead for about 10 years, was a corrupt Minister. What a charge to make! Where was the evidence? There was no evidence to support this vile allegation. I think my colleagues on the Opposition side are decent and honourable men. I respect them. I do not think there is one of them who is prepared to get up tonight and echo the words of their Leader in another place, that a man who served in this Parliament, a man with whom many of them served and knew as I knew him, was a corrupt Minister. I leave it to honourable senators opposite to get up and produce the evidence. They should not just make accusations but should bring forward the evidence that  Senator Paltridge  was a corrupt Minister. Words such as T or 'you' are easy to say. It is easy to say: 'I am corrupt' or 'You are corrupt'. They are easy words to use but what is not easy is to produce evidence. 
You can say what you like about me,  Senator Cavanagh.  If you accuse me of being corrupt, I will say to you: 'Produce the evidence that I am corrupt'. I do not say that you are corrupt. 
You can say it. I will not take exception to it. I will simply say to you: 'Produce the evidence'. If you cannot produce it I will say to you: 'You are a dishonest man'. I would not be worried. I would take no notice of it. Actually, I could not care less so long as my conscience is clear. I say to honourable senators opposite that their Leader in another place has made an allegation in public that a former Leader of the Government in this place, a former Minister of the  Crown  and colleague of some honourable senators in this place was a corrupt man. 
I say again that it is easy to make accusations. But if honourable senators opposite are going to make accusations, let them produce the evidence. Do not say to us: 'Write to Lockheed to get the information'. The Leader of the Opposition must have such evidence. Why does he not produce it? Why does he say that  Senator Paltridge  was corrupt but then say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: 'You write to Lockheed to get the evidence'. That is a funny story, is it not? The Leader of the Opposition must have the evidence. He quoted some fellow from Australian National Airways who is alleged to have made the accusation some 16 or 17 years ago. Why did the Leader of the Opposition wait all that time to make an accusation against  Senator Paltridge?  Who was the man who originally made the accusation? Why does the Leader of the Opposition not name him? We have not heard a word about him. He is some murky figure in the background. This is a simple challenge to honourable senators opposite. I do not believe any of them are prepared to get up and echo the words of their Leader in another place - 
Keep quiet,  Senator Cavanagh.  I do not believe any honourable senators opposite will stand up and say that the late  Senator Paltridge  was a corrupt man. If they are not prepared to do so, they should tell their Leader to put up or shut up. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that no qualified quarantine officer is at present stationed in the north west of Western Australia? If, as claimed by the 
Director of Health in Western Australia, the north-western Kimberley region is a low risk area- whatever that means- and no risk is involved, why was it considered advisable to post a senior quarantine officer at Port Hedland before October of last year where a dispute about the so-called medical condition of the officer formerly stationed at Port Hedland has occurred? 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A, together with the  Hansard  record of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Is the Minister for Education aware that the School of Social Sciences at the Western Australian Institute of Technology recently jointly sponsored a Third World Conference at the Institute? Were any federal education funds supplied to the Institute used to pay any of the costs of the solidarity week conference? If educational funds were used, in what manner were they used and who authorised their use? Were any of the facilities of the Institute used and who authorised their use? Finally, were any administrative staff used to assist in organising the conference and, if so, who authorised their employment for this purpose? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of a reported announcement by  Mr Clunies-Ross  that he intends to introduce his own currency on Cocos Island? As Cocos Island is a territory of Australia would such action contravene any Australian laws? 
by leave- I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the time for the presentation of the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Australia and the Indian Ocean Region be extended and that the Committee now report on or before 30 November 1976. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister seen an article entitled 'Are We a Nation of Bastards 'in a journal called  Meanjin Quarterly  by Professor Manning Clark? If so, did Professor Manning Clark assert that the Governor-General and his beneficiaries can expect little mercy from historians of the people; that we can judge what happens to historians in the people's democracies of today; that historians would not be given the paper to write his defence, let alone the opportunity to publish it; and that the people's historians judge their opponents harshly. In view of the bigoted and fascist views expressed by Professor Manning Clark and the threat to historians of the future, I ask: On what university appointments does Professor Manning Clark sit? How frequently does he act as a higher degree examiner for history theses? Can a guarantee be given that Professor Manning Clark will not use his power to stop other historians from getting paper, to have their pencils broken so that they can not write, and to have them sent to a leftist fascist Gulag Archipelago? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a recent report of a nuclear test conducted by the People's Republic of China and a further report of heavy radioactivity fall-out in the United States following the reported test. I ask the Minister: Has the Government any indication whether the reported test was conducted in the atmosphere or underground? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to the decision by the Government to reject the application by MacRobertson Miller Airline Service to operate charter flights between Port Hedland and Bali on the grounds that the Government believed there would be a call for reciprocal rights to be granted to Indonesia and that a new Qantas Airways Limited service between Perth and Bali would satisfy the demand. I ask whether in fact the Indonesian Government requested reciprocal rights if the application for charter flights between Port Hedland and Bali was granted. Has the Government reason to believe that Indonesia will not seek reciprocal rights because of the new Qantas service between Perth and Bali? Further, does the Government believe that the Perth-Bali service will appeal to the isolated areas of the Pilbara, which are the areas to which it was supposed to appeal? Do people in those areas realise that the Port Hedland-Perth flight is of the same duration as the Port Hedland-Bali flight, a matter of 2 hours? 
I bring up the report from Estimates Committee A together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Government issued a directive to Government departments that the terminology for statistical information relating to China and Taiwan be changed to 'China, excluding Taiwan' and Taiwan, Province of? If it be correct, upon whose direction was this directive issued and upon what basis was the decision made? What countries other than communist countries and Australia recognise Taiwan as a province of China? Does Australia trade directly with any other province of China? If not, why is Taiwan singled out for special treatment? As the Government has proclaimed its belief in the right of selfdetermination for the people of East Timor, does it recognise the right of the people of Taiwan to self-determination? Is it within Australia's right to determine the future of Taiwan? 
I wish to apologise to  Senator Douglas  McClelland for not being here when the debate started. No discourtesy was intended on my part, and as soon as I found that the debate had commenced I came into the chamber. I would like to make a few general comments and one or two in support of what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said. He read the recommendation of Senate Estimates Committee A concerning the use of computers. I think that we should look at that recommendation in connection with the recommendation from Senate Estimates Committee F, as follows: 
The Committee agrees with the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System that the scrutiny function of Estimates Committees could be enhanced and made more effective by providing them with both a full-time function and full-time staff. 
Here, Senate Estimates Committee F was looking at a continual scrutiny by Senate Estimates Committees of government expenditure. I think it is true to say that the members of Estimates Committee A would not oppose such a view. In fact we believe that it is the ultimate objective. Certainly I feel that until such time as the problems of expert staffing and the time involved for honourable senators are solved there has to be an intermediate step. I am sure that these problems will be solved. The intermediate step may be that the Estimates Committee should refer to the legislative and general purpose standing committees specific problems which arise within its deliberations. This happened in 1973 and 1974, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland mentioned, when the question of the ordinary annual services of the government were referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. In due course that Committee considered the reference and reported to the Senate. 
As  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said so clearly and so correctly, Senate Estimates Committee A felt that there should be an examination of the use of computers within the Public Service. It is proper at this time for a Senate standing committee to examine such an important matter. I think that we should pursue this question. It seems to me to be a sort of intermediate step which Senate Estimates Committees should take until such time as the Senate feels that it is in a position to exercise the ultimate function- the constant and continuous supervision of government expenditure. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland also mentioned the conservation of valuable collections. I will say no more on that question because I know that my colleague  Senator Knight,  who has a particular interest in this matter, wishes to say something about it. The other matter to which I wish to refer is the recommendation from Senate Estimates Committee A of last year, that the explanatory notes should be made available at the time of the Budget so that the Estimates Committees would have ample time to consider them, to meet in private session and to indicate to the departments those areas of particular interest to the Committee. We felt that this idea had 2 merits. Firstly, we could expect to receive clearer and better answers to our questions. Secondly, it would be a saving of time and expense. Over the years we have noted that a large number of departmental officers attend Estimates Committee hearings. I do not know what percentage of them answer questions but I suspect that it would be fairly small. 
Many hours were taken up with officers in attendance who probably could have been engaged far better than sitting in the Senate chamber. This did not in any way- and we made this clear- inhibit members of the Committee or members of the Senate in pursuing other matters. I note that Estimates Committee F was rather critical of this procedure. The members seemed to believe that if Estimates committees meeting privately had indicated to departments areas of interest, that would inhibit members pursuing other areas of interest. This was never intended and in fact never happened. In Estimates Committee A members did question in other areas, but we made the point that if we went outside these areas it may well have been that we would not get as full an answer as we would normally get but as long as those answers were provided to the Committee in time, senators could pursue the matters further in Committee of the Whole. But in fact I think our experience was very satisfactory. In our report, in commenting upon the system we stated in paragraph 4: 
While it is recognised that this system may not have operated as fully or as effectively as possible on this first occasion, this Committee holds firmly to the view, expressed in its last report, that the new procedures will greatly improve the Estimates Committee operation. 
I think we made the point very clearly that responsibility for this improvement in effectiveness must be shared by all participating senators and departmental witnesses. If this Committee's recent experience is a reliable guide, it is likely that the new procedure will prove successful. We do not claim that the procedures were 100 per cent effective this time but we believe the experiences we gained and other committees gained will make them more effective next time. But there is no intention- and there should not be any intentionof inhibiting members of the Estimates committees or other senators from pursuing other areas of interest. We believe that the overall effectiveness of this has been proved and that if we continue with this experiment- and it was only an experiment which we found, I think unanimously on Estimates Committee A, was successful; not as successful of course as we would all have hoped, but it was successfulgaining the new experience will make it more successful in the future. 
I do not think there is much more I wish to comment upon except one matter; that is, that we believe that in the attendance of departmental officers there were not enough senior officers present whom we could expect to answer most questions. I think in the case of one department which had some 45 or 50 officers present there was only one first assistant secretary. 
No, he did not turn up. There was only one first assistant secretary. We felt that if departments would send more senior officers we could expect those officers to be able to answer most questions. I think this is desirable not only from the point of view of the Senate but also from the point of view of the departments. We make the point that perhaps next year we will see an improvement in this area. Indeed, I think it would assist Ministers if the most senior officers possible were present. I do not exclude the secretary of the department or at least his  deputy  from being present either. 
Supporting what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said in the areas in which he has commented, and supporting what  Senator Wright  has said tonight and also what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has said, I think it is the objective we must seek and achieve very quickly because whatever side of the Senate we sit on, I think the ultimate objective and the whole purpose of the Parliament is that there must be proper scrutiny and control of government expenditure. Perhaps as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack pointed out we are still groping but we are improving and with more experience I believe that the Estimates committees, with the Public Accounts Committee and with the new Expenditure Committee of the House of Representatives- all of which have different roles as has been pointed out tonight- will enable the Parliament to achive the ultimate, and that is parliamentary control, not executive control, upon government expenditure. 
Despite the rhetoric which may occur from one side of the chamber to the other I do not believe there is any disagreement on the opposite side of the chamber to this ultimate objective. With those few general comments and in support of what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said I conclude my remarks. I believe that we must continue to seek the ultimate and until we have achieved that, if we ever do, this Parliament has not achieved its ultimate function. 
Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce noted the vitriolic and seemingly orchestrated attacks by narrow vested interests on the Industries Assistance Commission and the use of the unemployment weapon as an instrument to undermine the independence of the Commission and even to attempt to prevent the Commission from providing the Government with independent advice? In the face of these attacks I seek from the Minister an assurance that the Government supports the Commission in its objective of providing impartial, independent advice to the Government in an endeavour to ensure a proper allocation of Australian resources and the use of those resources in advantageous areas so that Australian industry should not be isolated from change. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I draw the attention of the Minister to paragraph 8 on page 4 of the Defence statement where Taiwan is referred to as the Territory of Taiwan. I ask: Will the Minister define the term the 'Territory of 
Taiwan'? Is it one of international usage? If not, why is the term being used by Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did the Government reject the application by MacRobertson Miller Airlines to operate charter flights between Port Hedland and Bali on the grounds that the Government believed that there would be a call for reciprocal rights to be granted to Indonesia and that a new Qantas Airways Limited service between Perth and Bali would satisfy the demand. 
Did the Indonesian Government request reciprocal rights if the application for charter flights between Port Hedland and Bali was granted. 
Has the Government reason to believe that Indonesia will not seek reciprocal rights because of the new Qantas service between Perth and Bali. 
Does the Government believe that the Perth-Bali service will appeal to the isolated areas of the Pilbara when the Port Hedland-Perth flight time- is the same as that for the proposed Port Hedland-Bali service. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it the policy of the Department of Transport to develop the Perth Airport terminal as a fun parlour? 
-As a fun parlour. Has the honourable senator heard about it? Is this policy to extend to other airport terminals? Is the Minister aware that 2 Kamikaze slot machines have been installed in the terminal building, one right at the entrance to the domestic airline counters? Will the Minister ask his colleague, the Minister for Transport, to investigate the matter as these machines are causing inconvenience and attracting undesirable elements? 
I refer to some questions that I directed to  Senator 
Carrick. I accept that the answers are beyond his immediate competence. I did refer to the Airline Agreements Act 1 952- 1 973 and the words 'properly attributable to civil aviation' contained in section 4. When will the costs that are properly attributable to civil aviation and properly attributable to other areas be determined? For all I know, there may be some work being done on this aspect at last. My second question was: What is the percentage of recovery at the moment from all charges including fuel charges? I have seen a figure of 87 per cent. I do not know whether that is true. At some future time, I would like to be given that information. 
Over a number of years I have spoken somewhat critically about the legislation coming before this Parliament imposing ever increasing charges upon the airlines. These charges have been imposed by successive governments. I noted that  Senator Keeffe  referred to statements which were made by the present Government when in Opposition and to the present legislation. I must say that at least I have been consistent because I opposed some of these charges when we were previously in government. I think I made a speech opposing increased charges when the Labor Government was in office. Now the full circle has turned and I am again saying that I am rather critical of these charges. 
Let me make my own mind up about that. I am always interested when members of the Australian Labor Party ask: 'Are you going to vote against your own Government?' I have never noticed one member of the Opposition who despite his doubts and so forth has never voted against his Party line. I have, and I will do it again. 
I do not take very kindly when I hear  Senator Walsh  screaming his silly head off. I will be interested to note the day when he votes against his Caucus decision. I have voted against my Government's decisions in the past and perhaps I shall do so again. 
When the honourable senator does that let me hear about it. He should stop screaming his stupid head off. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! 
-I am sorry,  Mr Deputy President.  Words are easy but actions are somewhat harder. I shall draw attention to the Airlines Agreement Act 1952-1973. Section 4 of this Act states'. 
For the purpose of more speedily implementing the Commonwealth's policy of full recovery of the cost of facilities properly attributable to civil air transport- 
I repeat, 'properly attributable to the civil air transport'- and with a view to achieving the objective of recovering by the year ending the thirtieth day of June, 1978 eighty per centum of the annual cost of those facilities- 
Then there is an amendment made by the previous Government increasing the cost of recovery in any one year from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. I note that this year the cost recoverable is 1 5 per cent. But in the 24 years that this Act has been in operation no attempt has been made by successive governments to fulfil the obligations of this Act; that is, to define what is properly attributable to civil aviation and what is properly attributable to defence, development and other purposes. I often wonder why that is so. I do not know what the figures would be. I notice that  Sir Reginald  Ansett in his recent report referred to a figure of 30 per cent which would be properly attributable to-  (Quorum formed.)  I thank  Senator Keeffe  for giving me an audience. I note with interest that  Senator Cotton,  a previous Minister for Civil Aviation is present in the chamber. I think  Senator Cotton  will confirm that when he was the Minister I was somewhat critical of the air navigation legislation. 
Thank you. I would have thought that in the 24 years of operation of this legislation some attempt would have been made by the former Department of Civil Aviation and the now Department of Transport to try to define clearly what is properly attributable to civil aviation and what is properly attributable to defence, development and the other community services provided by airlines. One perhaps is rather suspicious that it is easy to make civil aviation the whipping horse. I suggest that it is time now to act. 
I mentioned before that I noticed that  Sir Reginald  Ansett suggested that perhaps 30 per cent was attributable to defence and these other purposes. That may have been a fairly conservative estimate because there is no question that the cost structure which has been imposed upon the airlines of Australia, and which is reflected in the high fare structure of internal travel in Australia, is amongst the highest in the world. Part of this at least can be attributed to the effect of government charges upon the airlines. After all, it is not the airlines that pay; it is the travelling public. We all accept that those who use the facilities must bear a fair share of the cost of the provision of those facilities. My argument is that it is time that a fair share of those costs was decided upon. I think also that it is time that some sort of cost benefit analysis was made on the effect of these high charges upon Australian internal air travel. 
It is cheaper today to travel from Perth to Singapore and Malaysia for a 10-day holiday that it is to travel from Perth to Sydney. Therefore, more and more Australians are taking advantage of overseas travel rather than travelling within their own country and spending the money within Australia. I do not express any opposition to their travelling overseas. I think it is a wonderful thing that they do. Perhaps they learn something about the customs and traditions of other countries which in the long term, one hopes, may have some effect upon international relations. The fact is that many people have never seen their own country. They find it too expensive to travel in their own country to see the scenic beauties of Australia- the Northern Territory, the north-west of Western Australia and other areas. Without question costs are having an inhibiting effect upon overseas travellers coming to Australia. They never leave Sydney, Melbourne or maybe Canberra. They find the cost of travel to other parts of Australia prohibitive. It would be interesting to know the overall loss to Australia caused by the high internal cost structure of Australian air travel. If costs were less how many more people would travel to various parts of Australia and spend their money in those parts of Australia, instead of going to Melbourne or Sydney and then clearing off somewhere else? 
I do not know whether a proper cost benefit analysis of this has been done. Because of these various matters maybe we as a nation are losing more than the Government is taking. Let us look at the operations of MacRobertson Miller Airlines Services in my home State. I suggest that the whole of the cost of the facilities used by that airline in Western Australia should properly be charged to development, because it is the only real means of travel over the vast distances of Western 
Australia for those people who wish to travel quickly and conveniently. The other means of travelling the long distances is by road. No doubt the travellers on that airline are being charged for the cost of the facilities that it uses throughout the north of Western Australia, particularly those used by jets. 
What is the situation with general aviation, which is the poor cousin of the aviation industry? If any government expects full recovery from general aviation it will drive this important sector of the aviation industry out of business. General aviation cannot afford further fare increases. If increased charges are imposed on it by the Government, charges which it cannot hope to meet without fare increases, I suggest that more and more of these operators who are providing a service to many of the outlying areas will be driven out of operation. I trust that they will receive special consideration. Certainly if it is not being given, it should be given to this sector of the industry. 
There is a lot more I wish to say about this matter, but I have been asked to keep my remarks fairly brief. I had an impression that civil aviation was like a lactating cow with an inexhaustible supply of milk. I do not believe it has an inexhaustible supply of milk. I believe that those who use the airlines should pay a reasonable amount for the services. There must be some decision as to that reasonable amount and, in accordance with the Act, what is properly attributable to other factors such as defence. Perhaps the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  could indicate the present percentage recoverable from all charges made upon the airlines, not just air navigation charges, but fuel charges and meteorological charges. Meteorological charges are the interesting ones. I think the airlines provide a lot of the meteorological information. Going back from Canberra to Perth each week I am becoming more and more horrified at the inaccurate information received by the airline captains. The weather information on Perth or Melbourne changes about 3 times during the flight. Often we are told that there will be fog, and there are bright blue skies. Often we are told that there are bright blue skies, and there is fog. We are told that there are 160 kilometre an hour headwinds, and there are no headwinds. 
The airlines are providing as much information as the meteorological service, yet a tremendously heavy charge is made on the airlines for meteorological services. I ask the Minister to obtain, not now but at some other time, information on the actual cost of recovery of all charges made on the airlines and what airline services are paying for others. I imagine that there are MelbourneSydney services, for example, on which the recovery rate is tremendously high, both internal and international. I am concerned that if these charges continue to escalate, if the cost structure of the Austraiian airlines is continually rising, the airlines will be priced out of the market. The final loser will be me Government. 
I note that the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has established an aviation review committee which, as I understand it, consists of representatives of the airlines operating in Australia. I hope that the Government will give proper and sympathetic consideration to the recommendations which will be made by this committee whose members are representatives of the airlines- Qantas Airways Ltd, TransAustralia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia or the other airlines which may be involved. They are in the business. They know what is happening. Many of the anomalies which exist today can be removed. 
I make a final point, which relates to the application by MacRobertson Miller Airlines for a licence to fly between Port Hedland and Bali which at least temporarily has not been granted. If the Government thinks that the operations of Qantas between Perth and Bali in any way meet the reasonable wishes of the people of the Pilbara region, it should think again. Another 3000-odd kilometres is added to the distance between Port Hedland and Bali if people have to fly on the Qantas service through Perth. The distance between Port Hedland and Bali is almost identical to the distance between Port Hedland and Perth. I do not know whether the Indonesions are being a bit difficult. It is said that they are. I find it difficult to accept that they would, because they have a service between Darwin and Bali. I suggest to the Government and to the Minister that the service between Perth and Bali is not meeting in any sense the wishes of the people of the Pilbara region, a region that I know very well. I fail to see why the negotiations cannot continue. The Government should press the case that this service be undertaken by an Australian airline that serves the region. I know that my remarks are not directly related to the legislation, but I must make that point. 
I have received correspondence from the Minister and answers in which he sets out the position. I know it is not closed. I believe we must press on to obtain this service which, it is quite obvious from the response of the people in the Pilbara, they want and will use. It will be an economic service. I question whether the PerthBali service will prove economic. I would be interested to know the loadings and the anticipation of loadings and how much free loading there is between Perth and Bali to make up the traffic. I have no information about this matter, but I suggest that there may be some free loading. Leaving out the Christmas-New Year period, which will always be an attractive time, one wonders how economic that service will be. One can assume, from the demand in anticipation from the Pilbara area for services between Port Hedland and Bali, that it will be an economic service. I think the people in that part of the world who put up with plenty of hardships are deserving of more consideration than they are receiving at the moment. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into Australia and the Indian Ocean region. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Senator Sim)-  by leaveproposed: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Keeffe)  adjourned. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into Australia and the refugee problem. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I wish to make only a few remarks concerning this important report. The major part of the inquiry was conducted under the chairmanship of my colleague and friend  Senator Primmer.  I should like to pay tribute to his fairness and impartiality on a subject which was one of sensitivity and controversy. I should also like to say that the members of the Committee, in considering a report which is highly critical of 2 governments, in my belief acted in the best traditions of Senate committees. I think we all realise that Senate committees are not the creatures of Executives; their responsibilities and obligations are to the Senate. I wish to say in fairness to the members of the Committee that I believe this was uppermost in their minds in considering this report. As I said, this report is a highly critical one. It is critical of 2 governments. It is critical of departments for the lack of understanding and appreciation of the problem of refugees as distinct from migrants. But despite the criticism in the report I believe that the major part of the report- which I hope the Senate and hopefully the Government will take note of- has a positive side; that is, the recommendations which cover a wide field. 
I also wish to pay tribute to the Secretary of the Committee,  Mr Peter  Hocking, who had a most complex task in preparing the draft report. It was a complex task because it covered an extremely wide area. There were many areas of controversy and many contradictions, particularly in statistics which we had to try in some way to bring together. Perhaps before drawing the attention of the Senate to one or two of the recommendations I should read to the Senate the last paragraph of the report. I draw this to the attention of Ministers of this Government. It is on page 86 and in paragraph No. 629. However we may criticise the hide-bound attitude of the bureaucracy, we believe that Ministers have a responsibility and that that responsibility has not been exercised. The report states: 
Finally, the Committee draws attention to the need for positive Ministerial involvement in the matter of the settlement of the Vietnamese, Timorese, Indochinese and other refugees. We regret the failure of Ministers- in the face of available evidence- to react decisively and with sensitivity to the refugees' needs. These latter qualities are basic requisites to the Ministerial directives and initiatives which are required, if the problems which have been raised in the preceding chapters are to be resolved and the recommendations which are made in the final chapter are to be implemented. Until this is done, some refugees may be little better off in Australia than they would have been had they remained in their own countries. 
These may appear to be strong words but the Committee believes that they are justified. I quickly draw attention to a few of the major recommendations and conclusions in the report. The first is the urgent need for the formulation of a refugee resettlement policy. Unfortunately in the very troubled world in which we live today there is no guarantee that Australia as a lucky country will not be faced with this type of problem again, and maybe very soon. Unless we have a policy which is well thought out and which enables us to respond quickly and effectively to refugee crises I am afraid that the problems and the muddle which have been the major factor with Vietnamese, Timorese and other refugees will recur. The Committee has laid down in the report what it believes should be the essential features of a new refugee policy. It believes that refugees, who in some senses may have the same problems as many migrants, come here in most dramatic circumstances, confused and separated from their families with little or no possessions. They probably do not know where they are until they arrive. This happened with Vietnamese, Indo-Chinese and maybe Timorese refugees and, unfortunately, in the world in which we live today it is likely to occur again. 
There is a need to reconsider prevailing attitudes. It is apparent to the Committee that considerable reorientation of basic thinking must take place amongst ministers and a number of departments if a refugee policy is to be formulated on the basis of the general principles which the Committee has laid down. We think that Australia has a part to play in the overall approach to refugees, the international approach through the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. We believe also that there is great dependence upon voluntary agencies but that there is great need for co-ordination of the work of these agencies. The Committee recommends the formation of a refugee policy council, an advisory council comprising a number of government departments which must be involved and the major voluntary organisations. We believe that this council should be within the staffing and control of the Prime Minister's Department, that there should be overall planning and coordination of government activity and the establishment of an interdepartmental committee on refugees. One of the lessons we have learned is the complete lack of co-ordination between the government departments involved with refugees. If one thing stands out clearly it is that. If we are to meet these problems in the future there must be established this type of inter-departmental committee which can react quickly to these problems when they arise. We recommend very strongly that it too should be under the control of the Prime Minister's Department. Obviously this is a senior Department which is not involved in the day-to-day administration. It is the Department which in our view is the best equipped to be the co-ordinating and convening authority. 
The Committee believes that settlement committees should be established. My colleague  Senator Sibraa  saw the United States settlement of Vietnamese refugees and, from his report, the United States has been far more successful than we have, despite the huge numbers it took. One of the reasons for this has been the community participation in helping to settle them. In Australia there was some community participation but it was not co-ordinated or sufficient. That is not to say that there is not good-will and a willingness among the community, but until that good-will is harnessed these problems will inevitably arise. The Committee has made a number of other positive recommendations which I commend to the Senate and the Government. 
This report is an important report. In many ways it has been one of the most difficult references that the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has had to deal with, but it dealt with it in a spirit of humanitarianism, believing in the need to face up to the world situation and the part Australia must play, but above all to see that these unfortunate people when they come to this country for refuge are treated in a humanitarian manner which appreciates their problems. Unfortunately this has not occurred on this occasion. In saying that I am not being critical of the many people, voluntary organisations and others who played a very conspicuous part. The major fault was lack of coordination at, I regret to say, government level. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Will the Minister make a statement showing the effect of the 17 per cent devaluation on the effective rate of tariff protection? Is it a fact that at certain levels of protection the effective rate is increased by between 70 per cent and 100 per cent? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a reported statement by a  Mr Dillon  of the Chamber of Manufactures that Government members advocating tariff reductions following devaluation were acting in an irresponsible manner and should 'belt up  1  1 ask the Minister can  Mr Dillon  be advised that the Parliament is not irrelevant and that members of Parliament have a right and responsibility to discuss and debate important issues and not to take note of selfish pressure groups, without receiving such elegant advice from people such as  Mr Dillon. 
Opposition senators- Hear, hear! 
I have some friends. Perhaps the Minister might advise  Mr Dillon  that he would better serve his own interests if he followed his own advice. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the current reference to the Committee relating to development in the South Pacific be amended by deleting the words 'toward development'. 
For the information of honourable senators, the terms of reference will now read: 
The need for an increased Australian commitment in the South Pacific. 
I add that  Senator Primmer  approves of the changed wording. The change was found necessary after discussions yesterday with officers of the Foreign Affairs Department. It was felt that the previous wording would be rather restrictive to the Committee 's consideration of the reference. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Last Tuesday I asked the Leader of the Government a question based on a reported statement by  Mr 
Dillon of the Chamber of Manufactures advising certain Government members that they should literally belt up. I have now been advised that  Mr Dillon  did not make that statement. I accept that advice without question. Apparently the statement was made by somebody else and was wrongly attributed to  Mr Dillon  in some reports. 
~As usual,  Senator Walsh  has not contributed anything to the standard of debate in this place. He seems to have come into this chamber with a gigantic log on his shoulder. That log is  Sir Charles  Court. Every time  Senator Walsh  speaks he indulges in a long, irrelevant hate session against  Sir Charles  Court. I remind  Senator Walsh  that the same  Sir Charles  Court is the man who was largely responsible in the first place for the tremendous development in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. That should not be forgotten. If  Sir Charles  Court had not had the drive, initiative and foresight that he had, this development never would have taken place and the employment situation may well have been a great deal worse. Indeed, if  Senator Walsh  had visited the Pilbara region some 20 years ago he would have found only one town of any significance, that is, Port Hedland, which had some 1 100 people. Today, because of the enterprise and initiative of  Sir Charles  Court, there are a number of towns in the region and they have living conditions that are amongst the highest one could ever expect in a tropical area. 
It is all very well for  Senator Walsh  to wave a finger around the place and to try to castigate  Sir Charles  Court about his so-called feud with  Mr Lang  Hancock. That has nothing to do with the further development of the iron ore in the Pilbara region. There are plenty of other development projects besides  Mr Lang  Hancock's project which are awaiting the go-ahead. He has one of them.  His  is in the pipeline. But there are plenty of others. I will not express an opinion as to which one has the highest priority, but obviously there will be priorities and, in part, those priorities will be decided by the buyers. 

 Senator Walsh made reference to some areas being made available for oil drilling and said that there were no takers. I say to him that either he does not know the position or he has ignored the fact that these areas are extremely difficult areas for drilling, being in extremely deep water. It is quite understandable that there should be some reluctance at the moment because there are other areas where, prior to the advent of the Labor Government, oil drilling and gas drilling were active. Those areas will become active again. They are areas which, prior to the advent of the Labor Government and  Mr Connor's  disastrous policies, showed great promise. I have no doubt that in time the oil rigs that have left Australian waters and the expertise that has left Australia will return because there is no doubt that these areas are areas of promise. 
I turn to the terms of the urgency motion.  Senator Wriedt  made the very valid point that was also made by  Senator Chaney-  indeed, it is incorporated in the terms of the motion- that any development of the Pilbara region is to the advantage of Australia, not just Western Australia, as development in any part of Australia, including Tasmania, is to the advantage of all Australians. 
That is clearly recognised in the matter of urgency we are discussing. I think  Senator Chaney,  in his opening remarks in this debate, put the importance of development not only in the Pilbara area but elsewhere in its proper perspective. It is only by continued growth and the development of our vast mineral resources that the aspirations and expectations of Australians can be achieved. They cannot be achieved without growth. The money to meet those expectations does not grow on trees. Higher standards of living, better roads, more television, more radio, better health services and so on depend on increased growth in Australia, and mineral growth in particular. Therefore it is vitally important that this Parliament and the community at large give continued strength to encouragement of the development of these vast mineral resources. 
The mineral industry has provided a broader basis upon which Australia can expand. One has to wonder what would have happened if we had not had vast development in the 1960s.  Senator Walsh  has left the chamber but I would remind the Senate of the enterprise and initiative of  Sir Charles  Court. To a very great extent his confidence and his ability to influence people overseas led them to put their capital into such development. It was a risk development in those days and they invested huge amounts. Without that development the Australian economy over the last 4 or S years would have been in a far worse condition than it is. The vast income we earned from our mineral exports to a very large extent sustained the Australian economy in recent times. We must have further growth if the Australian economy is to grow stronger. To a large extent this again will depend on the development of mineral resources, particularly those in the Pilbara region of Western Australia where there are still large untapped resources. 
It is true that the iron ore industry has gone through some difficult times but that is a part of life. Continued growth is not always possible. The world economic recession affected the steel industry in Japan quite drastically but as that industry comes out of that recession there are indications of what is to come.  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Thomas  mentioned the large expenditure by the Hamersley company and the Mount Newman company in increased facilities to increase production. The increased orders they have received already from Japan indicate the faith of the Japanese in the Australian industry.  Senator Wriedt  made an extraordinary statement when he referred to  Sir Charles  Court having bad relations with the Japanese. I do not know where he got that information.  Sir Charles  Court is constantly speaking to the Japanese. 
There has been no indication that the Japanese are antagonistic in any way to  Sir Charles  Court. On the contrary, his relations with them have always been extremely cordial. I would be very interested to see the evidence to support that allegation by  Senator Wriedt. 
I do not think there is much good to come from dwelling on the disastrous policies of the past but there certainly was antagonism between the Japanese and  Mr Connor.  They did not understand  Mr Connor.  They did not know what he was talking about. One doubts whether he knew at times what he was talking about. He seemed to have some great chip on his shoulder.  Senator Wriedt  returned again today to this bogy of foreign devils, foreign ownership. Let us be quite blunt about this. We are never going to develop the vast mineral resources in Australia, whether it be the Nott West Shelf gas which requires $2,000m plus or any other project, if we wait for funds from within Australia. That type of money is just not here. Some of it, a great deal of it, must come from overseas. 
It is rather interesting to recall the attitude of the Malaysians to foreign investment. Their investment guidelines are very similar to those which we have in Australia today. They want a substantial equity, indeed a majority equity, whenever possible, but if an enterprise is in the interests of Malaysia the Malaysians are prepared to accept 100 per cent foreign equity to get the development started. Very rightly that country has a strong feeling of economic nationalism but it realises the simple fact of life that you have to have this type of investment. Is it such an evil thing? After all, foreigners cannot take away their mines. In all the agreements that  Sir Charles  Court has made with the iron ore companies there is in the final analysis complete control by Australia and the companies accept that position. They accept it because they know the rules of the game. They do not accept when they do not know the rules. Unfortunately that has happened in the past. 
Let us look at the development of gas on the North West Shelf. As  Senator Chaney  pointed out, this development was hindered and deferred because of past policies. Let us forget about that and look to the future because here is an enterprise of tremendous promise to Australia. Now, when certain problems have been settled, the green light is showing for this development. We want it. We want the export income. We want controlled exports which are of value to Australia. We also want the gas for Australian industry. It may well be that gas from the North 
West Shelf will be the means of further developing industries in the Pilbara and other regions of Western Australia. It is of vital importance not only to Western Australia but also to the future of Australia. The employment situation was worrying  Senator Walsh  but I would point out that it is estimated that for every job provided in the mining industry there are 3 jobs provided also to support it. 
I will repeat it. For every job in the mining industry there are 3 jobs to support it, not necessarily in Rockingham and not necessarily in Perth but throughout Australia. Those figures can be well documented. The development of Pilbara will mean more employment in Western Australia and perhaps more employment in other parts of Australia. It is a vital project not only for Western Australia but for Australia and it should receive support from all sides of the House. We do not want knockers; we want people with faith in the future who are prepared to take risks. Overseas investors have shown their faith in the past but they have been discouraged and frustrated. Now they are once again showing faith in the future development of Australia. I would have thought that anybody interested in the development of Australia and in providing employment - 
And people. After all, people in jobs are happy people. No one is arguing about that. I am not knocking environmentalists. I am only knocking the extreme people who do not believe in development simply because they want to protect something that probably does not exist. If we are going to have development, if we are going to provide jobs and make our people happy, we do not want knockers but people with faith. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
I think the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is to be commended on this most comprehensive defence statement. I think it is the most comprehensive defence statement ever presented to the Australian Parliament. In the past, defence has been treated by the Parliament as of rather small moment. The fact that governments have not seen fit to present comprehensive defence statements is, I think, more the fault of Parliament than of governments. I also must observe that often in the past defence statements have been based upon attitudes and ideology, rather than realistic assessments. I commend  Senator Wriedt  tonight for his speech with most of which I think  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and myself are in agreement. I also commend  Senator Sibraa  for his remarks. We are dealing with defence in a manner in which it should be dealt with. 
Whether one agrees with all the assessments made in this White Paper, it does avoid the mistakes which sometimes occurred in the past of ideological comment, because in the final analysis what we are talking about when we speak of defence is the security of the nation. Security is first safeguarded by an effective foreign policy. For a foreign policy to be effective it requires a defence POliCY to support it. There has not been enough appreciation of the role that military forces play in international relations and the credibility that strong defence forces give a country's diplomacy. This defence White Paper covers 4 elements of defence assessment: Intelligence, strategic policy, force structure and development and management. This break up into these 4 areas is welcomed as it provides some insight into the Government's thinking on all these matters. 
However, there are some comments I will make which I trust will be accepted in the spirit in which I make them. I do not make them as a criticism, but as a constructive attempt to further develop and improve defence debate in the Parliament and in the country. Perhaps my criticism would be better directed again at Parliament rather than at governments. In the past, Parliament has been happy to accept from governments of all political complexions at times rather sloppy statements. Certainly Parliament itself has not encouraged governments to provide more detailed analysis of its thinking within, of course, unclassified limits. I doubt whether any other parliament in the world would have accepted some of the assertions which have been made in the past and, I suggest, one or two which have been made in this White Paper, without challenge or comment. 
I deal with only one or two of these matters as examples. The first to which I would draw attention is the statement contained in paragraph 29 at page 6 of the White Paper. It deals with South East Asia and states: 
For a variety of reasons much will depend on how China, the closest of the external powers, decides to pursue its interests. It maintains its contact with the Maoists, and some support for dissident parties in the region, although currently at a subdued level. Chinese support for insurgencies in South East Asia appears now to be at a lower level than for many years. 
One must ask whether in fact this is an accurate statement. Chinese support is being maintained for insurgency in Thailand and Burma. Whether it is at a much lower level, it is difficult to know, but certainly there is considerable support. So at least we must question the accuracy of that statement. I think it would have been helpful if, in support of that statement should it be accurate, the Government had analysed as to why this is so. I do not know whether we are being asked to accept the idea that perhaps there has been a change in the face of policy on the part of China. I am not too sure how to read the statements. I do not know whether it is suggested that China's policy has changed and it no longer seeks to guide and support fraternal parties on a large scale. While China's foreign policy may have altered in emphasis over recent years, I suggest there has never been any evidence that China has ever changed its view that history has shown it that the world can be liberated from the imperialists and the capitalists provided the correct course is followed; that is, of course, the correct Marxist-Leninist doctrines. But if it is at a lower level, perhaps we should attempt to analyse why. I hope my criticism is constructive when I say that it may have been wise for the Government to have provided the Parliament with the reasons. 
It could be argued that the Sino-Soviet conflict which has now extended into South-East Asia is a reason. The Chinese Government would question the wisdom of providing large-scale support for insurgency in Malaysia for fear of alienating the established government and driving it maybe further towards the Soviet Union to the disadvantage of China. We do not know whether China support on a former scale is now required. It is known that insurgents in the north-east of Thailand and indeed m the south of Thailand are now being armed with some of the most modern United States weapons which were left behind in Vietnam. That is adding a new dimension to the problem in Thailand. We do not know whether at the moment China is concentrating on its domestic problems or whether the Chinese have decided that because of a dispute within the communist parties of South-East Asia they can rely upon them to follow the correct MarxistLeninist line and not turn more and more to the Soviet Union. They have learned this to their cost in Vietnam and Angola. They might also consider that the time is not ripe at the moment for revolution; that we are now in a trough and the wave will come when they will provide more support. This has been the history of Chinese support for revolutions. I doubt very much whether this assertion is endorsed by all of our Association of South East Asian Nations friends. I think it would be more prudent to assume that Chinese policy will continue to support the correct Marxist-Leninist and anti-colonial forces. Any concessions made to imperialist powers will be made in the form of hard bargaining that extracts every ounce of advantage for the Chinese. I do not think it is sufficient, as the White Paper says, to recognise important differences in political attitudes. I suggest that there are vital differences in aims and objectives. As has been pointed out, the same aims and objectives apply to the Chinese as apply to the Soviet Union and none of these is in our interests. 
The White Paper does express a view of South-East Asia which I think is a correct one, and that is that there has been a strong improvement in the situation in South-East Asia. The assessments are still necessarily short term. The defence White Paper says that our assessments 'depict a regional situation with reasonable prospects of stability, although'- and here the qualification is- 'with many imponderables and uncertainties'. Again I say it might have been better if we had been allowed to enter into the minds of the Government to find out how it sees these imponderables and uncertainties. Perhaps it would have enabled us to make better judgments. I say this not to be critical; I hope to be constructive as a means of seeking an improvement in our defence debates. I believe that the fault has lain more with the Parliament in the past than with former governments. Now that the Parliament is taking a greater interest, I trust, in defence matters, I hope governments will be encouraged to provide the Parliament with full information as to their thinking. 
There are many encouraging signs amongst the Association of South East Asian nations- the ASEAN countries- but big power competition still exists. There is a competition between the Soviet Union and China which is a matter of concern for the countries of the ASEAN region. The main concern at the moment is the policy of the new administration in the United States of America and what priority it will give to its relations with South East Asia. Perhaps this is one of the imponderables and uncertainties about which the Government speaks in its White Paper. The fear is that, if the United States regards South East Asia as an area of low priority, the only two major powers left to compete are the Soviet Union and China, without the balancing effect of the United States. I agree with the Government's thinking that this is an imponderable and an uncertainty. It is very much in the minds of the countries of Asia. 
Dealing with South East Asia, I am a little puzzled as to the very short reference to Vietnam. I believe that another one of the imponderables and uncertainties is the relationship between the ASEAN states and Indo-China. It could well be that Vietnam will be a more destabilising influence in South East Asia than will the other powers. It is giving widespread support and encouragement to insurgency at the moment. There is concern as to its ultimate objectives. Therefore, I wonder why it is dealt with so briefly in this paper. 
The other matter to which I make some reference concerns a statement which appeared to say that there has been no extension of nuclear power in the region. Some time ago India exploded a nuclear device. I would have thought that that was an example of the extension of nuclear power certainly into the South East Asia and Indian Ocean regions. I wonder why that was ignored. 
Having made those fairly minor criticisms of the White Paper, there are one or two other aspects to which we should refer. I mention first the way in which  detente  is dealt with. The Government accepts the value of  detente.  I believe that  detente is  of limited value. I think it was either  Senator Scott  or  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack who said that  detente  did not mean that the Soviet Union was not going to support wars of national liberation. The Soviet Union itself does not claim that they come within the umbrella of  detente  yet such wars could be one of the more destabilising influences, particularly in the Indian Ocean region. The White Paper in dealing with  detente  states a qualification that neither exploits the other's difficulties. I would have thought that this was a little unrealistic as, after all, the aim of  detente  is to restrict competition in areas where it is not- at least on the surface- in the interests of either power to have unrestricted competition. 
The strategic arms race has been mentioned as one area. At the same time as  detente  seeks to restrict competition, new areas of competition are being developed. For example, the United States has a distinct advantage in trade and technology. It would be quite unreal not to expect the United States to exploit this advantage. One wonders whether the question really concerns exploiting one another's difficulties; it seems to be rather an odd expression. 
It seems to me, those points being made, that the defence requirements as laid down in the White Paper are sensible. They include a mobility, an independent logistic capability, a means to control our sea approaches and to provide surveillance on our continental shelf and, of course, forces to repel and attack on our own shores if that need should eventuate. I agree with  Senator Sibraa  and  Senator Scott  that the most likely foreseeable attacks are attacks from terrorism or very low level attacks which would require us to protect our shores. Very sensibly, the White Paper recognises that these are the defence requirements in the near future. 
I suppose that the critical issue that faces our defence planners and which is not dealt with at great length in this paper is the mix of weapons which will be required. I can understand why at this stage this matter is not dealt with at any length. I think that we are still developing our strategic considerations. I hope that, as time goes on, further statements will be made by the Minister as these issues become clearer so that the Parliament will be informed of the Government's thinking. Certainly this White Paper provides the basis on which to build further statements. 
I welcome the recent decision by the Government regarding intelligence gathering and assessment. It is essential that, while intelligence for Australia should be gathered from as wide a source as possible, we should make assessments of our own that fit in with our requirements and not necessarily the requirements of others. I think that this is one of the most valuable moves that has occurred in the field of defence for some time. I wonder why there is no mention in the White Paper of the new generation of modern high technology weapons which are now becoming well known. It would seem to me, particularly as the White Paper rightly places considerable stress upon the need for self-reliance- which I am sure is the wisest and only policy- that we should have been given some indication of the Government's thinking regarding these weapons many of which, as I understand them, could be of tremendous value as they would increase our defence capacity considerably. Their acquisition would be of immense value to Australia. Again, stress is being given to this aspect and we can expect in the future some statements from the Government on such weapons. 
I welcome as realistic the statement which appears in paragraph IS of the White Paper dealing with the ANZUS treaty and our relations with New Zealand. I think that the statement made is a most prudent and wise one. Several of my colleagues have referred to it already. In dealing with the ANZUS treaty the White Paper states'.  . . but it is prudent to remind ourselves that the U.S. has many diverse inerests and obligations. 
Its interests and obligations may not at times be in complete line with ours. The White Paper continues: 
Australia has local and regional associates with whom we enjoy close and co-operative relations. We must continue to work constructively with them to support stability and security in the general strategic situation; and by our own policy and effort we can insure against the uncertainties that continuing change will sustain and that could produce situations with which we may well have to deal on our own. 
As I have said, that is a sensible and prudent statement. We will have to rely more and more an ourselves. No longer can we rely completely on great and powerful friends, as we may have been able to do in the past. Except for the several points that I have raised in relation to which I feel that the Parliament should be given further information as to government thinking, I believe that the Government has in this White Paper provided a basis for informed debate not only in the Parliament but also, one would hope, in the community at large. I think that it augers well for future defence statements, which I hope will deal comprehensively with the subject. If governments of the day are to have the support of Parliament and the essential support of the people, they must provide all the information they possibly can as to their thinking and as to requirements. We can then expect the debate on defence in the Parliament and the country to develop further. I believe that there have been indications tonight of bipartisan attitudes developing. I think that the Minister deserves commendation for what he has attempted to achieve. I certainly wish him good luck. 
We on this side of the House can engage in a difference of an opinion without animosity. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

I am not amused. We know that there are differences of opinion in the Opposition. But if the Labor Caucus decides, like little lambs they all bow down. We on this side can express our opinions. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

They sound like sheep baabaaing at a race. We on this side can express our opinions if we disagree, freely and without fear. That is more than the Opposition can do. Their ha-has haw-haws - 
I do not wish to be provocative, but I do get annoyed with those on the opposite side who toe the line obediently and start to hawhaw those on this side of the chamber who do not have to be slaves to a system. I merely rise - 
I do not wish to listen to you. You toe the line like a little lamb who goes along to the slaughter. I merely rise to express my support for the views expressed by my colleagues,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack,  Senator Wright, Senator Rae  and  Senator Harradine  so that it will be on public record that I support the view they have expressed. 

 -Mr President, I will speak for 30 seconds. I rise merely to say that I support the view of those of my colleagues who oppose this legislation and to declare that I will be opposing the legislation when it comes to a vote. I do not cast any doubts on the integrity of those of my colleagues who disagree with me. But I take a very strong view. I am opposed to this legislation. They have the right to support it. But my position will remain constant. 

 - Senator Wriedt debates sensitive matters such as foreign affairs in a very reasonable and moderate manner and that is the way I believe they should be debated. When our differences are stated moderately there is no attempt at smart aleck comments to secure political points against each other. Perhaps it is a sign of growing maturity in the Parliament, certainly in the Senate, that we can discuss important foreign policy in this manner. It is fair to say that over past years there have been very few foreign affairs debates in this Parliament. There have been very few comprehensive statements from governments setting out in detail their policies. Previously a number of statements have been made dealing with one or two aspects of foreign policy but I think it is correct to say that this is the first time for many years that such a comprehensive, detailed and positive statement has been made. I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  deserves our congratulations. The Parliament is entitled to be informed about the Government's thinking on these matters. 
As  Senator Wriedt  stated, the Minister clearly recognises in his statement that the world today is changing. He also recognises that Australia has an important part to play in the type of world in which we live and in the type of world which is likely to develop. This is the time for new approaches to these problems. The Minister made the point- I think we have been a long time in coming to it- that foreign policy cannot be conducted in a vacuum. It must take account of matters such as economic and trade policies. 
Foreign policy cannot be formed apart from the economic and trade policies being followed by other governments or the reactions of countries with which we have close relations. I note that the Minister states this very clearly. For a long time I have argued in the Senate that the selfishness of Australia's trade policies has not improved our image or our foreign relations with many countries. Until recently trade policies and economic policies were conducted in their own little areas and foreign policy was conducted in its own little area. I am glad to know that the Government, recognising the danger of this policy, has now realised that foreign policy must be conducted on a broad front. The Minister stated in his speech: 
We will also have to give increasing attention to ensuring coherence and co-ordination in our policy. The days when foreign policy was something relatively self-contained are over. The distinctions between domestic and foreign, economic and political, are becoming increasingly blurred. We will have to devise more flexible and integrated methods of decision-making if traditional boundaries and conventional jurisdictions are not to lead to overlapping, inconsistencies and missed opportunities. 
I think that that clearly expresses the view of the Minister and the Government. He also indicated the importance of economic and trade policies in the conduct of our relations with the less developed countries and particularly with ASEAN- the Association of South East Asian Nations- to which now we direct a priority in our foreign policy. I will direct some comments to the subject of economic and trade policies later. The Minister's statement, in a very true sense, represented a global view. I regard this as being perhaps one of the most important parts of his speech. He also recognised what he referred to as the significance of the new agenda for Australia in a speech delivered to the National Press Club last November. I think it is important that we recall his comments then. He argued that our resources, our role as a food producer, our energy resources, our vast mineral resources and our position as a trading nation, were bound to enhance our importance. This in turn will mean that not only will our bargaining power be increased but also that certainly we will almost certainly be subjected to more demands and pressures from the Third World and from other countries which are concerned to find solutions to such questions. 
On a global basis, we do not want to exaggerate our importance, but neither do we want to underplay it. Because of these factors about which the Minister spoke, Australia is not insignificant in the world context. Certainly, we have influences. Where we have influence we should try to direct answers to the problems in a way which suits our national interest; of course, that is for the growing stability and development of the less developed countries of the world. Australia is situated in the same region as, and is very close to, most of the less developed nations. As the Minister pointed out, the region in which Australia is situated is subjected to increasing overcrowding, is short of food and increasingly is concerned about how resources are to be distributed. The recognition by the Minister and the Government that this problem is not only with us but also will be increasing in the coming years is timely. I would like to address myself to this question briefly. 
Recent statements by the Minister in Singaporethey were repeated in the speech we are debating today- that Australia would be placing increased importance on trade and economics in its relations with the less developed world and in particular with ASEAN received welcome recognition and were applauded. At least they gave hope in many of these countries that after many years of Australia's paying lip service to this policy- that is generally as far as we went- the position would be changed. No country has been quicker than Australia to react to changes in trade patterns with the less developed countries which in any sense were regarded as creating any sort of economic dislocation in Australia, regardless of the economic dislocation that our policies caused to the economies of the less developed world. This has led and is leading today to discrimination against Australia by some countries which reacted fairly sharply to our trade policies. This could cause quite serious harm to many Australian industries. 
Therefore, the Minister's statement that as a matter of Government policy increased priority would be given to economics and trade is welcome. But I want to stress that time is not on our side in adopting policies in line with our stated intentions. The present domestic problems facing Australia are understood but they will not be understood if we disrupt the economies of the less developed countries in protecting Australian industry. While the problems are understood now, they are less likely to be understood in. say, 12 months' time. The time will come when we will be expected to stop talking and to deliver the goods. I believe that this is one of the most important factors facing Australia. The economic and political stability, particularly of the ASEAN region, is vital to our security. 
The ASEAN region is an area of growing trade for Australian exports. The region seeks investment to develop its industries so that 
ASEAN countries can develop stronger and far more balanced economies and be less susceptible to changes in the prices of agricultural products. I repeat that I believe this is vital to the security of Australia. We want to be less selfish in our attitudes. As the Minister said, we are a well endowed country. I repeat: Time is not on our side. Before long we will be expected to give more than lip service and stated intentions. We will be expected to make some advances in recognising the economic problems of the countries to our north and indeed in other regions as well. 
I refer to that part of the Minister's statement concerning the importance that we are placing upon our relations with Western Europe. I noticed that  Senator Wriedt  made reference to this fact. It is welcomed. I take the point that the Minister made that relations with Western Europe over some years have not been as close as desirable. We have been inclined to ignore the importance of Western Europe and the growing development, one trusts, of political and economic unity in the European Economic Community. Of course, Western Europe is a region with which Australia has substantial trade relations.  Senator Wriedt  referred to the difficulties we have had with the agricultural policies of the EEC. I come back to the point that I have just made. Many countries have the same difficulty with the industrial and economic policies of Australia. This is a 2-way system. While we complain bitterly about policies of protectionism in the agricultural area being followed by Europe, other countries complain just as bitterly of the industrial protection being afforded Australian industry. The Minister recognised the importance, politically and strategically, of Europe.  His  indication that the Government intends developing a closer and broader relationship with Europe I think is certainly pleasing and is getting our priorities straight. 
It also should be noted as a matter of interest and some importance that Western Europe is proceeding to move much closer to ASEAN. Only recently an EEC delegation visited the ASEAN countries. I think this indicates that Western Europe is probably today less inward looking and that it is starting once again to broaden its relationship. It would seem therefore very timely that Australia now seeks to broaden its relationship with Western Europe. I think one of the most encouraging signs in our region- this was mentioned in the Minister's speech- is the indication that members of ASEAN are now developing far greater coherence and understanding between themselves on a very broad front- culturally, politically, economically and socially. The countries of ASEAN regard with a great degree of urgency the development of these relationships. Again, I do not believe that time is on their side. No member of ASEAN underestimates the problems of developing this relationship. The uneven economic development of the countries creates problems with regard to trade and tariffs, but there seems to be an encouraging sign: Having recognised these problems there is a determination to overcome them. 
I think one of the great problems we face in the region at the moment is the uncertainty as to the policies of the new United States Administration towards ASEAN and the region in which we live. At the moment this is creating uncertainties in the region not only as regards ASEAN but also with regard to Korea. I am glad that Korea got a mention in the Minister's statement. Strategically Korea is a country of tremendous importance particularly to Japan. Any change or the creation of any instability or uncertainty in Korea most certainly would have a very undesirable effect upon Japan. I think we should recognise more and more the importance of Korea in the AsianPacific region. With this uncertainty as to United States policies there appears to be a desire amongst ASEAN members to have much closer relationships with Japan and Australia. It is interesting that Japan itself, by way of recent statements from Japanese sources, recognises the importance of ASEAN and the desire of the Japanese not only to have closer economic relationships and understanding with ASEAN- this has not always been so- but also a stronger political relationship with ASEAN. 
We must recognise that one ofthe great problems which face ASEAN countries is that if the United States takes little interest in them there will arise the problem ofthe Sino-Soviet conflict which at the moment is very real in competing for influence amongst the ASEAN countries. The ASEAN countries have a very natural and understandable fear that unless some other great power maintains interest in the region they could be crushed between the 2 communist giants competing for influence. Therefore there is a strong desire not only to maintain United States presencean investment presence as well as a political presence- in the region as a balancing factor but also to ensure that there is a growing Japanese interest in the region, again to balance the presence of the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China which in itself creates uncertainty and some degree of instability. 
I believe that the Government recognises that Australia cannot isolate itself from any part of the world. Insecurity and instability in any part of the world inevitably will have an effect upon the stability and security of Australia. The Minister, in this very comprehensive speech, I think clearly recognises this fact. He also recognises that Australia, if its voice is to be heard, must ensure that our relations with the world are further developed so that Australian influence will, where it can, be used. 
I make a brief reference to the comments on the Indian Ocean. I am pleased to see that the Minister states that the Russian presence poses no direct threat to Australia but that the presence nevertheless creates problems for Australia. I do not think that I need say much more about that as my views on the Indian Ocean I think are known and also the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence dealt at great length with the problems of the Indian Ocean. I am glad that there has been a recognition of the importance of the South Pacific. As we have said before, it is an area which we in Australia have neglected somewhat. Again, I do not want to deal with it now because, as honourable senators know, the subject of the South Pacific has been referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which will shortly commence hearing evidence. 
I welcome the Minister's speech. I think it is a positive and realistic assessment of the world situation and of the problems which increasingly are going to beset us. It indicates Australia's recognition of those problems and, as the Minister said, of the new agenda and the part we must play in helping to overcome the problems. That will take understanding on Australia's part. It will mean that we as a nation must be less selfish in our attitudes to the less developed world. Trade and economics are going to play a very vital part in our relations not only with ASEAN but with other parts of the less developed world. Our security and our stability depend upon a recognition of this and upon a willingness by Australia to play its full part in assisting the less developed world to develop so that those countries might be less unstable. I believe that is the great challenge which faces not only the Government but also the people of Australia. 
I ask the Minister for Education: Is it a fact, as asserted by  Mr Peter  Samuel in a recent article in the  Bulletin,  that the taxpayer is funding in Australian tertiary education institutions such degree courses as travel and recreational research, photography, secretarial studies and life management? If this be true, might not then the proposed course on funeral direction at the Gippsland Institute include a section entitled 'Burying the Taxpayers with Financial Burdens for Academic Irrelevancies'? 
I recall that during the term of the previous Government, when the legislation to establish an Australian Development Assistance Agency was introduced into the Parliament I questioned the wisdom of the establishment of such an Agency. I know that the Opposition at the time did not oppose it, but I had very serious doubts about it. I believed that the divorcing of aid from the Department of Foreign Affairs would cause problems in the proper co-ordination of our aid program, particularly in relation to foreign policy. Whatever is said, aid is an important element in the conduct of foreign policy. I think it should be acknowledged that the previous Government, particularly the then Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  recognised this and tried to overcome the problem of co-ordination by appointing a body to co-ordinate aid. From memory, I think the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs was a member of that body. 
It is fair to comment from memory also that  Senator Willesee  acknowledged the force of some of the arguments which questioned the wisdom of the then Government's policy. He recognised the problems and he sought to ensure that there would be proper co-ordination by the establishment of an advisory body. However, whatever the intentions were- I believe they were the best intentions and that the then Minister recognised the close relationship which should exist between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the body responsible for aid- history has shown that these intentions were not realised. Whatever advantages were then expected from the establishment of a separate agency, it did not encourage or assist the close working relationship which was necessary between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the aid agency. 
If any honourable senators read the record of the hearings of previous Senate Estimates Committee A they will see that another factor of which I was extremely critical was the tremendous growth in the number of personnel in the Agency. I think that at some stage the number reached about 750. Of course, this greatly increased the cost of the administration of our aid program. I think it is fair to say that the Minister recognised this problem at the time. Nevertheless the Agency continued to grow in strength. I think the history of aid throughout the world shows that the cost of the administration of aid is tremendous. Much of the funds which have been provided by donor countries to the multi-lateral aid agencies, the United Nations and others, has been eaten up by the bureaucratic machines that are devised to administer aid programs. 
I think it is terribly important to recognise and to acknowledge that the administration of aid is a very specialised objective and that those engaged in the administration of aid should be people who have a high degree of specialisation. I notice that when the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  introduced the legislation which we are now debating he recognised this objective. I shall quote from his second reading speech. He covered 2 points. One is the need for close co-ordination between aid and foreign policy and the other is the part played by those whose responsibility it is to administer aid influencing the nation's foreign policy. I quote from the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 17 March at page 332 where the Minister said: 
Effective administration of our foreign policy, and indeed the development of the best possible policies, requires that officers concerned with aid should be given opportunities to make an appropriate input into thinking about our foreign relations as well as being fully conscious of the manner in which those relations bear upon their responsibilities. 
It appears to me that this is a clear recognition by the Minister and by the Government that those responsible for the administration of aid have an effective part to play in Australian foreign policy. The Minister went on to say: 
In other words, there must be close working relations between aid officers and their colleagues of the Department. The new arrangements will facilitate the development of such relationships. In establishing a Bureau the Government is concerned to maintain the professional approach to aid administration and the opportunity for career specialisation which was being developed in the Agency. The Bureau will have a very substantial degree of autonomy in relation to financial management of the development assistance program. 
This seems to me to be the most desirable element- the close co-ordination between the aid Bureau and the Department of Foreign Affairs. This is why I say that under this legislation the career specialisation will be protected and the Bureau, because of its close relationship with the Department of Foreign Affairs, will be in a far better position than it would be as a separate statutory body to provide an input into the development of Australian foreign policy. Because there is a tendency with all statutory bodies to work in watertight compartments- this is something which I think everyone in this Parliament knows- they develop their own pride and I feel that they resent, quite naturally, having to consult others in the development of their own policies. This is not conducive to proper coordination of aid and foreign policy. 
I recognise that overseas aid is an important humanitarian consideration which we all recognise, but its main objective, I believe, is to assist in stable development in the less developed countries as a contribution to peace, stability and good international relations. I believe that over the years Australian aid policies have been generally most effective. Emphasis has been placed on the needs of recipient countries according to their needs and their priorities. There is a continuing need to concentrate on programs in which we as a nation can assist the recipient countries better to help themselves. This surely must be the main objective of our aid programs. 
I have always been critical of the emphasis on the amounts of money given in aid when I have heard great emphasis on 0.7 per cent of the gross national product being given in aid. That may be a very desirable objective, provided the money that is given is spent effectively. Much of the aid given throughout the world has been judged on the amount of money that has been spent regardless of whether it has been spent effectively or whether it has helped the recipient countries to help themselves. There has been some ratu ":r sloppy thinking about this. The most effective programs that I have seen have been the least expensive in money terms. 
I recall our aid program in Singapore under which we provided expertise and equipment to produce craftsmen at a level lower than technicians which the Singapore people required at the time. Under that aid program we provided a small number of lathe experts and experts in other technical areas. We brought Singaporeans to Australian technical colleges so that they could go back to their country and teach their own people. Many of them were swallowed up by industry where they provided an expertise which was lacking. We continued to provide training for these people and enabled them to go back to their country for short periods to train their own people at this level. At the time this was the most effective system of aid that the Singapore Government required, but in money terms it really amounted to very little. I recall the road aid programs in Thailand. We provided from the Snowy Mountains Authority expertise in the form of engineers, mechanics, bulldozer drivers, grader drivers and so on to build roads in co-operation with the Thai Government which provided half of the funds. We provided the other half. In money terms this did not cost much but in effective terms it opened up large areas in the north east of Thailand for the development of agriculture and enabled the people in the area to get their products to markets, something which they were previously unable to do. I recognise that we have continued this type of aid in Thailand and in Malaysia. I know that at the moment we are involved in another aid program in the south of Thailand to open up large rural areas for development under the same system. In money terms this does not amount to very much but in effective terms it opens up for the common people, the people who matter, tremendous opportunities. 
This is why I say that I think we sometimes get confused and rather involved when we talk about aid representing 0.7 per cent or 0.8 per cent of the gross national product, or some other figure which somebody grabs at as being a desirable objective, and thinking that if we spend that much we can sit back and relax. My view has always been that we should judge aid upon its effectiveness and not upon how much money it costs. In general terms I think it can be said to be true that Australian aid has been effective, even if it has not reached this mystical or magical figure of 0.7 per cent of gross national product. 
I take  Senator Harradine  's point. It is a figure which everybody aims at reaching. My argument is that merely to reach that figure because it is a desirable figure without ensuring that it will be effective is a waste of money. That is the point I want to make. It is no use expending $500m a year and saying: 'Look, we are doing wonders. We are spending 3 per cent of the GNP on aid '. Unless that aid is being effective and unless it is assisting countries to help themselves that aid is completely wasted. 
lt may well be. I do not make a judgment on that point. What I am saying is that we should ensure that the aid is effective and not try to reach a particular figure because some judgment has been made about it. 
It is not a smokescreen.  Senator Keeffe  does not know what he is talking about. There is no smokescreen. I think that  Senator Mcintosh  and I probably agree on this pointthat to reach a magical figure without it being effective is a waste of Australian taxpayers' money. We have to ensure that our aid is effective. We have to ensure that what we are doing - 
If we can reach a target and can be effective that is desirable. But if we cannot be effective, we should not reach a target simply for the sake of reaching that target. That is my argument. I notice that my friend,  Senator Mcintosh,  is nodding his head in agreement. If we look around the world- I notice that  Senator Keeffe  is looking at  Senator Mcintosh  and I do not know what he is saying to him but I think that  Senator Keeffe  and I probably disagree-we can see how much money from donor countries has been wasted. The other factor that we have to consider is that Australian aid is granted free. No repayment is required. We may talk about 0.7 per cent, or some other magical figure, of our gross national product for aid, but many countries have tied loans, soft loans or all sorts of loans on which interest has to be paid. It is all very well for a country to lend 1 per cent or 2 per cent of its gross national product for aid if it is to receive 5 per cent interest on it, but our aid is in the form of grants, not loans. No repayment is required. I think that when we look at this sort of magical figure this factor should be taken into consideration. 
I do not think that Australia has anything to be ashamed of in relation to its aid program. I, like  Senator Mcintosh,  have seen the implementation of many of our aid programs. Whilst one might be critical of some of them, in general I think that they have been effective. I was talking recently to a head of mission from one of the most undeveloped countries. He said: 'We do not ask for anything for nothing. The aid we ask for from Australia is the type of aid which will help us to help ourselves. It will help us to train our people to do better and to develop our country. Gifts do not help us because the more you give, the less incentive there is for us to help ourselves'. I will not mention the name of the head of mission or his country but it is one of the less developed countries- one of the poorest countries. That country is looking to Australia for help in areas in which we can best help but, in money terms, that is probably very limited. 
I think this is a principle that we should clearly understand. Money is not everything. We should judge aid on its effectiveness and on how it helps people to help themselves. If we pour too much money into a country we offer no encouragement to those people to help themselves. They are like any other human being in the world; the less they will do for themselves. The only hope for the less developed countries is a type of aid which will encourage them to help themselves. I believe that the decision of the Government to introduce this legislation to establish the Bureau- which should never have left the Department of Foreign Affairs- is a wise decision. It certainly will contribute to the better co-ordination of aid with Australian foreign policy. It will enable those who are responsible for the development of aid programs - 
I do not take much notice of  Senator Keeffe.  There is no wishful thinking involved at this at all. I think that the people who are now involved in aid assistance- people who are responsible, who have a sense of responsibility and who believe that they have a mission to perform and I believe they do- will now be in a far better position to influence Australian foreign policy than they were when they worked as a completely separate body, only joined to the Department of Foreign Affairs by some mystical advisory body. They are now in a far better position to influence foreign policy than they were in the past. I believe that our aid programs will be better directed than they have been in the past because of that. I know that the Government wishes to deal with this legislation this evening so I will say no more than that. I welcome this legislation. I believed, at the time, that it was a mistake to divorce our aid Bureau from the Department of Foreign Affairs. I welcome its return. I believe that those who have a responsibility for the administration of aid and who are dedicated and sincere people have a far better future now. They will have a far greater influence in the development of Australian foreign policy than they had when the Agency was a separate body. I welcome the words of the Minister which clearly recognised this. Knowing the Minister as I do, I believe that he will do everything he can to encourage the Bureau to play a prominent part in the development of our foreign policy. 
Pursuant to order of the Senate, I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings and the explanatory notes provided by the departments whose estimates the Committee considered. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce for an assurance that in the implementation of the policy on manufacturing industry with regard to temporary protection, market sharing and other protective devices, full regard will be paid to foreign policy considerations and a recognition that Australia's role in South East Asia and among other developing countries will be strongly influenced by economic, trading and investment policies. I further ask the Minister that full weight be given to the possible social, political and economic effect of unilateral protectionist policies by Australia on developing nations and the possibility of retaliatory action harming Australia's interests. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a newspaper report to the effect that several Government members presented a letter and a petition to the United States Ambassador addressed to  President  Carter concerning Indonesia's refusal to grant them- the Government members- visas to enter Timor. I ask the Minister Will the Government make it clear to the Indonesian Government that its dissociates itself from the immature antics of these Government members which are unnecessarily harmful to Australian-Indonesian relations 
Yes, I do dissociate myself from them. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that Scotland's most famous export, Scotch whisky, is subject to quotas in Australia? If that is correct, is the reason for the imposition of the quotas to protect Australian whisky producers? Is it also a fact that Australian whisky producers are largely owned by overseas liquor interests? Does the Minister, from his personal expert knowledge, believe that Australian whisky is a suitable equivalent to Scotch whisky? 
I have been rather amazed at the comments made by  Senator Button  who led in the debate on behalf of the Opposition. I thought that he might have taken his cue from the Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  not from the younger Whitlam. The Leader of the Opposition in the other place made what I thought was a fairly statesmanlike speech in support of the legislation. The younger Whitlam engaged in the sort of pinpricking exercise we have heard from  Senator Button.  One wonders whose side he is on- whether the younger Whitlam is now heir to the throne. The National Assessments Bill is too important for us to engage in pinpricking exercises. One might argue justifiably with some of the provisions of the Bill. Perhaps some people will argue with some of the provisions of the Bill, but I think the important thing is that we have a Bill before the Parliament which represents the views of  Mr Justice  Hope. 
Goodness me.  Senator Button  says that the Bill does not represent the views of  Mr Justice  Hope. Why then does he support it and commend it if it does not represent  Mr Justice  Hope's views? I say to honourable senators opposite: Make up your stupid minds. Either it does or it does not represent the views of  Mr Justice  Hope. If it does not, then honourable senators opposite should oppose it. But they should not come out with this wishy-washy nonsense of saying that it does and does not- represent the views of  Mr Justice  Hope but we will commend it. Let us make up our minds where we stand on it.  Mr E.  G. Whitlam came out in full support of the legislation. He had no criticism of the Bill. The young  Mr Whitlam  did and  Senator Button  is following the young  Mr Whitlam,  the heirapparent to the new dynasty developing in Australia. With great respect to  Senator Button,  he also illustrated the backward thinking of the Labor Party. He went back to the Vietnamese war. He went way back into the past. I suppose that that is why the Labor Party is in Opposition. Surely it is time we had some forward thinking. 
The Government has acted on the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope contained in a report which was commissioned- we give credit for this- by the former Government.  Mr Justice  Hope made a full inquiry into Australian intelligence. The fact is that the Government has accepted, to a great extent, as we understand it, the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. It is true that the report is largely secret, which is should be, and that the Government has released those parts of the report which can be made public. We all accept the fact that much of it must remain confidential. 
The Government has acted quickly in accepting the major recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. It has implemented already one of the most major recommendations that he made. I say at the outset that I commend the appointment of  Mr Furlonger  as the first DirectorGeneral of the Office of National Assessments.  Mr Furlonger  is a most distinguished Australian diplomat. He has served Australia with great distinction in many posts and is a former director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation. As  Senator Button  is grinning a little, I might say that his Leader, if he is his Leader, in the other place has commended the appointment of  Mr Furlonger  as being a most proper appointment. Knowing  Mr 
Furlonger, I do not think that the Government could have made a better appointment. I believe that this new Office is attracting applicants of the highest possible order and that when the final choices are made these men will carry out the functions which the legislation intends them to carry out in the manner in which we hope they will be carried out. I am quite sure that this will be done. 
As is explained in the second reading speech, the organisation is to advise the Governmentnot to make policies, but to advise the Governmenton matters of economic and political strategy. These are areas in which I accept  Senator Button's  comment that we have been weak- particularly the area of economic assessments. We hope that the Government now will have available to it expert intelligence information on those areas which are covered by the legislation. I think  Senator Button  oversimplified the matter when he said that it is something new for Australia to have self-reliance. I believe that to a great extent we always have had self-reliance in many areas of policy - 
The honourable senator has so many hangups that it does not matter. He is like his party. It has so many hangups that it does not matter. Maybe Australia has not always had the ability to make assessments in all areas; but to argue that we have never had self-reliance is, I think, rather stupid. It indicates hangups rather than facts. 
-' Hangups', I said. Do not misrepresent me. Hangups are what the honourable senator has. The legislation clearly defines the responsibilities of this new organisation. It is to provide information of the highest order for policy formulation in strategic, economic and political areas so that when the assessments are made at least the Government will have the input to make informed and, one hopes, intelligent judgments. I suppose that we can look back and say that this is a sort of growing up process in Australia. I believe that in the past Australia has provided in many areas assessments which many friendly countries have accepted as being more expert than their assessments. Nevertheless, I think that this is a forward looking policy which is to be commended. After all, we live in a more complex world now. Foreign policy, economic policy and trade policy no longer can be compartmentalised. Foreign policy involves trade, resources, aid, investment and military considerations. Indeed, every department of state is involved in all these areas and not, as it was in the past to some extent, in just political considerations. Today in our relationships with other countries foreign policy encompasses a whole range of matters. 
It is most important that the Office of National Assessments will be a statutory authority. It will not be dictated to by Prime Ministers or departments. It will not be subject to any external control. This is, of course, a radical departure from previous intelligence practices in Australia. 
-Here we are getting into the Bay of Pigs incident. Goodness me, let us look forward, not backwards. I am amazed at the attitude the Opposition has to these things. Here we have an interjection about the Bay of Pigs. Goodness me, let us look forward. 
Who am I to stand in judgment and who is the honourable senator to stand in judgment and say that assessments made by a statutory authority are going to avoid something? The assessments are made; government is advised of the assessments; and the decisions are made by the government. This independent statutory authority will provide the best assessment that it can make. Goodness me,  Senator Mulvihill  talks about the Bay of Pigs. I just said that  Senator Button  was looking backwards. He has hang-ups.  Senator Mulvihill  has the same sort of stupid hang-ups. I am terribly sorry;  Senator Mulvihill  is a nice bloke, but he really does have the hang-ups of the Labor Party. 
It is important- I think the Opposition should take note of this- that there is a special provision in the legislation which does not allow the Office to collect intelligence by clandestine and other methods. I noticed that in the other place one or two people questioned the 'other methods', which I would have thought were quite simple. I commend to honourable senators, particularly those on the Opposition side in view of the speech by  Senator Button  and the interjections that were made by  Senator Mulvihill,  the speech made by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam-not the young  Mr Whitlam,  who engaged in the same sort of nitpicking as  Senator Button.  I also commend to honourable senators the speech made by  Mr David  Hamer, who has had a wide and detailed experience in intelligence. 
Yes, he was director of naval intelligence. I think his speech is worth reading because it was constructive. There was some criticism of the legislation, but it was constructive criticism. I think we all welcome that, but not the sort of nit-picking criticism that we have had tonight. We and the Government should have a close look at the speech made by  Mr David  Hamer. 
Really; the honourable senator interjects with the words 'the senator-to-be'. We are talking about what I think is a serious matter, but we get this sort of interjection. 
We are getting this nit-picking and stupid comments from the Opposition such as 'the senator-to-be'. I will say this: If  Mr David  Hamer becomes  Senator Hamer  he will be a jolly good senator. I cetainly would - 
We now have  Senator Keeffe  getting into the act.  Mr Hamer  would make a jolly good senator and would do pride to this side of the chamber. I suggest to the Government that it has a close look at the observations made by  Mr Hamer.  I think they are deserving of study. I draw attention to a quote which  Mr Hamer  used in his speech from a report of  Mr Justice  Hope. It highlights the importance of this legislation. The quote appears at page 1746 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  and will please the Opposition. I think it is important. We have to realise that we are not a world power. We cannot hope to gain intelligence from all the events which happen in every part of the world. We should concentrate on those areas which are of significance to us.  Mr Justice  Hope stated in his report: 
Australia cannot hope to know everything that is going on in every part of the world. But we can try to keep informed about what people are doing and planning in areas of special significance to us. That requires us to be  discriminating  in choosing subjects for intelligence, collection and assessment. 
I think it is important to note those comments. Intelligence is a two-way business. We cannot hope to know what is going on in every part of the world, but we can have an input from our friends and allies who trust us. We ourselves can make an input in those areas of significance to us and in which we have special expertise to assist our friends and allies as long as it is understood, of course, that such intelligence information is confidential, which has not always been the case. I think if we recognise these factors the Bm despite some criticisms that can be made about certain of its provisions, in general follows very closely the recommendations by  Mr Justice  Hope. The Government has acted in a most commendable manner in picking upon what I suggest is one of the major recommendations of the report to ensure that Australian governments have before them the best possible assessments in the areas of strategy, economics and politics so that they can make judgments. Maybe in the past we have lacked these assessments. This is not a criticism of the efforts of our intelligence organisations. Rather the fact is that they have been tied into departments. This statutory body is completely independent. It can provide governments not with policy decisions but with assessments on which governments have the responsibility to make decisions. 
I come to a point which  Senator Button  made and which I think is important. Now perhaps for the first time one hopes we will be provided-I believe this will occur- with proper economic assessments. I believe we have lacked in this area. A lot of our decisions on trade and economics have been made perhaps somewhat in ignorance and somewhat without proper assessments of what other countries think or do or how they will react. I think an important provision in the legislation concerning the Office of National Assessments is that it will be responsible for providing governments with economic assessments on which they can then make judgments. 
As I said earlier, foreign policy and one's relations with other countries cannot be compartmentalised. It covers the whole of those relationships. I am not quite sure that we in Australia have really begun to realise this. If this Office of National Assessment will provide the Government with information, as I believe it will, it is certainly a most forward step in our relationship with other countries. I think this Bill is of tremendous significance. The Government must be commended upon acting so quickly. The Bill is supported in the main by both sides of the House and certainly by the Leader of the Opposition in the other place whose speech I think was statesmanlike. The Bill I think will bring Australia into Une with world politics. We do not want to think that we are a major power but we are an important power particularly in the region in which we live. I commend the Bill. 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the years 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. I move: 
That the report of the Committee, excluding the appendix, be printed. 
In moving the motion to print the report, may I explain to honourable senators that the printing of the appendix, which incorporates additional material received by the Committee, has been excluded because arrangements have been made, I understand, by all Estimates committees to have additional material received incorporated as far as it is practicable to do so in a single Estimates Committee  Hansard  volume. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to an interview with a  Mr Monte  on the program  Willesee at Six  in Western Australia last Friday evening.  Mr Monte  demonstrated a new lie detector that can be used without a person's knowledge or consent and claimed that its use was legal. 
You would have some fun, wouldn't you? 
You ought to use it on your mob. 
I seek leave to table additional information received by Estimates Committee A. 
I always admire my socialist friends for their ability to travel by car, even if they sometimes plunge up to their knees in water upon alighting. As a capitalist, I always travel to my office by bus. 
It is only the socialists who travel in Mercedes-Benz and Rolls Royce cars to their offices. I also note with interest the dispute between  Senator McLaren  and  Senator Cavanagh  about who bought a block of land, and the attack that was made on the Minister for not developing it. That is a typical socialist ploy, of course. There is no one who enjoys life more that the socialist with his whisky and French champagne and cigars. 
To return to the report of Estimates Committee A, the Committee, in considering the Estimates, came to several conclusions which I would like to bring to the notice of the Senate. In previous reports we had referred to procedures whereby explanatory notes would be made available to honourable senators as early as practicable, to permit a preliminary examination to be made by the committees in private session prior to public examination of the Estimates. We have noted with some pleasure that this aspect has shown improvement. However, following its most recent examination of the Estimates, the committee has proposed that the Government be called upon to give an undertaking to table the explanatory notes on the day immediately following presentation of the Appropriation Bills, thus enabling committees to examine them properly. If one receives them only a week or 10 days beforehand it is very difficult to do that. 
The Committee also noted, with some concern I might add, the lateness in the presentation to the Parliament of the annual reports of some departments and statutory authorities. Whilst these reports do not stand referred to committees, they nevertheless are among the tools used by the committees in exercising their responsibility to the Senate for the scrutiny of government expenditure. It is not the first time that Estimates Committee A has brought these matters to the attention of the Senate. 
The third matter to which the Committee, directed the attention of the Senate was the disparity in the form and content of the explanatory notes. I believe  Senator McLaren  was referring to this matter as I came into the chamber. Some departments do not make sufficient effort to provide a breakdown of what might be described as group amounts. This creates problems and wastes the time of committees, which must then endeavour to ascertain the actual breakdown. 
We are aware that other Estimates committees have had the same problem and that both last year and the year before attention was directed to the great variation in the type of explanatory notes provided. We have advocated a degree of standardisation in the models to be used for committee reports. Estimates Committee A would describe the explanatory notes of the Department of Administrative Services as representing a model which provides the greatest possible detail for use by the committee. I know that other committees have proposed explanatory notes from other departments as models to be followed. Accordingly, Estimates Committee A proposes that the Department of Finance review recent reports of Estimates committees and submit to a meeting of committee chairmen a style of note embracing both form and content; that this would then be used as a model for all departments and statutory authorities. We do this quite deliberately because we had great problems, as the Minister might recall with the explanatory notes of some departments, which were almost impossible to understand. For example, I remember  Senator McLaren  being involved at one stage in an argument over the explanatory notes of a particular department. I am quite sure that the Minister for Administrative Services remembers that. We feel that if we could possibly get some standardisation it would enable a far more proper and effective examination to be carried out of the Estimates. We have suggested that the explanatory notes of the Department of Administrative Services should be used as a model. I know that other committees have suggested that those of other departments should be used as a model. We do not wish to take a firm stance on a particular one. But we do suggest that the Department of Finance should produce a model at which the chairmen of the Estimates committees should look and decide whether it is the best model for use. It is for those reasons that I move: 
That the Committee, having considered the report of Estimates Committee A- 
Requests the Government to give an undertaking to table departmental explanatory notes on the day immediately following the presentation of the Budget Papers or Appropriation Bills to the Parliament. 
Recommends that the Department of Finance, after reviewing reports of Estimates committees over recent years, submit to a meeting of Estimates committee chairmen a style of explanatory notes, embracing both form and content, to be used as a model by all departments and statutory authorities. 
I have explained the reasons we think that the proposition put in paragraph ( 1 ) of the motion is desirable. I have put forward the second proposition because we believe that if we can achieve that aim the Estimates committees can be far more effective than they are at the moment. I think we all agree that one of the aims that we seek to achieve is maximum effectiveness of the parliamentary examination of the Estimates. There is nothing new in what we are proposing. As I said earlier, from time to time over the years the chairmen of the Estimates committees individually have put forward such a proposition. It is now being put in the form of a more formal motion. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the decision by the Australian Government to declare a 320 kilometre- for  Senator Wood's  information- fishery zone by 1 March 1978 and the interest of the Australian fisheries industry to enter into joint venture arrangements with distant fishing states to ensure that Australia shares to the maximum the wealth of the living sea resources. I ask the Minister: When can the industry expect to receive guidelines from the Government for such joint ventures? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the ban placed by trade unions on the shipment of wheat to Indonesia to the detriment of the Australian wheat industry on grounds of principle. Is it a fact that the Australian Council of Trade Unions' travel agency, New World, actively promotes travel to Indonesia? If so, is this not another example of the selective application of principle by trade unions? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a reported statement by  Mr Pat  Clancy, the national secretary of the Building Workers Industrial Union, that Soviet trade unionists support Russia's nuclear energy program because they are satisfied with Soviet nuclear safeguards. Is the Minister aware of any evidence that Russian technology is so far advanced over Western technology that nuclear waste can be disposed of safely in the Soviet Union whereas Western nuclear waste cannot be disposed of safely? Does the statement give the lie direct to the oft repeated claim by opponents in Australia to the development of uranium mining and nuclear energy that there is no known safe method of disposing of nuclear waste? 
I will be brief. These points should be made clearly because I think it is wrong to suggest that the Tariff Board and the Industries Assistance Commission have not taken into account these very factors which are included in this legislation. I have said that I have frequently drawn attention to these factors since 1965. There can be no question at all that highly protected industries are the first to give in to wage demands because they know or believe they can achieve higher protection to cover them. It is very easy to divide people into high protectionists and free traders. I am not a free trader and I never have been. It is wrong to suggest that those who oppose high protection are free traders. There are grey areas. Many of us who have studied 
Tariff Board and IAC reports over many years believe that all of the factors we are talking about have been taken into account. Our plea is that the Government should realise that political considerations are not the only considerations and that chickens come home to roost. The failure by successive governments to conveniently ignore Tariff Board and IAC reports, not for economic considerations but for political considerations, is leading this country not only into economic problems at home but also into great problems with our trading partners. 
I conclude by pointing out that in 10 years' time the countries of South East Asia will have a population of perhaps 300 million people. A 2 per cent increase in demand by this region for products will mean an ever-growing market for Australia. The way we are going, as Lee Kuan  Yew  pointed out, if we continue the policies - 
I will quote Lee Kuan Yew who is the most brilliant and pragmatic leader in Asia. Australia will become more - 
I direct my remarks to clause 8 which amends section 22 of the principal Act. I do so in order to respond to some of the comments which the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  made earlier. Some of us may have suspicions- at least I do- about the purpose of this legislation in view of the consistent attacks being made upon the Industries Assistance Commission from various sources. I do not think that the amendment to the Act will achieve that aim. I wish to refer briefly to two matters. In the view of many authorities there is no question that the high protection afforded to sections of Australian industry is a major factor in our inflation rate. People have to pay far more than they should for many of the consumer goods. That is undeniable and has been pointed out by many economists over the years. The often used argument that high protection protects employment is under serious challenge- and by no less an authority than  Sir John  Crawford, one of Australia's greatest economists. 

 - Sir John Crawford. If the honourable senator has not heard of him, I will repeat his name-  Sir John  Crawford. He has been trusted by governments of all political - 
You keep out of it; I am not interested in what you have to say.  Sir John  Crawford has been trusted by governments from both political sides. He recently said: 
Protecting further the highly-protected industries is not going to provide the answer to unemployment. Australia's future well-being is a function not only of its own resources, but of its relations with the rest of the world. We cannot have major policies which are inward looking and expect the world to give us freer access to their markets. 
This is the argument that some of us on this side of the chamber have been using for years. I am pleased that in the Address-in-Reply debate and again today many of my colleagues have raised this important question. It is true that in the past the Tariff Board paid due regard in all its reports to these factors. If we go back as far as I can remember- I have spoken in this Parliament on this subject from 1965 onwards- and examine reports of the Tariff Board and the Industries Assistance Commission we will find that those reports have paid due regard to these factors. 
Consideration interrupted. 
I rise to speak very briefly to this legislation. I have a long record in this Parliament of speaking on matters which concern tariffs. I can go back as long ago as 1965 when I was extremely critical of the policies being followed by the then government in relation to the motor car industry. I think the effect of what I said then was that these policies would in the long term prove disastrous. They have proved disastrous. Today we are in a worse position with regard to our motor car industry than we were in 1965, which was bad enough. Our tariff policies in the main have encouraged the fragmentation of industry in Australia. There has been a failure by successive governments to face up to the economic facts of life. 
I do not think sales tax has much to do with it. There are factors far more important than sales tax. The policy of a 95 per cent Australian content in the highly protected motor car industry encouraged other sections of the motor car industry to get involved when in fact the throughput, as the then Tariff Board pointed out, could sustain only two major motor car manufacturers in Australia. Today we have a whole series of motor car manufacturers. Chrysler Australia Ltd is losing $2 7m a year and General Motors-Holden's Ltd is also losing money. What can be done about this disastrous situation? Is the industry to be given more protection which in the long term will mean disaster or will the industry face up to the realities of economic life? 
When I first heard of this legislation I must say I was suspicious about it because again there have been emotional and irrational attacks made by highly protected sections of Australian industry upon the recommendations- and I stress the words 'the recommendations'- of the Industries Assistance Commission. I do not need to remind honourable senators of the nature of these attacks. They are related, as speakers from both sides of the House have pointed out, to recommendations to the Government. It is the Government's decision as to whether it accepts, rejects or modifies them and the Government has to live with its decisions. 
As far back as 1 967  Sir Leslie  Melville, who was then the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, warned that Australia had to restructure its industries. In Australia there was a misallocation of scarce financial resources which were being encouraged by high protection into industries which had no long-term future instead of being encouraged into industries in Australia which had a long-term future. Successive governments ignored the recommendations all these years and today we have to face the facts of international trade. Lee Kuan Yew recently pointed out that countries which do not face the changing patterns of international trade will be left behind. I believe that we in Australia are in grave danger of being left behind. We are protecting industries which have no long-term future. I do not want to name these industries but there are sections of the textile industry- not all- the footwear industry and others which will continue to demand more protection in order to exist. 
The second factor I mention very briefly is that Australia's international relations today are the aggregate of our relations with countries. It is not just diplomacy- it is trade, it is economic, it is financial, it is resources and it is aid. We will be judged in the world by the sorts of policies we adopt in all these areas. If we think we can isolate ourselves from the changing patterns of international trade I suggest we are living in a fool's paradise and, even in the short term, we will be the losers. 
It has been suggested that industries will become more protected against competition from overseas. Mention was made tonight of cheap labour. Of course cheap labour conditions exist. However, many countries in Asia have met this problem. For example, Japan at one time was a cheap labour country. We all know that Japan was criticised as being a cheap labour country. Today Japan is not a cheap labour country. It is becoming a high labour cost country with a high labour cost economy. That country is facing up to the fact that it has to reconstruct its industries. It is phasing out its textile industry. It is also phasing out its shipbuilding industry which was one ofthe most efficient in the world. Japan is cutting back shipbuilding by 50 per cent because of competition from countries like Korea and Taiwan. It is simply facing up to the changing situations of international trade. 
My only reason for rising tonight is to say that the longer we delay the simple facts of economic life and the restructuring of Australian industry to meet the new international patterns of trade the more the economic development of this country will be delayed. We have always found excuses for delaying restructuring. Today the excuse is unemployment. Nobody is saying that restructuring should be completed overnight. Those of us who believe that restructuring is necessary all realise that it will not be done immediately. I believe that the countries belonging to the Association of South East Asian Nations, some of which are most critical of our trade policies, do not expect to see overnight the restructuring of Australian industry. They know it may be 10 years before it can be restructured but they want us at least to acknowledge that we have to do it and start to do it. At some time the sheer economic facts of life will force us to do it and the longer we delay it the more painful restructuring will be. 
If I do nothing else in rising tonight to speak on this legislation I will commend the IAC. I do not always agree with its recommendations but I commend its independence. This legislation may result in the IAC having to take regard of further matters. Let it take regard of those matters. But its independence and its right to recommend to governments the simple facts of economic life as it sees them should never be threatened. It is the Government's decision to accept, reject or modify those recommendations. It should not hide behind restrictions placed upon an independent authority. I well remember a series of letters tabled in this Parliament in the late 1960s between the then  Chairman  of the Tariff Board,  Mr Rattigan,  and the then Minister for Trade, John McEwen, who laid down certain conditions.  Mr Rattigan  demanded that those conditions be defined and spelt out. There was a long series of letters and finally  Mr Rattigan  won. The meaning of the conditions was spelt out. I hope that the IAC, if it has any doubt about the condtions laid down in this legislation, will insist that the Government spell out clearly what it means so that it is in no doubt as to the conditions under which it should operate. 
We cannot avoid much longer facing the economic facts of life. I do not think restructuring will be traumatic if it is done sensibly over a period. Industries in Australia which today are uneconomic but not necessarily inefficient except in the sense of world trading will have to be phased out. We should concentrate on those industries which can compete on world markets and there are many. Other countries have found that industries of high technology, which we have, can compete. The other day I was talking to a distinguished Korean. The Korean economy is one of the success stories of the world in recent years. It has been assisted by investment from Japan, the United States of America and other countries. The textile industry was a success in Korea. Now, because of higher labour costs, competition is increasing and it is more difficult for the industry to sell its goods on world markets. The Koreans are facing that fact and are starting to move away slightly from that industry, as the Japanese have done, and turn to industries which can compete. 
If we in Australia think we can insulate ourselves from these world patterns of trade we are living in a fool's paradise. Let us face the economic facts of life. It is no good for Australia to make bitter attacks upon the restrictive trade policies of other countries such as members of the European Economic Community. I am the first to admit that many of their policies are restrictive but unless our own house is put in order other countries will be able to point to the restrictive trade policies of Australia. Our own barganing position in world trade will increase if no one can point the finger at us and say that we are amongst the most restrictive trading countries in the world, as I believe we are. Not only do we impose tariffs, we also employ quotas and restrictions overnight without consultation with our trading partners. These cause more ill feeling amongst our trade partners than the imposition of tariffs which they understand because they are longer term measures. 
I am thinking particularly of the ASEAN countries. 
Yes, but why should we do it to them? If we do, our position is weakened. If we are to argue with other countries which mean a lot to us as a trading nation we have to have a clean nose. We do not have a clean nose. If we are to impose quotas and restrictions we should do so not overnight, but in consultation and with a clear understanding as to why we are doing so. If I were a lawyer I should say: "Here I rest my case.' The world is demanding liberalisation of trade. One of the great dangers we face today because of trade recessions is that countries are placing more restrictions on trade. They talk about liberalisation but they do damned little about it. If there is a world trade recession as there was in the 1930s it will be because countries place more and more restrictions on trade. We must face developing nations justly and rightly seeking a greater share of the world's resources. If countries such as Australia which is in every sense a developed and affluent nation do not practice what they preach the judgment on them will be deservedly harsh. 
-I enter this debate only because of the suggestion by  Senator Harradine-  or at least one could draw the inference from his remarks- that because the  chairman  is always a government appointee there would be a desire on his part, or on the part of government members, on the part of a majority of the committee, to protect the government. I have never known Senate Estimates committees to work that way. Certainly, I have always believed my role as a member- and  chairman  for many years- was not to protect the government at all- but to act as a parliamentarian to put the government, whatever might be its political complexion, under scrutiny. I think the record would show that government members ask as many questions, and pursue them, as do Opposition members. That misapprehension should be put right. Any implicationand I do not say that it has been deliberatethat the government-appointed  chairman  or members seek to protect the government is simply not true. 
Yes. I have always interpreted my role as  chairman  as one of ensuring that everybody asks questions, and pursues them. I believe this has always been the rule, even when we were on the Opposition side. Certainly, I never noticed on the part of the then Labor Government members any desire to protect their Minister or the Public Service. I wish to make brief reference to the statement  Senator Withers  made concerning the committees meeting earlier and looking at the types of questions or areas of interest that would arise, so that the various departments could be informed. That is one reason why we have requested that explanatory notes and estimates should be tabled immediately following the presentation of the Budget; that this would allow honourable senators plenty of time to go through the notes and then to meet and be able to pursue these matters. I know that we did have trouble, on several occasions when we introduced this system, because of almost last minute decisions and that our work was accordingly rushed forward. Therefore, I do hope that action will be taken on the recommendation of Estimates Committee A and that the notes be made available as soon as possible, and immediately following the tabling of the Budget Papers. 
-I am rather amazed at the Opposition raising this matter of public importance. One would have thought that such a matter of urgency would have been raised immediately the debate on the Address-in-Reply concluded, but it was not. Apparently the Opposition had something more urgent than this matter to raise. One wonders whether in the minds of honourable senators opposite it is in fact a matter of urgency or whether it is part of their domestic political in-fighting. Nothing indicates more clearly the bankruptcy of thinking of the Opposition than the bringing forward of this matter of public importance today. It is not an urgent matter. The events involved have long since passed. Despite  Senator Wriedt  's attempt to resurrect them and despite his historical dishonesty- I regret having to say this- the fact remains that the present Government has been the only honest government in dealing with the question of East Timor. I do not resile in any way from my position, which I have stated clearly in the past. I may have disagreed with the present Government, as I disagreed with the Labor Government; but I believe that the Government has faced up to the realities of the situation, as any government, including a Labor Government, would have. 
One wonders about  Senator Wriedt  's historical dishonesty. I remind him that in his remarks he did not refer back further than 13 December 1975. This issue arose at the latest in August 1975, when the Government of which he was a senior Minister was in office. We know of the allegations made- I put it no higher than that- by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  He claimed to be the greatest Foreign Minister Australia had ever had, which is a matter of argument. He is alleged to have assured  President  Suharto at Townsville in September 1975 that Australia clearly understood Indonesia's concern and claims over East Timor. That has never been denied. 
It has never been denied. 
Confirmed, maybe, but why does the Opposition not refer to what happened before December 1975. It has never been denied by  Mr Whitlam.  I cannot go beyond that. If he did make that statement, I am not criticising him for it. Indeed, I think he was probably right. That is my own personal view. I am criticising the Opposition. Whatever political in-fighting went on m the Caucus, East Timor was not a public issue in August, September, October or November 1975. It became an issue only when the Labor Party was returned to the Opposition benches. Let us hear the facts about the actions of this Government. 
I appreciate the interjection by my friend,  Senator Wheeldon.  No doubt he will speak in this debate with his tongue in his cheek. What are the facts? What does the Government say? 
-Senator Gietzelt is a gentleman who always criticises, attacks and abuses right wing generals of Indonesia. He is the senator who is very quiet about the generals of China and equally quiet about the atrocities in Vietnam. Significantly, he has never asked a question in this place about the atrocities in Cambodia. There are the world accepted atrocities in Cambodia where millions of people - 
You have never raised that matter. You have never asked questions about it. You have never moved a motion of urgency about it. 
You have. 
Yes, you have been the only one from the Opposition side of the chamber. I accept that  Senator Wheeldon  has done that and I give him full marks for it, but  Senator Gietzelt  has never done that. You have never raised the matter of Angola. 

 - Senator Gietzelt has never raised the question of Angola. This is hypocrisy. He condemns right wing generals and ignores the atrocities by Cuban mercenaries.  Senator Gietzelt  never condemns actions in Angola, Ethiopia, and elsewhere in Africa. I merely say these things in passing. Let us be clear about right wing generals in Indonesia and the alleged atrocities in East Timor which were mentioned by  Senator Wriedt.  Allegations are made with equal strength about atrocities committed by the Fretilin forces against their opponents at the time of the civil war. There has never been a word of condemnation about that. But what has been the action of the Government? The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has placed on record our feeling in regard to allegations of atrocities by Indonesian forces. He has said: ' We condemn atrocities by whichever side commits them '. That is not the one-sided condemnation given by  Senator Gietzelt.  So let us be clear about the situation and about  Senator Gietzelt  's attitude and who he condemns. He always condemns right wing governments, never atrocities by left wing governments. Human rights is the other issue. 
No,  Senator Gietzelt  would not know what I am talking about. I do not know whether he has a conscience, but if he has it should be a guilty one. 
Marxist dialectics covers all sins, as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack suggests. Let us get some facts straight. What did the Government say? 

 - Senator Gietzelt should know. On 14 February the Foreign Minister in explaining why the Government decided to accept East Timor as part of Indonesia referred to the facts as set out in his foreign affairs statement of 20 January and said: 
Indonesian administrative control or East Timor is effective and covers all major administrative centres of the territory. In order to pursue the objectives of family reunion and the rehabilitation of Timor, Australia will need to continue to deal directly with the Indonesian Government as the authority in effective control. 
Who else could we deal with to achieve these humanitarian objectives, except the government in effective control? That is realism. The Minister went on: 
The Government has not condoned the means by which East Timor has become a part of Indonesia. The Government remains firmly attached to the principles of nonaggression and self-determination. 
I shall come back to self-determination in a moment. The statement continues: 
It regrets that events in Timor took the course they did in August-December 1975 - 
That is when  Senator Gietzelt  's party was in government-  and that these principles could not be put into effect. Despite the positive efforts of Australia and others the United Nations has failed to carry international opinion sufficiently to have a decisive influence on the situation in East Timor. The Government's efforts and its strong criticisms of Indonesia 's actions are a matter of public record. 
Who will deny that the Australian Government alone in the Asian and Pacific regions has criticised and continues to criticise and oppose Indonesia's action. We have heard about the United Nations. Let us look at the countries in this region. The Association of South East Asian Nations with whom we have close relations did not oppose the Indonesian action. Japan and the United States did not oppose it, nor did the countries of Europe. Australia was one of the few countries which opposed that action. 
-The United Nations! Who controls the United Nations? We will look at the United Nations in a moment. Many of the communist countries in the United Nations have a record, in relation to self-determination and human rights which, to say the least, is murky. The fact is that very few of the major European, Asian and Pacific powers in the United Nations, as the Foreign Minister has said, opposed the Indonesian action. That is a fact of life. 
I suggest that  Senator Wheeldon  should get the voting lists and see who is right. It is the same Third World countries. It is the countries whose record in regard to selfdetermination and human rights is poor. If we have a look at who opposed Indonesia we find the double standards which  Senator Gietzelt  supports. He supports the principles which those nations support. I was amazed to hear  Senator Wriedt  speaking about self-determination.  His  Government gave de jure recognition to the Soviet Union over the Baltic states. Those states did not have the right of self-determination. I think my friend  Senator Wheeldon  was somewhat critical of that action in a debate in the Senate. I give him full marks for that.  His  Government recognised the sovereignty of the Soviet Union over the Baltic states. Those states were independent for centuries. They were taken over by force. What is this nonsense from the Opposition about self-determination and human rights? Those people were suppressed. Their leaders who opposed the Soviet Union are being gaoled, tortured and kept under the most inhuman circumstances. The Australian Labor Party, this great defender of human rights and self-determination, bowed to the Soviet Union and recognised its sovereignty over the Baltic states. 
Now we have it. This is a double standard. This is where  Senator Gietzelt  falls into the trap. He used the words 'effective control'. Of course it was effective control. The one difference in regard to the Baltic states was that for centuries they were independent. Timor was never an independent state. The Portuguese left in a hurry. One could argue that probably Portugal did not honour its obligations. It left Timor without a government, in a state of turmoil and civil war. It might be said that East Timor had no administrative and political structure. One might question whether it could ever have become an independent state. Economically, it was not viable. 
We look at Australia's national interest and we make a judgment on that matter. I make the judgment that our national interest is best served in the long term by Indonesian control, rather than control by somebody else whose attitude to us may well have been unfriendly. Idealism and morality are wonderful things in foreign policies. But in the long term, much as we might support idealism and morality, the realities of the situation are the final arbiter. The Government has taken a stand which alone in this region opposed the Indonesian take-over but it has finally accepted the fact, as the Foreign Minister has said, that despite morality and principles the realities of the situation are such that we can no longer ignore them. There are the humanitarian grounds. I must say that the Indonesian Government has agreed, following the presidential election, that an immigration team should go to East Timor to obtain the reunification of families. I think that is an humanitarian issue. If we took the Opposition line this great humanitarian issue would still be in abeyance. 
You keep quiet. We know  Senator Gietzelt  's attitude. He always follows the Marxist line and we know that. I appreciate his honesty in doing so. But he should not try to kid us that he does not do so. On the question of reality the Government is left with no choice. I suggest that had there been another government in Australia the same choice would eventually have been made in Australia 's national interest. 
I present the report and the transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Australia and the South Pacific. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator SIM (Western Australia)- by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The Committee during its deliberations on this reference has become aware of a transition in Australia's relations with the countries of the South Pacific. Before World War II Australia and other metropolitan powers performed administering functions in their respective South Pacific territories without any visible attitudes or programs aimed at change in the constitutional status of their territories. The post-war period heralded a change in the status of many South Pacific countries, and this process is still going on. As more South Pacific states become selfgoverning and independent the aspirations and expectations of their people change. As these countries have increasing contacts with countries outside their region so too, in turn, external countries become more aware of the South Pacific states, and relations develop. Far-reaching events and elements such as the 1973 petrol crisis, the 200-mile exclusive economic zones and the complex implications of the proposed new international economic order, make their impact in the South Pacific region and bring these states into greater involvement with the world community. 
It was pleasing for Committee members to note during this inquiry that Australia is in the process of developing a new awareness of the countries and peoples of the South Pacific region. At the official level contacts are growing, Australian diplomatic representation in the region is expanding and Australia's development assistance to the region has increased significantly. Australian business interests in the South Pacific are aware of the need to improve their image and are making efforts to that end, and contacts are increasing between Australian and South Pacific peoples at all levels of society. 
However, I hasten to add that while these developments are taking place and there is a genuine effort being made by Australia to be a good neighbour and member of the region, the task is far from complete and there are no grounds for complacency on our part, nor should we relax in our efforts to achieve better relations. Australia is a large and populous nation by South Pacific standards and therefore our role in the South Pacific should be such that we do not attempt to dominate, whether consciously or unwittingly, the affairs of these new and sensitive states in the region. Australia is a member of the region and in so being should maintain its efforts to assist its neighbours in the region in a genuine and sensitive manner to ensure the development of good relations and a harmonious region. 
This report deals with Australia's role in the South Pacific and therefore reflects what the Committee has been able to ascertain on Australia's performance as a member of the region. The Committee was unable to travel overseas, although I might add that three members of the Committee did have an opportunity to visit the region and have discussions with island leaders. Their impressions are reflected in the report, but because of the Committee's inability to travel overseas as a committee it was very aware of the danger of reflecting only comment and opinion gathered in Australia. It is important when conducting an inquiry into a subject such as Australia and the South Pacific that the views and comments expressed are balanced by contributions from Australians and people in South Pacific countries. Unfortunately, the Committee was not able to obtain sufficient evidence from South Pacific sources or to examine at first hand Australia's presence and the reaction to this presence in the South Pacfic region. The members of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence have welcomed the new initiatives by Australia to improve its image and they hope that its efforts and contributions are maintained with a genuine desire to be a worthwhile neighbour in the South Pacific region. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to a report that out of a European Economic Community beef quota of 140,000 tonnes annually Australia has provided less than 100,000 tonnes. Is this report correct? If so, what is the reason for the shortfall? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and I ask: What countries are mining and exporting uranium? What countries have known reserves of uranium but are not yet mining it? What safeguards are being imposed by countries at present exporting uranium? 
Pursuant to order, I present the report from Estimates 
Committee A on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Additional information forwarded to Estimates Committee A arising out of the Committee's deliberations will be incorporated in  Hansard  and will also be tabled in the Senate. 
I seek leave to table written replies received by Estimates Committee A since the Committee reported to the Senate on 1 1 May 1 978. 
Leave granted. 
I table the replies and seek leave to have them incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I ask: Has the Department of Transport received an incident report from the captain of flight QF7 concerning his experience in landing at Perth Airport on 17 March? If so, is it a fact that the main runway lights failed just prior to landing? Is it a fact that facilities do not exist in Penh to lay an emergency flare path? Is it a fact also that the main runway at Perth Airport is not equipped with an instrument landing system? Are there any other runways at major Australian airports not equipped with instrument landing systems? Are there any plans to install an instrument landing system on the main runway at Penh Airport? If so, when will work be completed? 
I ask my question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the question I asked him yesterday concerning an incident involving flight QF7 in Perth on 17 March. I ask the Minister whether it is a fact that the captain of flight QF7 requested that the Pearce Royal Australian Air Force base be contacted to arrange for an emergency landing and that this was done? Is it also a fact that when the civil air controllers attempted to contact the Pearce base to confirm levels of readiness the RAAF did not answer its telephone? 
-On behalf of Estimates Committee A I move: 
That the Committee of the Whole having considered the report of Estimates Committee A recommends that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations- 
The use made of funds approved by the Parliament for the Advance to the Minister for Finance. 
This motion arises out of the Committee's report to the Senate. In its report the Committee stated that it was disturbed by two matters which arose during the examination of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I think that either Estimates Committee C or Estimates Committee E also raised this same matter. In the first case the Committee was advised that the Foreign Affairs Department's bid for funds was $143,000 for representation at overseas conferences. This figure was subsequently reduced to $50,000 by the Department of Finance and included in Appropriation Bill (No. 3). Upon questioning by members of Estimates Committee A it was revealed that the dispute between the two departments had been removed from the Additional Estimates to another area, the Advance to the Treasurer. 
The second case also involved the Department of Foreign Affairs seeking the inclusion in the Additional Estimates of an amount of $24,000 for 'a new initiative', to establish a committee on Australia's relations with the Third World and to examine Australia's future relations with these Third World countries. The Committee was advised that the Department of Foreign Affairs had been advised by the Department of Finance that the amount was to come from the Advance to the Minister for Finance. The Committee in its report made reference to these two matters. 
The Committee draws the attention of the Committee of the Whole to the  Parliamentary Handbook on Commonwealth Financial Affairs,  published in March 1977, which was issued by the Department of Finance, in which it is stated that the Advance to the Minister for Finance is: 
. for urgent and unforeseen expenditures which arise between the time of preparation of Appropriation Bills No. 3 and No. 4 and the close of the financial year. 
The Committee reported that prima facie these appeared to be misuses of the funds approved by the Parliament for the Advance to the Minister for Finance. Accordingly, it recommends to the Committee of the Whole that the matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for inquiry and report. 
I am afraid I do not have any copies of it. 
by leave- I join  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Wheeldon  in paying tribute to the chairmanship of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack on the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I think that I probably served longer with him on that Committee than anyone else. In this sensitive area he has achieved a greater degree of bipartisanship, in the qualities which he has shown, in his moderation and in his courtesy, than one could ever hope to achieve. That the Committee has worked so well and so harmoniously is to the great credit of its  Chairman, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack.  Senator Wheeldon  referred to his strength in upholding the rights of Parliament. If he is remembered for nothing else in the Parliament, he will be remembered for that. There has been no greater supporter and defender of the rights of the Parliament over the executive than  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. When any dispute has arisen about the committees he has always strenuously and successfully upheld the rights of the Parliament. We will miss him greatly. We will miss not only his courtesy but also his great knowledge, great wisdom and, above all, great friendship. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As I understand it, it is not the intention of the Government to proceed with the fisheries legislation this session. I ask the Minister whether the Government is prepared to agree to joint venture proposals between Australian fishing interests and overseas interests pending the passing of the legislation. In view of the importance of this matter, if the Minister does not have a reply to give today, will he obtain one as soon as possible? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity either as Minister representing the Minister for Defence or Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports that Russia has reactivated the naval base at Kam Ranh near Vietnam. Has the Government any information which would confirm this report? 
These are important bills. I must say that I thought their importance was such that they should have been dealt with before the end of the last session of Parliament. Nearly all the countries, certainly those in the South Pacific region, have already declared the 200-mile fisheries zone. Any honourable senator who has bothered to look at the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the South Pacific will have seen a map which outlines the 200-mile zone. It shows that very few areas of the South Pacific are not within this zone. In a number of instances the zone overlaps another country's territory. The fishing zone is a step towards creating an exclusive economic zone, which has wider implications. It is a most complex matter and is still being discussed at the Law of the Sea Conference. 
This legislation has tremendous importance to Australia because at the moment Australia gains no benefit from the resources of its seas. Very little is known about the extent of the resources of the sea and what is known comes mainly as a result of the fishing activities beyond our 12-mile limit which are carried out by vessels of other countries. Certainly to the north of Western Australia the major research information is coming from the Taiwanese, who have been fishing in this area for many years. I am told by the Director of Fisheries in Western Australia that the Taiwanese are the only fishermen who share their research knowledge and that they share it very freely with Australia. That is not to say that we have not been neglectful. I think we have been neglectful. I think there is a great need for Australia to do far more research to ascertain the available resources in its seas. It is believed that the resources are not inexhaustible. Whilst they are vast, unless there is proper conservation we could in the years ahead find ourselves in serious trouble. 
Australia has received no benefit from the fishing activities which are carried on by foreign vessels off our coastline. This legislation gives us for the first time the opportunity to take advantage ofthe resources that are available. We have to face the fact that our knowledge is very limited. We do not have the ships or the expertise amongst our fishermen to tap these resources. It will be many years before these things are available to us. In the meantime there are tremendous opportunities for joint ventures between Austalian fishing interests and those of countries which in the true sense are not traditionally involved in fishing in our area but certainly have been fishing our waters for many years. Of these countries Taiwan is probably the most important. At any one time off the Western Australian coast there could be between 200 and 300 Taiwanese vessels. Other countries such as Korea, Japan and some European countries together with Russia are also interested in the resources of the sea. 
The main reason that I am speaking in this debate is to draw attention to the advantages that can accrue to Australia by these joint venture operations, which are of course within the guidelines which have been laid down by the Government. The one I have in mind which I think highlights these advantages is the proposed joint venture between M. G. Kailis Gulf Fisheries and Kaohsiung Commercial Fishing Guild of Taiwan. I cite this joint venture as an example because it is the only proposed one that I know about. I think it highlights the advantages that will accrue from joint ventures. Firstly, we will get licence fees. At the moment we do not. Secondly, there is the question of surveillance. It is difficult enough for us now to maintain surveillance over the 12-mile zone without having to control the 200-mile zone. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Metrics I should be saying the '320 kilometre zone'. 
I very briefly refer to this proposed joint venture to illustrate the advantages which can be gained. Firstly, in phase one of this proposed joint venture the Kaohsiung Commercial Fishing Guild has been authorised by the Government of Taiwan to control all Taiwanese vessels fishing in Australian waters. Any vessel which is not under the control of this company will not be allowed to fish in our waters. This to a great extent will help us in our problem of surveillance. We will not have to go around searching for poachers. The organisations involved in this joint venture will do the job for us and report to the Australian authorities or take action themselves. So from a surveillance point of view this type of joint venture is of course invaluable. It also provides an opportunity for the collection of economic and ecological data relating to the fish resources of the area which is a pan of the proposed joint venture. Despite the fact that already we get a great deal of information from the Taiwanese fishing fleet on the resources of the sea, we would under this proposed joint venture obtain a great deal more because Australians will be able to be with the fleet. More importantly, such a joint venture would provide tremendous employment opportunities for Australians and particularly the opportunity for members of the Australian fishing industry to gain expertise in new fields of fishing technology. 
It is proposed that eventually Australian  vesselswilltakeover.Imentionthetremendous  cost of these vessels and the expertise. It will be necessary to allow for a great deal of flexibility in any arrangements before Australia gains the expertise or the capital to construct its own ships. There is a tremendous paucity of the right type of vessel in Australia. This joint venture proposes that it will be at least five years before the question of the replacement of vessels is raised and that progressive, scheduled replacement will then be considered. This also applies to the progressive replacement of foreign crews by Australian crews as the expertise is gained. I particularly draw attention to the importance of phase two of this proposed joint venture. I think this is the important one for Australia. Honourable senators will realise that all the fish caught off our coast are taken by the Taiwanese, the Koreans or the Japanese and processed in their own countries. Australia gains no economic or financial advantage from that. 
Under phase two of this proposed joint venture the processing eventually would be done on shore in Australia. It means that the great bulk of the processed products would be exported from Australia, thus earning Australia export income. I point out that most of the fish that are being caught by foreign fishing vessels off our coast are not the types of fish which are eaten in Australia. Phase two also provides that ship repair facilities will be available on shore. These vessels would remain in Australian waters and they would not have to go on the dead haul back to Taiwan, Korea, Japan or any other country entering a joint venture. The maintenance and repair work would be done in Australia. It is confidently estimated that this proposed joint venutre alone will provide employment for up to 600 Australians in processing and ship repair work. Of course, this would cover a wide range of technicians and technical people. So we can see that it is open to Australia to take advantage of the opportunities provided by this legislation. 
Careful consideration should be given to this type of joint venture operation. As I said, it would provide a tremendous uplift to our export income. It would provide the expertise for Australian fishermen for the future and eventually it would assist our small shipbuilding industry to construct ships for fishing in these waters. I commend the Bill. Earlier I gave an example of its benefits. As I mentioned in my opening remarks, it does not mean that Australia itself should not do far more research into the resources of our own seas. The need for conservation of these resources is a tremendously important factor. We cannot decide upon conservation until we know what resources are there. 
Let me make one other brief reference so that there can be some discussion on it. I do not want to make an issue of it, but I draw the attention of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  to clause 25 of the Bill which, on proclamation of this legislation, will close off the Gulf of Carpentaria to foreign fishing. My understanding is that there is a large number of sharks in the Gulf of Carpentaria and that they are a menace to the prawn fishing industry. They make predatory attacks on the trawl pockets when they are full of prawns. Perhaps there would be some merit in granting some discretion to the Minister to enable these types of joint ventures, under control, to fish for sharks. It is a suggestion which I do not labour but which might well be given some consideration on the passing of this legislation. 
-in reply- For the second time I participate in this debate. I thank those speakers, particularly the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and  Senator Davidson  who have spoken tonight. I think the debate highlights the point made by  Senator Primmer  in relation to the need for reports from Senate committees to be debated as close to the time of presentation as possible and not, as sometimes happens, when events have overtaken recommendations of the reports. Today world international relations move very quickly and events can quickly catch up with and pass what is at the time the current assessment. It always seems a pity that we have to talk about reports which are three or four months oldsometimes when events have overtaken their recommendations. The debate highlights the urgent need for reports to be debated quickly after they have been presented. I think  Senator Sibraa  mentioned the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently gave a directive to Ministers that they must respond to parliamentary committee reports within six months of their presentation. Perhaps six months is a long time. Nevertheless, I think that is a forward development. Although this report was tabled before that directive was issued, I trust that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  will respond quickly to it. 
I pay tribute to the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. We operate in an area of sensitivity. At times there are party disagreements, as will always happen. But it is remarkable that all of the reports of this Committee since its formation in 1970 have been unanimous. This is because we as senators can sit down to examine the evidence impartially, talk about it, compromise where necessary and compile reports which, despite the difficulties, have been extremely substantial. That we can do this is indicative of the type of co-operation and understanding which we senators have with one another. I thank all members of the Committee, and  Senator Davidson,  who have spoken tonight. Indeed, they have left little for me to say because between them they have covered the report in considerable detail. 

 Senator Primmer and  Senator Mcintosh  referred to the problems committees such as the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee have because of their inability to travel.  Senator Primmer  referred to the lack of evidence that the Committee received from the South Pacific itself. This was not our fault. We wrote to a great number of people in the South Pacific to ask them to submit evidence to us. But because of, I suppose, their lack of confidence in some cases, their humility, we received little direct evidence except from two people who were temporarily resident in Australia. I pay a tribute to  Mr Sione  Tupouniua who is doing post graduate studies at the Australian National University and who is a lecturer at the South Pacific University in Suva. He was an adviser to the Committee. I am sure the Committee would wish me to say that his contribution and understanding were a tremendous help to us. We all formed a great friendship with and affection for him during our inquiry. 
We were fortunate to the extent that some members of the Committee had travelled in the South Pacific. Of course  Senator Knight  as a serving officer in the Department of Foreign Affairs had served there.  Senator Primmer  had visited the South Pacific and  Senator Mcintosh,  on his own initiative, visited the area. I had the opportunity to attend the South Pacific Conference in Pango Pango in September of last year and took the opportunity of visiting some of the countries of the South Pacific on my way. Of course this was invaluable. But I do not think it compensates for the inability of the Committee to travel as a committee and to talk as a committee to leaders and other people in the region. 
This matter has concerned us for a long time. It is about time that the Parliament controlled its own affairs in these matters. 
Having said that, because of the thoroughness with which this report has been debated I wish to comment on only a few matters. I draw the attention of the Senate to the explanatory note on page 1 of the report which was an important observation. It states: 
In this report the terms 'South Pacific countries', 'Islands' and 'Islanders' are used extensively. The use of this terminology is for literary convenience only and the Committee stresses that it has been very aware throughout the inquiry that the South Pacific consists of independent sovereign states, self-governing states and territories. There are ethnic, cultural, political, social and economic differences which distinguish these countries from one another and make them distinct. 
There is no intention on the part of the Committee to treat these countries as an entity. Although they share an oceanic region they are each a distinct entity within that region. 
It is important to understand that there is a growing sense of regionalism but it cannot be taken for granted. Many of the countries are mini states with populations of 2,000 or 3,000 people. There are states such as Fiji with 600,000 people. There are tremendous economic, social and ethnic differences among them which create problems within the region. It is important for the Committee to identify this and to draw attention to it. It is so easy to regard the region as one region containing one people; in fact they are not one people. This always will be a problem. 
Another point which has been referred to is the very sensitive position of Australia. I think it is true to say that the South Pacific to a large extent until about 1972 or 1973 had been an area neglected by Australia. This can be partly explained because the metropolitan powersFrance, the United Kingdom and the United States of America in particular- were the dominant powers in the region. It is an area of tremendous strategic importance to Australia. Perhaps we were rather slow to realise that this is a region of rapid change. The metropolitan powers began to move out as more and more countries- as I said, some only mini states- achieved independence. Australia had to realise that this was an area in which we were the largest single power. I suppose an analogy would be the position of Japan in South East Asia. There was a fear of Australian economic dominance and of big brother, which is real and which we have to understand and to appreciate. We have not always been sensitive enough in our relations with the South Pacific countries. I think we now understand the situation and our relations are becoming far more sensitive. Nevertheless the area poses a continuing challenge to Australia. We have vital interests there and Australia's association is becoming more and more highly regarded. We never want to appear to be trying to dominate the South Pacific countries. The Committee was conscious of this in its report. We did not want to appear to be using words that perhaps would indicate that we are looking at the South Pacific from the point of viewpoint of Australia and appearing the big brother. 
Perhaps there were statements which the Committee would have like to have made and perhaps should have made. They would have been misinterpreted in the sensitive sorts of relations which exist. Australia is playing a very significant part in the region. Australia, with all the independent states which are growing in the South Pacific, is a member of the South Pacific Forum. The future of the South Pacific Conference may be in question. There are areas of dispute between the powers and authority of the South Pacific Forum and the South Pacific Conference. Eventually they must work out these problems. Australia must not try to dominate. Any suggestion we make must be made in a sensitive manner. 
The Committee was conscious of these problems. So if at times we appeared to be ducking away a little bit it was because of our feeling that we had to be sensitive in what we said. Nevertheless, I think this is a valuable report. I think it was  Senator Sibraa  who drew attention to page 3 of the report where the Committee dealt with Australia's relations with South Pacific states. We are very conscious of the need to have an even-handed relationship with them. We detected a sensitivity in our relations with Papua New Guinea which might have been regarded by some of the states as being rather predominant. Papua New Guinea is one of the largest states. There is a sensitivity by the smaller states towards Papua New Guinea. They think Papua New Guinea as a major state in the South Pacific might try to dominate. Therefore our relations had to be carefully weighed and even-handed. We should not indicate that we have a closer relationship with Papua New Guinea despite the historical and other relations which we have. That might affect our relations with the smaller states in the region. 
The Committee was very aware of this situation and, I think, drew attention to it. We believed it was important to encourage and welcome further diplomatic representations from the region in Australia. We recommended that Australia should assist in the establishment of further diplomatic relations from the smaller states. We welcome the fact that we are increasing our diplomatic relations within the region and that we are opening up new posts. We think that this is not only desirable but also very important. I think it is important- again, this is mentioned on page 3 of the report- to bear in mind the points made that Australia, in increasing its efforts in the region, should broaden and develop its relations beyond economic and political areas. These relationships should be political, diplomatic, social, cultural and sporting. 
We in Australia, in partnership- 1 stress the word 'partnership'- with the South Pacific countries must work to promote more widespread and frequent exchanges between people at all levels- not only leaders- so that there is an increasing understanding between Australians and the people of the South Pacific. I make a brief reference to the Australian Development Assistance Bureau because it has been dealt with at some length. Reference was made to the fact that in 1976 the Minister for Foreign Affairs announced that Australia, over a period of three years, would provide $60m in assistance to the South Pacific region. In anybody's language that is a lot of money. The Committee was well aware of the problems involved. They are very fragile societies. 
We drew attention to the question of environment, urbanisation and health- I think  Senator Sibraa  referred to health- and to the problems which sudden economic development could have upon the very distinct cultures of these people. Therefore we welcome the clear understanding of the leaders of the South Pacific of the dangers involved in sudden change. Economic development itself is not necessarily the best if we are going to destroy the cultures and the traditions of these people in these very fragile societies. I think it is fair to say that we are well aware of this situation. Those responsible for our aid program are aware of it. They are well aware of the need of our development to be at the grass root level. As we all know there is always a danger with aid programs that perhaps those at the top are assisted and those at the grass roots are not. I was very pleased to hear  Senator Primmer  pay a tribute to our people involved. I think that without question they are aware of these problems. Overall there is a sensitivity in the development of our aid program and an understanding of the need to take into account the fact that we must not destroy that culture by our economic aid. Economic development by itself is not necessarily the end or the means to all happiness and satisfaction. 
There are only two or three other matters to which I shall refer. Before going on to them I point out that I noted  Senator Primmer  's closing remarks concerning the problems which ADAB has in regard to travel. That will be the subject of another report. Certainly there is a tremendous need for people who are responsible for the development of aid and for the supervision of it to have an understanding of the people and of the countries in which they operate. I believe that restriction upon travel is a false economy. It does not assist either those countries or Australia. We are well aware that many of these countries' administrative infrastructure is very weak. They require a lot of guidance and assistance in the administration of aid. Something like $7m over three years to a country like Tonga is a lot of money to a society such as that of Tonga. Tonga realises that administratively it not strong. Therefore for it to achieve the purpose which we hope it will achieve I think it is necessary that it is properly supervised and that guidance and support are given by Australian aid officers. I know that that guidance and support are welcome. 
In the past there has been some criticism of Australia's commercial operations. I think it is fair to say that this has been an area in which, in the past, we have earned the title of the 'Ugly Australian'. The Committee was pleased to note in the inquiry the attitude of Australian companies which are now involved. Some of them, like Burns Philp and Co. Ltd which has been in the area for many years, have freely admitted the mistakes of the past. At page 20 of the report Burns Philp, in relation to Australia 's commercial image in the region, stated: 
As an Australian commercial enterprise we must also accept criticism Tor what is largely termed 'Australia's economic dominance in the South Pacific' and accept that we and other Australian companies have not always favourably projected a good image or directed our activities to the overall benefit ofthe region. 
Burns Philp then proceeded to provide the Committee with information as to the amount of money that is being re-invested in the region for the benefit of the region; and as to the tremendous degree of localisation that has taken place in its operations there. In travelling in the region, and speaking to senior Ministers and officials, I noted that, despite their past criticisms, they now welcome countries such as Burns Philp, which they believe, having in mind the lack of expertise which exists locally, have gone as far with localisation as they can be expected to go. 
They also recognise, as we report on and recommend, that Australian companies should closely follow the guidelines for investment and commercial operations that are laid down by the countries of the region. We noted in the evidence that we received from Australian companies an understanding of the necessity for this and their desire to follow guidelines closely. I think that, despite the fact that there have been mistakes in the past Australian companies now operate within such guidelines and according to the wishes of the governments in the various countries concerned. As long as that happens, Australian investment is welcomed. I am bound to say that, despite past criticism of Australian commercial investment in the region, I found none during my visit. The countries realise that if they are to develop they must have investment; but they are conscious that it must be on lines that suit their aims, objectives and development. If the companies are not prepared to accept those guidelines, the Australian Government has a responsibility to see that they are not allowed to go to those countries, or they are told how they should behave. 
My last point is not dealt with at length in the report but is of importance for the future. I refer to Great Power relationships within the region. As more and more countries become dependent and become aware of the outside world, and as more and more of the countries of the outside world become aware of them, there must be changes. We should be eager to ensure that no Great Power rivalry exists in the region. We know that many Great Powers are interested in it. Fisheries constitute one element in which Japan, the Republic of Korea, the Russians and others are interested. It offers a tremendous potential for development. We all realise that there is tremendous advantage to these countries in the development of fishing through joint ventures, as long as those ventures are to their longterm advantage and do not involve competition one against the other. 
This is an area that may become sensitive for Australia. There is no doubt that, if this type of competition develops, the countries of the region may well be looking to Australia for advice and assistance on how to handle that kind of relationship. Already the Soviet Union is interested and has made advances to some of the countries of the South Pacific. The Chinese, of course, are interested too, if only for the reason that the Soviet Union is interested; the converse also applies. In time that in itself can create problems. The Japanese, for commercial reasons, are also interested and are giving these countries significant aid. They are interested in co-operating with such countries in the development of fisheries. As the operation of the 220-kilometre fisheries zone affects their traditional fishing areas in the north, they look more and more to developing fishing operations in southern waters. This creates problems for these small States in determining how to handle such situations and not be exploited by the larger powers. They have no great experience in that field. It is an area in which Australia may be asked to become involved in some way or another. 
The surveillance of their fishing grounds is another matter which can become very sensitive for Australia. There is no question that we could well become involved in trying to assist them in this matter. Thus, there are many areas in which Australia's relationships with the countries of the South Pacific will be growing and becoming more sensitive. We should be aware of that. We can never forget that these states more and more will become of interest to the Great Powers; that by some they may be regarded as being of strategic interest. Indeed, if one looks at the map one notes that they are of strategic importance. It is certainly in our interest to see that these states, whether the large states or the mini-states, develop their economies slowly; that their culture and traditions are not destroyed; that Australia becomes, in a true sense a partner in the region, not a country seeking dominance. Although our image has improved, we should be very well aware that mistakes on our part could destroy the image that has been developed over the last five or six years. It is an area of sensitivity. It is one that we have neglected in the past. It is one with which Australians should become more familiar. We should learn to understand more clearly the hopes and aspirations of these peoples. I think it was  Senator Primmer  who referred to their charm, their hospitality and their friendship. It is open to us if we react to it in the proper manner. 
In the report we have tried to spell out how Australian relationships should develop. Of our aid program we have no real criticism. We believe that it is being exercised with sensitivity, care and understanding, but we point out the dangers inherent in all of these programs unless we continue to be very careful in our relationships, and careful as to how they develop. 
I commend the report to honourable senators and once again would thank the members of my Committee for the hard work and understanding that they contributed to" it. The production of these reports is not always easy. We have developed on the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence an understanding, co-operation and friendship which does help in preparing such reports for the benefit, I trust, not only of the Parliament but also of many outside the Parliament, including people in other countries who perhaps read them more than they are read in Australia and who are more interested in them than is the case in Australia. I trust that such reports will give an understanding of what we are trying to achieve. They represent not an executive or a government view but more importantly a parliamentary view of foreign policy and of the way in which it should develop. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a recent report that the members of a congressional delegation from the United States of America which visited the People's Republic of China in July were informed that China now recognised the existing realities in regard to Taiwan. Has the Minister any information that will confirm this report? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, without notice, on 9 May 1978: 
1 ) What countries are mining and exporting uranium. 
What countries have known reserves of uranium but are not yet mining it. 
What safeguards are being imposed by countries at present exporting uranium. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister or as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a recent Government decision to impose further restrictions on certain imports from countries in the Association of South East Asian Nations and complaints from these countries at the failure of Australia to consult prior to the imposition of further trade restrictions. I ask: Did not the Australian Government give an undertaking in August 1977 at a meeting between the Prime Minister and ASEAN heads of government that consultative arrangements would be established for discussions on impending action by Australia against imports from these ASEAN states? Have not the ASEAN countries previously complained at the failure of the Australian Government to provide adequate warning of impending action? Can the Minister say how far discussions, both within Australia and between Australia and ASEAN countries, have developed to establish consultative arrangements and what are the factors preventing final agreement? In view of the Prime Minister's justifiable criticism of developed countries for their failure to provide greater access to their markets to the less developed countries does the action of the Australian Government measure up to these principles? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I refer to a recent report that Vietnamese and Laotian Government forces are using poison gas against the fiercely independent Meo tribesmen. This report came from a French doctor who, it is alleged, is treating these unfortunate people. It is also alleged that communist forces have destroyed the crops and livestock of these people and have poisoned their wells after artillery, aircraft and napalm had failed to subjugate them. Has the Government any confirmation of this report? If not, will the Minister seek to obtain the facts and report them to the Parliament? 
I wish to express my sympathy with the amendment moved by  Senator Townley  because I believe that what he hopes to achieve is desirable. I am not voting for the amendment, but I believe that I should express publicly my attitude to taxation legislation which has within it degrees of retrospectivity. Having done that, I would feel free in the future to take whatever action I decided to take. 
Let the honourable senator make a statement such as that when he is in government. I wish to declare my position instead of just sitting down. Honourable senators on the Opposition side only ever do what Caucus tells them. They would never stand up. 
I wish to make it quite clear to the Government that in future it must not take for granted my support for taxation legislation which has within it degrees of retrospectivity. 
I will make my own judgment, thanks very much. I believe that, despite denials, there is retrospectivity in this legislation. My concern is- I hope that the Government will still look at this matter- for those people who, through no conscious effort of their own, are being affected adversely.  Senator Townley, Senator Martin  and others gave instances. I want to give one instance. I will do it very quickly because of the time factor involved. It concerns a former officer of the Australian Taxation Office who was due to retire at the end of this year. Before his retirement he would have used up all of his accumulated leave. Because of ill health he had to retire earlier this year. In expectation of having a certain sum of money, he made certain financial commitments which, had he known that he was to be taxed not on the basis of 5 per cent but at the rate of 33te per cent, he would not have made.  His  action in retiring with accumulated leave was not a conscious one; it was forced upon him. 
I believe that there should be some degree of discretion- as much as the Senate has been opposed to giving Ministers or officers discretionary powers- in these genuine cases. Other cases have been given of people- many people- who, because of commitments to their employers, have not been able to take annual leave and have accumulated a quite significant amount of it. I believe that this legislation quite unfairly affects these people directly. I make a plea to the Government, even now, to look at how it can alleviate these unfair hardships which are being suffered by people. Let me make it clear, despite the scoffing of members of the Opposition, that in future- I hope the Government will note this- my support for legislation of this kind should not be taken for granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. The Minister will be aware that opponents of the use of nuclear power for the purpose of energy generation have alleged that nuclear power generation is more costly than power generated from conventional sources. Is the Minister aware that the latest annual report of the Atomic Energy Authority in the United Kingdom states that nuclear power stations generated electric power 35 per cent more cheaply than coal fired power stations and 50 per cent more cheaply than oil fired power stations, with 16 nuclear power stations providing more than 15 per cent of the United Kingdom's electric power needs? ls he also aware that as three new advanced technology power stations come into operation, this proportion will rise to 20 per cent? Is the Minister also aware that the Central Electricity Generating Board in the United Kingdom estimates that each of its new power stations will reduce the cost of overall electricity generation by about $2. 6m a week? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It follows a question I asked last week on the cost advantage of electric power produced from nuclear power stations in the United Kingdom in comparison with that produced from oil and coal. Will he obtain information on the cost of electricity produced from nuclear power compared with power produced from oil and coal in the following countries: The United States, Canada, countries of the European Economic Community, Sweden, the Soviet Union and the Eastern Bloc countries? What proportion of electric power needs are met from nuclear power stations in those countries? Would cost advantages for nuclear power, if they exist in these countries, also apply to Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Has the Government noted the comments contained in the Industries Assistance Commission's annual report, particularly the Commission's questioning of whether in fact high levels of protection protect employment and its statement that export and low cost industries are disadvantaged by high levels of protection, which also discourage innovation and specialisation? When can we expect the Government to respond to the challenge in the report? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to continuing reports from China of a growing wall poster campaign allegedly aimed against Chairman Hua Kuo-feng and supporting Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-ping. Has the Government any information to support reports that a power struggle is developing within the Chinese leadership or reports of growing instability within the leadership? 
I present the report and the transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Australian representation overseas- the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Throughout the last decade Australia has pursued a more vigorous and independent foreign policy than during the prior years. This development has come about through a combination of our efforts as an outward looking nation and the impact of international events on Australia. International affairs do not remain constant and changes occur rapidly, often with great significance to Australia, as current events in Iran and South East Asia demonstrate. 
Australia is no longer isolated or immune from international issues and just as our domestic and foreign policies are becoming more interdependent there is a growing interdependence between nations. No other country can serve Australia's interests overseas as well as we can ourselves, and to do so we must have resident Australian representation in the countries with which Australia has dealings. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs is responsible for providing the majority of Australia's representatives overseas. When the Committee was given this reference it was aware that the Department had been the subject or part of numerous inquiries during the past five years. However the Committee felt that it was important to examine how the Department is functioning and its ability to continue to do so under the staff ceilings and financial restraints that now exist. 
Briefly, I propose to example some of the Committee's findings which are of concern and which the Committee feels require attention: Staff ceilings were imposed on the Department and required the Department to redeploy staff resources. It has continued to carry out its functions but as responsibilities increase and staff resources are not available the Department will be forced to let some functional areas run down to meet urgent demands. Evidence of this occurring exists already. I draw the Senate's attention to the summary of conclusions and recommendations on page 3 where the Committee states: 
The Committee is dissatisfied with the arbitrary manner in which staff ceilings have been imposed on the Department. There appears to have been little consultation or examination of what repercussions these rulings have on staff and the organisation's ability to continue operating effectively. Staff reductions, financial restraints and a slowdown in promotion prospects have affected morale among officers of the Public Service generally and the Department of Foreign Affairs has not remained immune from the slump in morale. 
Other adverse features have developed in the Department (retrenchments in overseas locally engaged staff ranks) and as a consequence Australia's image, particularly as an employer overseas, has suffered. Functional areas suffer from staff shortages, the implementation of Australia's development assistance program is impaired, training, particularly in languages, is restricted and the dissemination of Australian publicity and information material is affected. The maintenance of existing residential and office properties overseas and the acquisition of additional properties has been neglected, the introduction of security precautions is too slow and there are aspects of conditions of service in need of review. These are examples of deficiencies which are beyond the control of the Department of Foreign Affairs alone to remedy. They require recognition and corrective action by the Government in co-operation with the appropriate regulatory authorities, and the Committee strongly emphasises that the Government should acknowledge this obligation. 
The Committee draws particular attention to the following: 
The resources of the Policy Planning Section in the Department have been depleted to cover commitments in newer areas such as the Nuclear Division. This relocation of staff has serious implications for the Department's capacity to define and plan future foreign policy initiatives and priorities and consequently for its policy planning advice to the Government. Demands on the Department's services are growing in complexity and scope and if the forward planning capacity of the organisation cannot function fully, its capability to respond is impaired. New organisations such as the Office of National Assessments require particular reporting from posts and its requirements for a specialised service will grow as it becomes fully operational, adding additional strains on the Department's resources. 
Recruitment to the Foreign Affairs Office category, ceased for some two years. It has now resumed but the gap could have repercussions in future years. Recruitment should be undertaken annually, as continuity and stability in a career service is vital to the Department. The incorporation of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau into the Department has created some problems, and there are issues between the Department and the Bureau which must be resolved to ensure that the effective implementation of the development assistance program is not impaired. 
The consular and administrative career structure in the Department requires review. This is an increasingly important aspect of the Departments work, and careers in this field should be such as to retain experienced staff and to attract talented people. The Committee notes that the predicted growth in the number of Australians travelling abroad will produce greater demands for Australian consular services and, as a consequence, the Committee recommends that the Department should give a high priority to developing consular training courses and training consular officers to improve the capability to meet forecast demands. I refer to locally engaged staff overseas. They were used through wastage and retrenchment to meet departmental staff ceilings. The Committee reports that this action caused hardship and damage to Australia's image as an employer overseas. Attention must be given to correcting this unfortunate situation. 
Commonwealth owned property overseas has been neglected for the sake of short term economies. Construction has declined, acquisitions stopped for two years, and maintenance of existing properties has been limited through a shortage of funds. Urgent attention must be given to these matters to avoid an accumulation of expense in the near future and a declining standard of living for representatives overseas. Again I draw attention to the Committee's comments on page 65 of its report, where it states:  lt is apparent that in the past three years there are aspects of Australian overseas property management which have been neglected. The Committee is not critical of the work of the Overseas Operations Branch. It operates under severe financial limitations and as an organisation has undergone five transfers between departments as well as three physical relocations. The Committee believes that Governments have not acted responsibly by adopting a shortsighted attitude to the funding of overseas property maintenance and the acquisition of new properties. 
The result has been spiralling leasing costs . . . delays in future works programs, higher market prices for the reintroduced but modest acquisition plans, deteriorating property, added expenses for essential maintenance and a decline in living standards for officers and dependants occupying the affected properties. 
The security of Australian offices and residences is not receiving the priority and resources it deserves. Security cannot be absolute but sufficient resources must be made available to protect staff and their dependants as effectively as possible. Conditions of service must be kept under constant review to ensure that staff serving overseas are not disadvantaged. The response to rapidly changing conditions overseas has to be quicker and the regulatory authorities concerned will need to give priority to adapting to these changes. 
It became evident during the inquiry that Australia has an effective overseas service which also has the respect of diplomatic representatives from other countries. Its professional skills and integrity have been noted. The service can be improved, and the Committees received evidence that steps are being taken to improve it. Australia's growing international involvement will place greater demands on the Department of Foreign Affairs, and the Committee considers it important that the Government acknowledges this and ensures that the Department has the resources necessary to perform its functions efficiently and effectively. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence: Australia and ASEAN. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. I refer to the misunderstandings that used to occur between Australian and Japanese businessmen due to a difference in the nature of contracts and in contract law in each country. This matter was referred to in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in 1973. Has the AustraliaJapan Law Foundation been successful in removing these misunderstandings, or most of them? If so, has the removal of misunderstandings facilitated recent negotiations between Australian mining companies and Japanese business interests? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise what progress has been made in the long drawn out negotiations between Australian and foreign fishing interests on a joint venture in Australia? When can we expect the applications already made to be approved? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I remind him that last week I asked a question concerning the progress in proposals for joint fishing ventures between Australian and foreign fishing interests upon the declaration of the 320-kilometre fishery zone. With respect, through no fault of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, the reply I received failed to answer my question. I now ask: At what stage are the long drawn out negotiations between M. G. Kailis Gulf Fisheries Ry Ltd and the Kaoshung Commercial Fishing Guild of Taiwan? When can we expect a decision on the joint venture proposals? 
I think this is a significant motion. It was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  with the full approval of the Government. I support the comments made by the Leader of the Opposition, my colleague  Senator Missen  and  Senator Wheeldon.  The execution of  Mr Bhutto  was an horrendous act. Honourable senators do not lightly pass judgment on the governments or actions of other countries. I met  Mr Bhutto  in 1966 when he was the Foreign Minister of Pakistan. I do not know whether any other members of this Parliament met him. He impressed me as a man of tremendous intellectual capacity. As  Senator Wheeldon  rightly commented, he was a mixture between the West and the East, like  Mr Nehru.  Whatever the alleged crimes may have been, the execution of a political opponent of the Government after a division in the High Court of Pakistan of four to three, where three justices made a plea for clemency, was horrendous. The whole of the Western World, the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations, many countries of the Islamic world and the People's Republic of China all made pleas for clemency. China may be tainted because it executes its political opponents. These were ignored by the  President  of Pakistan. Whatever the crimes of this man may or may not have been- and we cannot sit in judgment- the execution fills all of us with horror today. I join with the Senate in a bipartisan attitude in condemning the actions of the Government of Pakistan. 
The execution goes beyond the security of Pakistan. Pakistan is of tremendous importance to the world. Nobody can judge the effects of the execution.  Mr Bhutto,  rightly, had tremendous support and his family has tremendous support amongst a great section of the people of Pakistan. Because of this action which horrifies us all Pakistan's stability may well be at stake. I cannot believe that the Government of Pakistan was not aware of this. Consequently the security of our region could be put in jeopardy. 
I applaud  Senator Wriedt  's moderate terms in moving this motion. I have pleasure in supporting them in expressing my horror at the events that have taken place. In particular we must look at the future to see what effects this action will have. I find it hard to believe that the leaders of Pakistan were not aware of what this action could well bring. It is difficult to understand the motives behind the decision. It may be fear that if  Mr Bhutto  were not executed he would live on and be a symbol. I wonder whether that was the right judgment?  Mr Bhutto  is now a martyr but his family lives on. The Bhutto family is a family of significance and could well become a rallying point for dissent in Pakistan. This may bring instability to Australia. Pakistan was brought up under British law and traditions, which it followed for many years. Now these seem to have been overthrown for something which I do not understand and which I do not think anybody in this place understands. 
I could speak further on this matter. I join with those who have spoken in expressing in this Senate our horror at what has happened and our fear of what may well happen. Today  Senator Wheeldon  spoke of the growing tendency towards judicial murder or murder by terrorists as in the case of the distinguished member of the House of Commons. To me it is all the same regardless of whether it is cloaked in a judicial atmosphere of a government of the day, in Iran or Pakistan, or a terrorist killing of a member of the House of Commons. The growth of political terror in the world seems to be one of the most horrifying elements of our present society. The Government of Pakistan, by giving it judicial authority, has encouraged the growth not only of judicial terror but also of actions carried out by terrorists with no judicial authority. I join with  Senator Wriedt, Senator Missen  and  Senator Wheeldon  and others who will speak to this motion in expressing my horror at and opposition to the execution of a very distinguished man. Whatever his faults or values may have been we should all deplore and condemn this execution. 

 -Mr President, I was in my office obtaining a copy of the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs when that report was presented. I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I would like to make a few brief comments regarding the report and relate it briefly to the report of Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on overseas representation, Department of Foreign Affairs. I hope that shortly an opportunity will be given to the Senate to debate the latter report so that my colleagues on the Committee can discuss important aspects of it. A brief examination of the annual report of the Department highlights the wide ranging issues which today affect Australian foreign policy. These include multilateral co-operation, nuclear issues and arms control. They not only affect foreign policy but also have a direct effect upon defence policy. Also dealt with are economic affairs, and aid. This highlights the fact that today foreign policy is more complex than it has ever been; that it encompasses not just simple political issues but the whole range of a nation's relationships with other countries. It encompasses political, economic, trade, aid and cultural relations, investment and finance. Of course, any of these issues can have a grave effect upon our foreign policy relations. 
From a quick perusal of the report, the Department has pointed out the wide-ranging issues that affect foreign policy and those in which it is involved. Australia is a significant middle power and therefore does have some influence, especially in the region in which we live. I am not sure that as yet we have clearly defined our interests. There is still some confusion as to the priorities we should set for our foreign policy. One matter that is highlighted and dealt with in our report concerns the complexity of our relationships and the effect that policies other than political policies have on those relationships. For example, our economic policies and trade policies are major factors in our relations with many countries. These policies are highlighted in our deteriorating relations with the Association of South-East Asian Nations where trade policies are a major consideration. 
The issue of air fares- a matter of relative unimportance- has caused a serious deterioration in our relations with the ASEAN countries, not necessarily because of the issue itself, but because of the insensitivity and incompetence with which it has been handled. This simply highlights the care that must be taken and the co-ordination that is necessary between Government departments handling these issues and their relationship to our foreign policy. The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in its report dealt with the normal way of dealing with interdepartmental arrangements- by the setting up of interdepartmental committees. Quite frankly, we could find no other way to handle the matter than by this arrangement. In discussions with heads of mission from other countries, I have found that they have the same problem we have. However, the setting up of an interdepartmental committee does not appear to be a completely satisfactory way of handling these issues. The Committee made some criticism of the Department of Foreign Affairs because very often when these issues come before an interdepartmental committee all the members of the committee seem to seek the lowest common denominator, that is, a consensus of agreement, which saves the Ministers and. the Cabinet making hard decisions. There was a feeling in the Committee, and I think it is brought out in the report, that when issues of paramount foreign policy importance are concerned- and many such issues are concerned- the Department of Foreign Affairs should be prepared to go out on its own and produce a minority report pointing out - 
It should bite the bullet, as  Senator Mulvihill  suggests. It should point out to the Government the serious political implications of these issues to Australia's foreign relations. The air fare issue is one case in point. I think that in a number of submissions going back to August of last year the Foreign Affairs Department pointed out the serious political implications involved in this matter. This highlights the point which we make in our report and which is brought out in the Department of Foreign Affairs annual report about the multiplicity of issues which now affect our foreign relations. We do not know the answer to the interdepartmental issues involved. But there are obviously departments which have a different attitude to trade policies from that of the Department of Foreign Affairs which, quite naturally, probably does not see the political implications of trade policies. Until we can find a system whereby these issues and their effect upon our foreign relations are all considered, the issues we face today- issues of trade and its effect on our political relations and the effect of such relatively unimportant issues as air fares- will all have an effect on our relations with those countries with which we should have close and co-operative arrangements. 
Mention is made in the report of the growing number of Australians who are travelling overseas and the tremendous growth in responsibility placed on our consular service. The Committee in its report dealt at some length with the development of our consular service and of a career pattern within the service. It stated that we should seek people of the highest calibre to conduct the day to day dealings with Australians, not only those who are seeking advice but also those who are in trouble. Regrettably, more and more Australians seem to be finding themselves in the hands of the law in foreign countries. It was mentioned the other day that approximately 120 Australians were either in gaol or facing charges, mainly for drug offences, in foreign countries. The Department of Foreign Affairs has again issued a warning that it can do very little to help those people and that they are subject to the laws of the countries which these people are alleged to have breached. Nevertheless, this is placing an increasing strain upon our consular service. 
The report points out the tremendous increase in the responsibilities of and the load factor on our consular service. The Committee dealt with this at some length in its report. Not only did it point out the need for a clear career pattern to encourage officers of the best type to join the consular service but also the need to give them a career structure with which they can see some future. The Department in its evidence pointed out that it is well aware of those needs and, indeed, was introducing appropriate provisions into the Department's structure. The other factor to consider is that in many countries where Australia did not have consular services we were represented by the Foreign Ministry of the United Kingdom. Very justifiably, that country is showing a reluctance now to carry out this service because of its own problems. I think it is inevitable as more Australians travel- with cheaper air fares even more people will travel- to all parts of the world, there will be a need to protect and to give help to our citizens thus leading to a considerable increase in the size of our consular service. 
I would like to refer to the question of recruitment of which some mention is made in the annual report. Perhaps at another time I will deal with it more fully. The Committee was critical of the Government's policy in regard to the problems of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Department is facing an increasingly heavy load of responsibility due to Government policies and staff ceilings. It is now facing a very real problem redeploying its resources to carry out the functions demanded by the Government. It may be true that like many other departments, at one time it carried some fat. But that fat is long gone and there is a need for continuing recruitment in the Department. Recruitment was suspended for some two years. This year the Department has a very modest intake of 12 recruits. There is a tremendous gap between the various levels of the Department. Many young officers are caught below the more senior officers and have nowhere to go. Therefore, a question of morale is involved. To a great extent, that is a management problem within the Department of which it is aware and which, I think, it will try to handle. There is no doubt that a very sound reason exists for the Department of Foreign Affairs to have a modest increase in staff numbers to handle the increasingly complex problems that it is facing. 
The Committee found that we have a Department of high professional skill and of high integrity. As we mentioned in the report, this was brought to our attention by heads of mission from other countries whose opinions we sought. Without question they all referred to their respect for our foreign service both at home and abroad and for its professional skills and its integrity. It is a responsibility of this Parliament to an extent to ensure that those skills and integrity are maintained and that we maintain a foreign service which represents Australia well and of which Australia can be proud. I believe that we can be proud of our foreign service. It has its faults like all foreign services and all government departments. But it is aware of them. I think that in the report which we tabled a few weeks ago we highlighted some of the problems which we see in the Department. I think that in its annual report, the Department refers to our report and gives close attention to these matters. I speak briefly on these matters because I do not think that a report of a department of state with the responsibilities, which the Department of Foreign Affairs has, should go without comment in the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government any confirmation of reports published today that Vietnam intends to expel its entire ethnic Chinese population? It is estimated that l.S million people could be expected to descend on neighbouring countries. If the report is correct, will the Government in concert with all interested governments bring whatever pressure it can on the Vietnamese authorities to try to prevent this callous, inhuman and dangerous action? 
I wish to direct my remarks to the appropriation for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In doing so I support the comments of my colleague in another place, the honourable member for Perth,  Mr McLean,  when he spoke last Thursday on Supply Bill (No. 1). He was critical of comments made by a Western Australian Minister regarding the Vietnamese refugee situation. I say firstly that I believe the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has handled this extremely difficult and sensitive situation with great sensitivity and compassion. I regret it when responsible Ministers make comments such as were made in Western Australia- that the refugee situation is out of control and that we should prevent these unfortunate people from landing in Australia. I regret this for two reasons. Firstly, it appeals to the racist and bigoted element of the community in Australia. 
I said 'a Minister'. Just leave me to make my own speech. 
I will make my speech in my own way. 
No, I said a Minister in Western Australia. As I said, I regret the statement for two reasons. Firstly it gives encouragement to that bigoted and racist group, that small element we have in Australia, to continue its campaign. Secondly, it plays upon the fears and possibly the natural concern of many people in Australia regarding refugees generally. It shows a complete lack of compassion. I do not know what we are expected to do. It was not spelt out whether we should shoot them, sink their boats or mine the entrances to Australia. It seems to me to be a statement more calculated to gain support from racist sections of the community, than to be responsible. I believe we should put this matter in its proper perspective. To claim that the refugee situation is out of control because 2,000 boat people have arrived here since 1 975 seems to me to be a gross distortion of the truth. We must realise that in one day in Hong Kong 3,000 boat people arrived and 2,000 arrived on other days. We must consider the situation in Thailand where tens of thousands of refugees have crossed the border in one day, or in Malaysia where people have been arriving in their thousands. 
The situation we face with refugees from Indochina, I think, is horrifying, when it is realised that the number of deaths of people escapingfor whatever reason- is as high as 250,000. Some estimates put the figure of those lost at sea at more than 50 per cent. If that is true it is really a horrifying story and one which should have the compassion of each and every one of us. The fact that these people are prepared to leave, for whatever reason, shows the depth of their despair. They are prepared to risk not only the elements, oceans and seas, but also the activities of pirates and others. I am afraid this situation is approaching a new and worse dimension. 
If the present stories of the pressures that will be brought to bear on 1.5 million ethnic Chinese are true they show a degree of racism and inhumanity of which we should take note. This problem will not be solved by a few countries. Australia has a responsibility as a member of the international community to do what it can to help. Our record so far has been a good one that we should not be ashamed of. It is quite obvious that Australia will have to take a greater share of these unfortunate people. I believe that in time they will become very good citizens of Australia. It is a global problem. The Australian Government and other governments in the region have expressed disappointment that so few countries in the world have been prepared to face up to any sense of responsibility as members of the international community. I hope that other countries will show a greater sense of responsibility as members of the international community and help in some way to solve this problem. 
If we believe that we are hard done by, because we have accepted some 2,000 people over the last three years, we should look at the situation in Thailand where the camps now have more than 160,000 refugees and where the situation is becoming worse every day because of the events in Kampuchea. We should look at the situation in Malaysia which is being swamped with these people. Other countries in South East Asia are under extreme pressure. The life of people in these camps should not cause any of us satisfaction but should fill our hearts with a great deal of compassion. It has been said by some critics that we should put more diplomatic pressure on the Government of Vietnam. We have done that. Australia, in concert with many other countries has tried to put diplomatic pressure on Vietnam at least to try to get a situation in which there is an orderly movement of people out of Vietnam. We have received assurances from responsible Ministers in Vietnam that they will do this. I am afraid that we must regard these assurances with some scepticism if the reports that we read are true. 
I trust that Australia, to the limit of its capacity, will continue to take these Vietnamese people even if it causes us some inconvenience. The inconvenience caused to us is far less, and we are more able to bear it, than that caused to countries such as Hong Kong in close proximity to Vietnam. I welcome the offer made by the Government of Indonesia with the support of the other countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations and Australia to make available an island for the temporary settlement of these refugees. In one sense, this may stop the pressure caused by the arrival of boat people. We should be prepared to do everything in our power to solve this problem. I support  Mr McLean  and express my regret that a Minister in Western Australia should make these comments which I believe do not help to solve this difficult problem. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to reported evidence by Commander Travers to the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs that whilst passenger traffic had increased at Perth airport, the detection of drug offenders had not. Commander Travers commented that staff might not be as thorough as they should be, but more staff and better facilities were part of the solution to the problem. I ask the Minister for an assurance that Commander Travers 's evidence will be noted and that steps will be taken to improve facilities at Perth airport. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to a report that Bradmill Industries Ltd is taking a commercial risk by engaging in a $30m modernisation program based on the assumption- according to the chief executive of Bradmill- that no government will substantially reduce protection of the textile industry by 1980 which is the end of the three-year protection guarantee period? Has the Government advised the textile industry to rationalise its operations during the grace period? Will the Government make it clear to the industry that no special consideration will be given to sections of the textile industry which gamble on the prediction that the Government will not act to reduce protection in this highly protected industry? 
I took the opportunity when the Department of Foreign Affairs report was tabled in the last sessional period to speak on some of the major elements of that report in case we did not get an opportunity to debate it later. I hope that we are going to establish again in this Parliament the system we had in 1 973 and 1 974, when time was provided each week for the Senate to debate the reports of Senate committees while they were still hot off the Press. To debate those reports six or eight months later is unfortunate, to say the least. I thank my colleagues on the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for their co-operation and for the work which went into this report. I think it is a very important report. 
As my colleagues who spoke earlier said, the Department of Foreign Affairs is a major policy 
Department involved with the security of the nation. After all, our foreign policy is concerned with the security of the nation. In this report the Committee has made some disturbing points. One relates to the criticism that is sometimes levelled against the Department for not coming forward with policy ideas. When officers of the Department are engaged fully on the day-to-day operations of the Department, dealing with the day-to-day events in the world, unless a special group is charged with responsibility for developing future policies, for thinking well ahead about events which are likely to occur and the policy responses we should make, it is very difficult for officers to drop what they are doing to deal with these issues. Some years ago a branch was established in the Department to do just that, but because of staff ceilings and the new responsibilities that have been placed upon the Department by Government decisions the branch has been denuded of officers and now consists of only two or three people. It is impossible for officers to pay attention to these issues unless they are given the time and the responsibility to do so. The Committee was critical of this and, as I recall, recommended that the group should be re-established so that governments could be warned of events that might occur and advised on the types of responses we should give to them. We should not be forced to make ad hoc responses because matters have not been thought out previously. 
I comment again on the matter of security, which was referred to by  Senator Sibraa.  In this ever-menacing world, I believe that far greater attention must be given to the security of our posts. Of course, we cannot guarantee 100 per cent security anywhere, but one of our missions abroad has a security office which is so designed that the security officers cannot see the front door. Any would-be terrorist would be inside the building before they even knew he was there. That is an architectural problem, but the officers who are charged with responsibility for ensuring the security of our posts should have been in a position in the early days to give advice. At another very important post in a European country a number of staff are sitting out in the open and the security officers cannot see where those people are sitting. There are entrances all over the place where people can enter the building freely. These are problems of design, but those responsible for security should have a far greater input in the design of existing and future buildings to ensure that as far as humanly possible the officers of the Department, whether they are locally engaged or Australian-based officers, have all the security possible. I thank my colleague  Senator Primmer,  the  Deputy Chairman,  and all my colleagues on the Committee who joined with me in presenting this report for the contribution they have made tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I take this opportunity afforded by the Budget debate to address myself to an issue which has tremendous implications for Australia. It is the issue of trade and industry development. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has on recent occasions addressed himself to this problem at international forums, at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and at Lusaka. I applaud his advocacy of trade liberalisation and his attacks upon trends and growing trends towards protectionism amongst the industrialised countries of the world of which Australia is one. I believe that trade can be safely said to be a, if not the, major determinant in our political relations, particularly within our own region where so many of the Third World countries belong. It is, of course, a major issue in the north-south dialogue. The problems of economic management which Budgets tend to focus on, such as the balance between revenue and expenditure, are essentially short-term problems. The overall health of the economy depends both on our response to these issues and our management of longer-term issues, such as trade and industry development. The two sets of issues do, in fact, interact. The sustained health of the economy depends on enlightened and mutually compatible responses by governments to both. 
The difficulties now being experienced by developed economies and the trends in international trade since the onset of the world-wide recession in 1974 suggest that Australia's economic well-being in the future depends increasingly on how governments respond to the medium and longer-term challenges, especially those posed by world trade and industry developments. Those elements of economic management concerned with generating long-term growth as distinct from how the benefits of growth are distributed will, I suggest, become more and more crucial to our future well-being. That is the matter which I am concerned with tonight. Our future is increasingly and inextricably linked with developments in the Asian region. It is a region which contains the largest concentration of population in the world, and has the potential to develop into the world 's largest trading bloc and market by the end of the century. Indeed many people speak of the next century as being the Pacific century. 
The rapid industrialisation now occurring in the Asian region is underscored by high rates of growth in both population and labour force, 2 to 3 per cent a year for most Asian countries since 1950. The abundance of cheap but unskilled labour gives these countries in the early stages of industrialisation a clear comparative advantage in areas of manufacturing which are labour intensive, which employ readily available standard technologies and which require labour with little or no skills or formal training. The developing countries in the region have exploited this comparative advantage by basing the initial thrust of their industrial development on export oriented, labour intensive manufacturing activities. Clothing, textiles, footwear and standard technology white goods are the main examples. These developments have been facilitated by the relative ease with which standard technology and capital can be transferred internationally including transfers by multi-national corporations seeking quite legitimately to tap the benefits of a cheap labour supply and by the relatively modest capital outlay required to establish such industries. 
These developments suggest that the future emphasis in our relations with Asian countries will be increasingly on questions of economic development and trade rather than ideological and political issues. In fact, there is evidence in the last two or three years of increasing concern about economic issues, particularly trade in Australia's relations with Asian countries. For Australia these developments present both problems and opportunities. As the process of industrialisation now under way in Asian countries increases in pace and diversity, as it surely must in the next decade, pressures will mount on our high cost, labour intensive industries, such as the manufacture of clothing, textiles, footwear and the standard technology white goods to which I have already referred. These pressures will make even more urgent the need for Australia to adjust its international structure to changes in the world trading environment, an adjustment process which is now widely recognised as having been inhibited by past protection policies which have tended to shield highly protected import competing industries from the uncomfortable truths emerging from changes in international trade. 
The problems of adjustment in our domestic economy, whilst not insignificant, must be weighed against the benefits that would result from our participation in the expansion of trade within the Asian region. Rising incomes and living standards in developing Asian countries which result from the industrialisation now taking place there will generate new export markets in basic materials, intermediate goods and final consumption goods. Because of our geographic situation, natural resources and technological skills, Australia is uniquely placed to capture a significant share of these new and growing Asian markets. The potential benefits to Australia that would flow from closer integration with developments in the Australian region include a surge in economic growth, improved living standards and sustained prosperity. 
Like most vast Western economies, Australia has reached a post-industrial stage of development. A recent study by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has demonstrated that trade-induced growth in Western countries depends increasingly on expanding their exports to developing Third World countries, but Australia cannot expect to expand its exports to Asian countries indefinitely unless it also accepts imports from those countries. Whether or not Australia benefits from the opportunity to participate in the fruits of ecomnomic growth associated with industrialisation in the Asian region will depend on our willingness to harmonise our industrial development and trade with that of the region as a whole. This implies a need for quite profound changes in the thrust of Australia's trade and industrial policies. In particular, it highlights a need to better harmonise Australia's protection, trade and foreign policies. 
Recent studies by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade organisation have shown that since the onset of the world-wide recession in 1974 a substantial and increasing part of the growth that has occurred in international trade has been between developed and developing countries. As a result, there is continuing to emerge a greater interdependence between the economies of developed and developing nations. The implications of trade and protection issues for Australia's relations with developing Asia, and what these imply for Australia's future policy options, need to be considered in the context of this increasing interdependence and trade between developing and developed countries. 
Within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Kennedy Round and associated international meetings led to significant general reductions in barriers to international trade. The important national initiative in this context was the introduction by advanced countries, including Australia, of a system of preferential tariffs under which imports from developing countries are admitted at a preferential, or lower, tariff rate. That was reflected in the general rate imposed by the importing, developed countries. This is commonly referred to as the developing countries preference scheme. However, international accord on this issue was heavily qualified from the outset by an agreement on special exceptions in the case of socalled sensitive items- to which I have previously referred- which, by arrangement between affected countries, were to be subject to voluntary restraints on imports. 
The response by many developed countries, including Australia, to increasing import competition associated with this trend in world trade has been to increase further the barriers to trade in sensitive products- such as clothing, footwear and textiles, to which I have referred- by placing quota restrictions on imports of these products from developing countries and progressively to extend these restrictions to other goods which hitherto have been subject to developing country preference. Because these restraints in trade have been directed mainly at the labour intensive, low technology products which generally have provided the initial impetus for industrialisation in developing countries, the efforts of these countries to improve economic growth and living standards have been frustrated. I draw the attention of the Senate to a report, published in the  Australian  of 23 August, headed 'IMF hits out at Australia'. Although it might not do our souls good, it is useful occasionally to see ourselves as others see us, even if the facts are uncomfortable. The article states: 
The International Monetary Fund has cited more than 20 examples of how Australia has acted against foreign imports in the past year. 
In an annual report on exchange arrangements, the IMF warns that protectionism is stifling world economic growth and it notes in detail Australia 's trade record. 
The report demonstrates how the Australian Government in the past 12 months has initiated and extended duties, tariffs and controls on products ranging from galvanised steel to double-edged safety razor blades. 
In its assessment of the 134 member countries, only the U.S., India, Pakistan and Columbia made more adjustments and instituted more rules on Trade than Australia in the period under review. 
In the cases of Pakistan and India, many of these changes were due to a liberalisation in trade policy. The US figure reflected the rising sentiment for protectionism in the country. 
The IMF says of changes it attributed by name to the US, EEC and Canada, and, by implication, Australia: 'The widening application by many developed countries of the various forms of import restraint mentioned is a matter for serious concern'. 
The report, titled: 'Annual report: exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions 1979', makes mention particularly of Australia's move in the middle of last year to impose quantitative restrictions on imports of sheets and plates of steel and specified iron and steel products as well as on worsted yarns '. 
The only favourable mention that Australia receives in this context is for its lifting of restrictions on non-resident investment in fixed-interest securities. The article continues: 
Under the heading 'Changes during 1978', the IMF lists nearly two full pages of detail on Australia's shifting trade policies. 
Of the 37 measures detailed, only four or five could positively be identified as being aimed not at limiting imports, but to increasing access to local markets . . . 
These responses to trade pressures originating from developing countries have had adverse political and economic consequences for developed countries, including Australia. Firstly, understandably, they have tended to sour relations with the developing countries. For instance, consider the widely publicised complaints of countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations in recent years about restrictions imposed by Australia on their exports of footwear, clothing, textiles and white goods. These countries can take little comfort from statements made on behalf of developed countries about improved trading opportunities and economic co-operation when such measures as the developing countries preference scheme are abrogated whenever the cold winds of competition are felt by our high cost, labour intensive industries. Such responses begin to question the credibility- I suggest also the sincerity- of Australia's internationally stated concern to improve reciprocal trade relations with developing Asian countries and invite retaliation against its exports. Indeed, I have stated publicly on a number of occasions recently that rhetoric in support of trade liberalisation not matched by performance can now be positively harmful to Australia's interests. Australia has now to put its money where its mouth is. 
I express my disappointment at the Government's decision not to proceed to implement the more forward-looking recommendations of the Crawford report. The unfortunate decision to defer the implementation of these recommendations will be interpreted in an adverse way by developing countries and will affect Australia's credibility, especially in its own region. It will lend support to the reported comment by Herman Kahn, the American futurologist, that no country talks more about the need to restructure industry than Australia and does so little about it. 
Secondly, as demonstrated in a recent Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development study, which I recommend to honourable senators, dealing with the impact of newly industrialised countries on world trade, barriers to traditional exports of developing countries result in a more rapid diversification of the industrial base of these countries. The study has shown that manufactured exports from developing countries to advanced industrial countries have grown substantially despite increased trade barriers against sensitive products. The study attributes this overall growth in manufactured exports by Third World countries to their ability to diversify their industrial base and thus the range of their manufactured exports to non-traditional products which are subject to no or fewer trade restrictions by advanced industrial countries. It was concluded in paragraph 21 on page 11 of the report: 
The impressive overall export performance of several newly industrialised countries resulted from a combination of strong comparative advantage and of export promotion policies aimed at exploiting the openings offered by trade liberalisation while overcoming or by-passing continuing or newly created trade barriers. 
The selective erection and expansion of trade barriers against traditional manufacturers, that is, low technology, labour intensive products from developing countries- has potentially serious implications for industry policy in advanced countries, including Australia, at a time when it is recognised that structural adjustment pressures are already creating serious difficulties for domestic economic management. By encouraging developing countries to diversify more quickly- I stress the words 'more quickly'- the range of their manufactured exports in the less traditional and as yet less protected areas and so by-pass these barriers trade pressures are being exerted over a wide range of the manufacturing base in advanced industrial countries more quickly than would normally occur. In effect, the sequence of industrialisation in the Third World and the resulting changes and patterns of world trade seem to be running ahead of what normally would have occurred under conditions of fewer trade barriers where the patterns of exports and imports would have more closely approximated the naturally involved patterns of comparative advantage. As a result, the less heavily protected areas of Australian manufacturing have had transferred to them the trade pressures that would normally have been limited to the more highly protected labour intensive industries which are less suited to Australia. 
These developments have occurred at a time when the Asian countries are in a dynamic stage of development, are still exploiting their comparative advantage in world production and trade and are capitalising on whatever new opportunities for entry into world market trade become available to them. The barriers being erected against their traditional exports are hastening and influencing the normal processes of industrial development in those countries. Our choice about whether to integrate our trade and industry policies with developments in the region as a whole is therefore becoming one of increasing urgency for our less highly protected, more internationally competitive manufacturing industries. The longer our decision is delayed the more our manufacturing industries will be disadvantaged by the distortions now being built into our trade with the region. I refer to a recent speech by  Mr Robert  McNamara,  President  of the World Bank, in his address to the fifth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Manila in May of this year. In relation to the costs of protection, he said: 
The resort to protectionism may be a politically attractive choice- particularly in the face of difficult structural problems- but it is almost always a poor choice. 
The motivation of a developed nation in extending protection is, of course, to save specific industries or sectors or regions from incurring detrimental economic and human costs. But what is often overlooked is that this does not protect the society from incurring equally real and larger costs in the long run. 
On this point it is worth noting the comments of the Industries Assistance Commission in the recently released draft report on textiles, clothing and footwear. The IAC estimates that the costs to the consumer of maintaining each employee in the industries under reference are as follows: $2,900 for the textile industry; $7,000 for the clothing industry and about $5,000 for the footwear industry. The cost to consumers, calculated using ex-factory prices for domestic production and landed duty free prices for imports in 1976-77, is estimated to be $2 10m for textiles, $730m for clothing and $ 125m for footwear. The total annual cost to consumers has been estimated at just over $925m or $200 per household. 
If the honourable senator reads the report he will see that what I am talking about is not a loss to the cost of wages. If the honourable senator wants to continue protecting highly inefficient and high cost industries, he had better start calculating the cost to Australia in the long term. On the supposed benefits of protectionist measures to workers, it is worth turning again to  Mr McNamara  's comments. He says: 
What advocates of protectionism neglect to say is that the present jobs of these workers may not be saved even under protection. The fact is that protection is often utilised- to the ultimate disappointment of the trade unions that ask for it- as a means of allowing industry to "adjust' by automating low skilled jobs out of existence, using the assured higher prices to pay for labour-displacing machinery. 
There is evidence of this phenomenon occurring in Australia, despite continuing high levels of protection. The IAC's draft report on textiles, clothing and footwear states: 
Employment in the industries, including sections of the textile industry not under reference, declined by 11,600 males and 29,000 females from June 1 974 to June 1 978. This is a total reduction of 26 per cent on the 1974 employment level. 
That answers  Senator Watson's  question. On the cost of protectionism,  Mr McNamara  said: 
The real choice offered by the protectionists is for society to pay higher prices and transfer income from its more productive citizens, probably on a permanent basis, while at the same time hurting their own consumers, tying up resources in low priority uses, and adversely affecting exporting industries, as well as those industries depending on cheap imports. 
In fact, what we are doing with protectionist policies is adding to the cost burdens of our exporting industries, including farming and other primary production, making Australian producers less competitive in overseas markets. Commenting on the rationale behind protection,  Mr McNamara  made the following observation: 
Despite the heavy costs of growing protectionism to the industrial countries, the political battle against protectionist pressures is often very difficult. It is difficult because the temporary losers from trade liberalisation are visible and vocal - 
How we know that- 
Whereas those who gain are generally dispersed and disorganised. Thousands of housewives spread over a whole country often have less voice than a textile worker with a job at stake. But in the long run what is really at stake is not just cheaper shoes, clothes, and bedspreads, but the jobs and living standards of the whole population. 
I will not comment further on the report to which I have referred, but I suggest that the statement by  Mr McNamara  ought to be listened to, if not heeded. We have simultaneously given developing Asian countries preferred access to our market for manufactures generally, as I have said, but limited their access to our markets for low technology labour-intensive products. As a result, both Australia and its trading partners in the region, but especially Australia, have been disadvantaged in terms of trade and economic growth. By increasing protection for industries that are unsuited to Australia we have denied Australian consumers access to cheaper basic consumer goods while developing countries in general have received preferred access to our market for manufactures. This has occurred in a way which has limited greatly their ability to exploit their comparative advantage in labourintensive low technology production. There has therefore been a loss to both trading partners. In addition, those manufacturing industries in Australia which are more suited to our resource endowments have been subject to greater structural pressures as a result of the conflict in our response to trade with developing Asian countries. 
It is now a widely accepted principle of sound industrial policy, espoused not only by economists but by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the Australian Government in its White Paper, that industry policy should respond more to the changes occurring in international trade and rely less on government intervention and support. The Australian Government's White Paper embraces the principle that industries which require high levels of support from taxpayers through subsidies and bounties or from consumers through tariffs should not be encouraged. Yet the practised response of successive Australian governments where high cost labour-intensive industries such as clothing, footwear and textiles face increased import competition has been to raise trade barriers and thus close out external competition. This is a contradiction and sits uncomfortably with the general principles embraced by the White Paper. The implications of that contradiction have not been lost on our Association of South East Asian Nations neighbours. 
It must be obvious to them, as it is to informed policy analysts in GATT, the OECD and in Australia, that these high cost industries can be sustained in developed economies only with ever-increasing levels of protection and everincreasing costs to the community. From an Asian viewpoint, our policy towards such industries is seen to be mutually detrimental. It thwarts their opportunities to promote industrial growth, based on exports of labour-intensive products, and denies Australians access to less costly products, thus reducing in real terms the income available for Australians to spend on other forms of consumption, to save or to invest. 
That is what we are going to finish up with. The honourable senator should wait until 1 finish. If we wish to develop an industry structure consistent with the national interest and in harmony with economic developments elsewhere in our region, we cannot continue to pursue industry policies which, no matter how appropriate they might have been in the 1950s, are not appropriate to the circumstances that will be facing Australia in the 1980s. The circumstances of the 1980s will involve - 
The honourable senator can either forget about the 1950s in the 1980s or he can stay where he is. The circumstances of the 1980s will involve the further growth of exportbased labour-intensive manufacturing industries in developing countries, particularly in the Asian region. They constitute a change in our trading environment with which Australian industry must learn to live in the years ahead. This change is not unique to Australia, of course. Other developing countries are also finding their labour-intensive industries exposed to increasing competition from low cost developing countries. This world-wide trend confirms that low-skill labour-intensive import-competing industries are unsuited to high income industrially advanced countries. While our experience is similar to that of other industrially advanced countries, the implications are more important in Australia's case. The erection of trade barriers against imports from ASEAN nations is not only inimical to our own economic welfare, but also it highlights to those nations the conflict between our trade and foreign policies. For instance, in the first half of 1977 the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd indicated that it had in prospect a decision to reduce by 2,000 its labour force at Port Kembla because of the poor demand for iron and steel in both domestic and export markets. At the same time, the Philippines Government through its central bank had taken action which effectively halved imports of Australian steel in retaliation against Australia's imposition of import quotas on textiles and knitwear of Philippines origin. This example of beggar my neighbour policies demonstrates the relationship between jobs in the textile and clothing industries and jobs in the steel industry. Jobs in one industry are protected at the expense of creating unemployment in another, and there are many recent examples of this. Given the potential size of the markets which developing Asian countries constitute, the scope for generating Australian employment for exports to those markets must exceed by very many times the Australian jobs that might be put at risk in our low technology labour-intensive industries which, as I have indicated from the IAC report, are in any case rapidly declining in the labour population force. 
Come on! The honourable senator should wake up to himself. As a result of fostering a future exchange of trade between Australia and developing Asian countries, based on each trading partner concentrating on what it produces best, what it does best, and importing from the others what they do best, some idea of the scope which exists for a mutual increase in trade between Australia and the ASEAN countries and the Asian-Pacific region in general, is provided by the fact that in 1975 Australia supplied less than 4 per cent of total ASEAN imports, and 75 per cent of those were manufactured imports, or exports from Australia. In the same year, the ASEAN countries supplied 3.8 per cent of total Australian imports. 
The policy of fostering industries which are unsuited to the Australian environment is not only inimical to the development of such a trading relationship but is also exposing a widening credibility gap between our trade and foreign policies. It is detrimental to the development of a co-operative relationship with other countries in our region, which is essential if we are to have a meaning and identity in the Asian region. I conclude by quoting the last two paragraphs of an editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of 17 July 1979. After being critical, I suspect, of a decision to defer consideration of the Crawford recommendations- this is what I have been saying- the editorial went on: 
At the same time, it will encourage the newly developing countries to take a path which offers a really serious threat to us, namely the by-passing of the labour-intensive, relatively low technology industries which we are so attached to in favour of the high technology, more capital-intensive industries. 
By the time the Australian Government gets around to taking a serious look at trade liberalisation, which it so lightly proposes to postpone to the mid-80s, it could well be too late. We could be locked into a downward spiral of declining productivity, increasing disadvantage with respect to the industries in which we should be efficient, and declining relative living standards. 
Indeed, the 'poor white trash ' of the region. 
All of us share the most tremendous sympathy for the suffering of the people of Kampuchea. I acknowledge and recognise-  (Quorum formed).  I just draw attention to the fact that, when  Senator Walsh  drew attention to the state of the House, there were only four Labor Party senators present. 

 - Senator Coleman was not in the chamber. We are discussing a matter of urgency brought forward by the Labor Party. One would have thought that Labor Party senators would have placed great store on it. As I was saying, we all acknowledge with sympathy the sufferings of the people of Kampuchea and, indeed, the sufferings of the people of Vietnam and people in other parts of the world. I might add that in the private conversations I have had with my friend and colleague  Senator Mcintosh  he has shown a tremendously sympathetic attitude towards this problem, and I think that he would acknowledge that I have shown the same sympathy and understanding. 
The motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  is an extraordinary one. First of all, it takes the Government to task for its failure to adopt an even-handed approach. I have always regarded the expression 'evenhanded' as a most extraordinary one. To my knowledge no one has ever defined what is meant by 'even-handed'. The Opposition takes the Government to task because we still support the Pol Pot regime. My colleague  Senator Knight  interjected and drew attention- I am amazed at the ignorance of  Senator Wriedt  who is the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs- to the fact that  Senator Wriedt  does not understand the difference between support and recognition. Recognition does not in any sense imply support. We recognised the horrendous government of Idi Amin. If we are to base our support upon the policies pursued and the lack of humanity shown, there would be many governments in the world, including some major powers, which we would not recognise. Recognition does not imply support. That is a very well known principle of international relations. 
As a shadow Minister he apparently does not even understand that.  Senator Wriedt  referred to the United Nations. 
I will make my own speech; you can make yours,  Senator Chipp.  If you want to disagree with what I am saying, you can do so. 
That is a different principle altogether, if I may say so. I do not want to argue about Red China at the moment,  Senator Chipp. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  I suggest that  Senator Sim  directs his remarks through the Chair. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I accept that admonition. If we are to argue on principles, we will get ourselves into all sorts of problems. I say with respect that  Senator Chipp  will get into the same sorts of problems; perhaps he will have more problems than we do.  Senator Wriedt  referred to the United Nations vote which was taken in recent days. It is interesting to note that 71 countries accepted that the Pol Pot regime should still be recognised. Thirty-five countries voted against that proposition, and there were 34 abstentions. We should note in our own national interests- this is what foreign policy is about- that many of the countries which voted for that motion are countries which are vital and crucial to our security. For example, this is a very delicate and sensitive issue amongst the Association of South East Asian Nations which are the countries most directly affected by events in Indo-China. They still vote for the recognition of the Pol Pot regime, although they condemn, as we condemn, the horrendous nature of that regime. 
We should also look at the countries which recognise the Heng Samrin regime. They are an interesting group of countries- I will list them in a moment- compared with the countries which still maintain recognition of the Pol Pot regime. There is Vietnam, as one would expect, Laos, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics- one would expect that- the German Democratic Republic, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Mongolia, Cuba, the People's Democratic Republic of the Yemen, Ethiopia, Angola, Afghanistan, the People's Republic of the Congo, Libya, Mozambique, Hungary, Grenada, Nicaragua and the Seychelles. They are the only countries which recognise the Heng Samrin regime as the government of Kampuchea. I hope that it is not being suggested that Australia should include itself amongst those countries rather than amongst the countries which still maintain recognition of the Pol Pot government. 

 Senator Wriedt did not explain what he means, what the resolution means or what the Labor Party means by an even-handed approach. Did he mean that withdrawing recognition from the Pol Pot regime and not recognising either of the regimes are even-handed actions? What would that achieve in practical terms? Surely, if we were sincere in relation to the second part of the motion we would hope to achieve something practical. By recognising neither regime, we achieve nothing. Let us look at the history of this matter. I say with respect that  Senator Wriedt  's speech was quite irrelevant to the motion. He gave us an interesting historical dissertation of the history of events in Indo-China but this had little directly to do with this motion. 
The Australian Government continues to recognise the Pol Pot Government of so-called democratic Kampuchea because at the time when Australia recognised it that Government satisfied the general internationally accepted criteria of recognition. The Heng Samrin regime was installed as a result of the Vietnamese armed intervention in Kampuchea. It does not satisfy internationally accepted criteria of recognition. One could deal with the principles which are laid down as the internationally accepted criteria of recognition, but I will not bore the Senate with that. 
If the Vietnamese withdrew from Kampuchea tomorrow the present Heng Samrin regime would not have effective control of the country. It is most probable that the regime would collapse. With all other countries in the region, we have condemned Vietnamese aggression against the legitimate government of Kampuchea, as much as we deplore it and oppose it. Although this has not been suggested by  Senator Wriedt,  the transference of recognition from the Pol Pot regime to the Heng Samrin regime of course, would be tantamount to recognising that armed intervention, if successful, can be achieved with impunity and internationally recognised with impunity. 
I acknowledge that  Senator Wriedt  did not say that but I am just making the statement. Before coming to the second part of the motion, let me say that Australia's interests are maintained, as I mentioned previously, by associating ourselves with the general attitude adopted by the ASEAN countries which are in the most delicate and sensitive position. For Australia to take a different attitude from that of the ASEAN countries would be an act of absolute stupidity. What is the situation? With great respect to the Opposition I think its matter of urgency is based upon ignorance. Australia, of all the powers, has been the quickest off the mark in offering food aid to Kampuchea. I would be interested to know whether any other country has offered the type of aid which Australia recently sent, that is, some 3,500 tonnes of rice. 
I just referred to ignorance. Because of the Australian offer of rice which will be leaving Geelong in a week or two the World Food Program has immediately released 1,000 tonnes of rice from Thailand. I say that with respect to  Senator Coleman;  I am sorry I referred to her ignorance. Because of the Australian offer food aid is being made immediately available long before the arrival of our contribution. 
It is often said that we should use diplomatic means to cut diplomatic red tape. But what are the facts? As much as we deplore them, the facts are very real. We cannot carry on direct negotiations with the Heng Samrin regime. We do not recognise it. It will not carry out direct negotiations with us. We would like to cut diplomatic red tape. It is easy to say such things, but it is a jolly sight more difficult to do them. If we could, it would be one means of achieving our objective. There are no direct means of communication with the regime. 
If we look at the facts we find that in Kampuchea there is only the International Red Cross and the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund. The regime has been allowing approximately only one plane a week into Phnom Penh to unload food supplies. About 40 tons a week is allowed into Phnom Penh. The reasons are fairly obvious. There are approximately only three people from international relief agencies on the ground. That is all that the regime will allow. There is no fuel. There are no unloading facilities. Aircraft must keep their engines running, otherwise they stay there. The obstacles in the way of providing by air the massive amount of aid which is essential make this almost impossible of achievement. These are the facts of life, much as we may deplore them. We cannot ignore them. It is as simple as that. Indeed, success will depend eventually upon the co-operation of other countries, including the Soviet Union, which has the greatest influence in Vietnam. At the moment it is not providing any assistance towards supplying the massive food aid that is needed. 
There is always the question as to where the food already going there is going. Is it going to the starving people of Kampuchea or to the Vietnamese army? We do not know. No one knows. There are distribution problems within the country. The whole infrastructure has been destroyed, as I think  Senator Wriedt  has mentioned. The whole distribution problem is immense. There needs to be on the ground people who can assist. They are just not there. Three people simply cannot do it. There is a complete lack of co-operation by the regime in Phnom Penh. We must acknowledge that fact. This poses tremendous problems in the provision of aid. 
There is also the problem of providing aid across the Thai border. This does not meet with the approval of the Heng Samrin regime. It is suspected- we do not know whether it is truethat many of these people are Pol Pot supporters. The regime wishes to cut off all food aid to such people, give them nothing but provide it for those whom it believes it can control. Questions of international relations with the regime arise if food is continued to be supplied across the border to people whom it regards as its enemies. Yet it is being done. It would be no handicap to us to do it. Indeed, I believe that we are now providing food across the border to these dreadfully unfortunate people. 
The best way in which to provide aid is through the recognised international agencies, International Red Cross, UNICEF and these other agencies which have no political axe to grind and cannot be regarded as politically suspect. Yet not even they are allowed to work within Phnom Penh and Kampuchea. I repeat, there has been little or no co-operation from the Heng Samrin regime. Therefore, it is completely unfair, almost irresponsible, to blame the 
Government for what is happening. I repeat that, of the significant powers, we were the first to offer substantial aid. I do not say this in any boastful sense. I think it is probably deplorable that the major powers, which in many cases are in a better position to bring pressure to bear, have not done what Australia has done. We need not hang our heads in shame, as the motion would imply. The Government has made it quite clear that if there is to be an international appeal for relief it will play a major part. Such an appeal must be organised to ensure that the people who are affected will be helped; that the aid will go to them and not to others. We should be aware of the cost of this. A massive relief operation will be required. We are talking not of peanuts but of sums amounting to  $200 m  at least. It will be a massive operation. Already the Australian Government has indicated its willingness to make a significant contribution to any international appeal. 
It should be acknowledged now that whatever we try to do will be affected by reports of Vietnamese military action against the remnants of the Pol Pot regime. The latest reports suggest that between 150,000 and 200,000 Vietnamese troops are poised to carry out what they hope will be the last action to destroy the Pol Pot regime. Given that type of situation, I ask quite simply: How, in those areas, can we help the poor, suffering, innocent people who are the victims of the conflict? It will be a major military operation. 
I will not remind the honourable senator of a speech that he made more recently than 12 years ago. He should look it up one day. I do not renege on anything that I said 12 years ago. Other issues are involved, but let us not go into that now. I wish to draw attention to the problem that confronts us today. Before one condemns Australia one should consider the massive problems that will arise in the coming weeks because of the impending Vietnamese offensive. I would be very interested to know how one is to overcome them unless there is the full co-operation of the Vietnamese authorities in Kampuchea to assist the poor, starving people for whom I believe we all feel tremendous sympathy in their suffering.  (Quorum formed). 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question which refers to reports of large scale Chinese troop movements on the Laotian border. Has the Government any confirmation of those reports? If so, will the Government make the strongest representations to the parties concerned to exercise restraint, as any further military adventures in Indo-China would have grave implications for the security and stability of the region? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing either the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs or the Minister for Trade and Resources. Has the Minister seen the reported comments of  Mr John  Nott, Secretary of State for Trade for the United Kingdom, that 'Australian trade barriers could inhibit plans for Perth to become a service centre of the oil and gas exploration industry in South East Asia'? Further,  Mr Nott  said that Australian tariffs of up to 40 per cent have handicapped the establishment of local industry which is competing against relatively free trade areas such as Singapore, and that high tariffs increase costs, limit choice, and can lead to retaliation. Will the Government take note of  Mr Nott's  comments and recognise that the maintenance of high levels of protection for sections of Australian industry are self-defeating and damaging to Australia 's economic development? 
I think that  Senator Tate  has delivered a very interesting and learned speech on this subject. He laid great stress upon the basic human right of people to travel, which has been recognised and acknowledged by the responsible Minister. I acknowledge that that is a terribly important element in this legislation. The Bill before us proposes a number of significant amendments and additions to the Passports Act 1938. The Opposition has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading to which  Senator Tate  addressed his remarks. It concerns the fact that the place of birth should be disclosed on the passport of an applicant only if he so elects. I will come back to that point a little later. 
I think this legislation results from a statement on consular matters made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on 26 May 1978. In the second reading speech on this Bill of the Minister for Education  (Senator 
Carrick), the Minister foreshadowed amendments to the Passport Act. He drew attention to the legislation governing the issue of passports, which has not been changed to any significant degree for some 40 years. Since that time there have been tremendous changes in the patterns of travel of Australians. In those days of slow journeys by ships relatively few Australians travelled overseas. Today travel is open to many hundreds of thousands of Australians who travel regularly to countries within our region and elsewhere. It is interesting to note that the Minister mentioned that, I think, some one thousand passports are issued every month. That indicates that roughly 400,000 Australians are obtaining passports every year. 
Was it a thousand a day? I am sorry, my mathematics are a bit astray. I was not using my calculator. I accept the correction. The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, in its report- I think  Senator Knight  referred to that report and I have no doubt that my colleague,  Senator Sibraa,  referred to it also- drew attention to the need for us to strengthen our consular service because of the great increase in travel. That increase has created new problems for Australian missions overseas. 
We all know of the unfortunate fact that, because of the tremendous increase in travel and the availability of travel to so many people now, more and more Australians are getting into difficulties of one sort or another and the consular services overseas, particularly in the countries to which a great number of Australians travel, are under greatly increased pressures to handle the problems which arise. Those problems relate not only to drug offences and other offences which are increasing at an alarming rate, with Australians finding themselves in gaol in foreign countries, but also to many other matters, such as destitute Australians, the loss of passports and all the other types of problems which can affect people travelling overseas. 
There is an urgent need, which the Committee recognised and made recommendations on, for an increase in and an upgrading and extension of our consular service. Australians are travelling in more countries and in the past in many countries we have relied upon the goodwill of the British to look after our interests. Today, because of their own problems, the British are less inclined to look after our interests. Therefore, there is a need for Australia to have consulates in many more areas throughout the world. The Committee recognised that and I think the Minister recognises the need to expand our consular service. 
This legislation also puts beyond doubt the reasons for passports being refused.  Senator Tate  addressed himself to this matter also. We have a dual responsibility. Whilst protecting the rights of people to travel overseas, we have to acknowledge that Australia has responsibilities to other nations of the international community. We have a responsibility to ensure, as far as possible- this is spelt out in the Minister's second reading speech- that Australian passport holders do not threaten the national security or public order of other countries; and that we do not grant easily passports to known drug pedlars and people who have offended or are likely to offend against the laws of other countries, to terrorists and so on. Those are international responsibilities which Australia, as other countries, must accept. The concern of the Government to do so is reflected in this legislation. 
I would like to refer to several aspects of the legislation. I referred to the need for us to strengthen our consular service. That is very important today. I think we can expect that the number of Australians travelling overseas will not decrease but increase. If we are to accept the responsibility, which we must accept, of as far as practicable looking after Australian citizens, there is a great need not only to improve the standard of the consular service but also to expand it. 
One matter which the Minister acknowledged, which has concerned me and I am quite sure has concerned other honourable senators, is the need for people to obtain the consent of a spouse before travelling overseas. This has caused a good deal of concern and distress. I am sure that we are all aware of individual cases of that. I welcome the assurance of the Minister that when Australia becomes a signatory to the international convention of recovery abroad of maintenance the practice of requiring the consent of a spouse will be discontinued. I do not know what problems are involved in Australia's becoming a signatory to that convention, but one would hope that before very long we will become a signatory to it because it does create problems for people who have been separated from their spouse for many years and who, indeed, have lost contact with their spouse, to have to try to obtain the approval of that spouse in order to travel overseas. It is a human problem which should be recognised and I am pleased it is recognised. 
I think that that is a possibility. I am not sure how one would administer that flexibility. I think the worry is how to make judgments, but in principle I would agree with  Senator Gietzelt.  An approach was made to me concerning a case in which a woman had not seen her husband for about 10 years and she was required to obtain his permission to travel overseas. She had no obligation to him and he had none to her. 
I might add, that the child concerned is beyond 18 years of age. I know that that woman is very distressed about this requirement, which has created some quite human problems for her. So I am delighted that the need for the discontinuance of this requirement is recognised and I hope that soon it will be discontinued. 
Another matter to which I refer is one to which  Senator Tate  referred, I think with a considerable amount of feeling. I share his feeling on the matter. I refer to the requirement to indicate one 's place of birth. As  Senator Tate  indicated, a recommendation on that was made by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of which I was a member. I supported the Committee's recommendation. The Minister said that a considerable amount of careful study was made of that recommendation. He then gave the reasons why at this stage it could not be complied with. There is no question that the requirement does cause concern and distress to a great number of people. The concern and distress it causes are understandable, but I do not think that we can overcome the problem to which my colleague,  Senator Knight,  referred; namely, that it is a requirement of other countries that the date and place of birth be provided. The Minister acknowledged the fact that the requirement does cause concern and distress, but advanced reasons why at this stage it cannot be removed. Most of us when we have travelled overseas, as most of us have, when filling in immigration cards for entry into various countries, have been required to indicate our date and place of birth and our country of residence. Until such time as there is an internationally recognised commitment not to require that information, very many Australian travellers will be in difficulty. 

 Senator Tate made a comment which I think is valid. People themselves can decide whether they will go to a certain country. I think that is a right which people should have. But all sorts of problems are created when people want to go to a country and are not prepared to give their place of birth. I recognise the problems and the difficulties that confront many people. While I sympathise greatly with the argument that the place of birth should be deleted, 1 am persuaded by the Minister that at this stage it is difficult for Australia to take a unilateral stand on the matter. I think that the proposition is most desirable. The Minister said, I think, that place of birth need not include the country of birth. I suppose if a person did not wish to indicate that he was born in the country to which he was travelling, his place of birth would clearly indicate to the authorities where he was born. The country of birth may be omitted at the applicant's request. I think that perhaps that is going as far as we can reasonably go at this stage. 
Whilst I acknowledge the purpose of the Opposition 's amendment and the compassion behind it, I doubt that we could go very much further until such time as there is an international recognition of the undesirability, to put it in its mildest form, of showing place and country of birth. For that reason, while I greatly sympathise with the purpose of the amendment, I think it is a little unrealistic at this stage. I hope that we will continue to work internationally, to the best of our ability and with other countries which think the same, to try to overcome this problem. We should acknowledge that it is a very real human problem. 
The final matter to which I wish to refer is the examination of changes to reduce the incidence of children being removed by one parent without the knowledge of the other. Again I think that each and every one of us is aware of the tremendous problems which are involved. We are aware of mothers who have been travelling almost the world at tremendous cost to try to find their children who have been removed by a father. 
Yes, and vice versa. 1 do not want to be a sexist. The Minister drew attention to this aspect and said that the Bill strengthens the relative provisions in order to help to overcome this problem and acknowledges that other factors, such as legislation, are involved. I welcome the acknowledgement. An interdepartmental committee is involved in the examination of this matter. I trust that it will come up with some pretty firm recommendations on whether amendments to the Passports Act or other legislation will help to overcome these tremendous problems from which so many people have suffered. I think that we are all concerned with the human problems that are involved in these matters. I welcome the assurance by the Minister that this matter will be examined very carefully. I trust that it can be resolved satisfactorily. 
I note that the Opposition is intending to move a number of amendments at the Committee stage. I think in general that the Opposition supports the legislation and its amendments are an attempt to change, in a minor way, penalties and so on. I think that this is an important piece of legislation which moves greatly towards what we would all wish to see- a protection of basic human rights. Also involved are international responsibilities, the protection of human rights which extend beyond what people might regard as the right to obtain a passport and the human problems which I have mentioned. The legislation acknowledges these facts. This is a significant step forward. Therefore, I welcome the legislation. 
I believe that the sentiments expressed in this matter of public importance would reflect the views of all thinking people in Australia. Disarmament, I think, is like motherhood- everyone approves of it. But today, I guess, thanks to the advances of medical science, motherhood is rather more easy to control. It is very easy, I suppose, to over simplify the issues involved in disarmament. It is not a matter of clever mechanism. It is a matter of trust and confidence between sovereign states. That is a matter to which  Senator Wriedt  addressed himself. 
Measures which reduce security among nations do not help to obtain the ultimate objective. I refer to the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  given to the special session of the United Nations General Assembly on disarmament on 5 June 1978 wherein he dealt with this matter. I will quote from a part of this speech. The Prime Minister said: 
Australia believes that the realistic approach to disarmament lies in the step-by-step development of arms control. It is essential at each step that all who are affected should feel their security is- at the very least- not weakened. Otherwise, the prospects for effective arms control will be destroyed. 
But we should not limit ourselves merely to preserving a precarious status quo. We must aim at increasing the security of nations. Concentrating on disarmament techniques and mechanics is important-but it is not enough. 
I think we now come to the crux of the problem: 
We must confront the underlying political and economic anxieties and suspicions which impel nations to arm themselves. Only if the causes of international tension are removed can there be any realistic hope of achieving a meaningful and long-lasting reduction in arms. 
I will come back to that question in a few moments. Disarmament is a painstaking- I think  Senator Wriedt  discussed this also- process to develop confidence and trust between nations. If I may have the liberty again to refer to the Prime Minister's speech, I point out that he said: 
It is in the building of well-founded trust and confidence that real hope lies of slowing and reversing the growth of conventional arms levels. We need approaches which, while limited and specific in scope, are practical, achievable, and contribute to security at lower levels of armament. 
I believe that that statement quite realistically states the problem. It is towards the overcoming of tensions and problems which face nations and which create distrust and lack of confidence that our policies must be directed. 
There is another problem. In dealing with sovereign nations, there are some nations whose policies are not influenced by public or international opinion. Having said that, I say a few words about the nature of the problem of the world's arms expenditure and what is being done about it, particularly the attitude in the United Nations. We must be concerned about the sheer scale of investment in armaments and the consequent denial of funds for development which would overcome or would help to overcome some of the problems to which I have alluded. 
World arms expenditure cannot, as I have said, be divorced from the world 's political problems. One of the factors which also was referred to by  Senator Wriedt  is the massive amount that developing countries are spending on arms. Looking at the global picture, we see that global defence expenditure is running at over $350 billion a year. Two super-powers account for some 60 per cent of that sum. But the governments of the Third World are now spending as much on military programs as on education and health care combined. I think that that is indeed a deplorable and alarming state. The drain on any country's national resources due to defence needs is colossal. In manpower alone, the world total of armed forces is around 22 million people. 
Energy consumption of the world 's armed forces is estimated at 3.5 per cent of the total world consumption or twice as much as the whole of Africa consumes each year. Of course, this matter has been for long before the United Nations. What is being done about it?  Senator Wriedt  detailed some of the matters which have been dealt with by the United Nations. 
I should like to make one or two comments about Australia's attitude towards disarmament. Following a meeting of the General Assembly, resolution 33/67 requested the SecretaryGeneral to carry out a practical test of a reporting instrument recommended by a panel of experts. The Secretary-General has circulated to all member states a request for their voluntary participation in a test of the proposed standardised reporting instrument on military budgets drawn up by this panel. I am pleased to be able to say that the Australian Government, as announced by the Prime Minister, has agreed to participate in this request. In the same speech to which I have referred, the Prime Minister said: 
Australia in principle supports such reductions carried out in ways which would not be destabilising or create new tensions. 
There is the need to overcome the practical problems of defining and measuring military expenditures and establishing machinery for verifying compliance with any agreed reduction. All this requires thorough examination, and my Government has recently informed the Secretary-General that we are willing to submit our Defence Budget for analysis as part of a pilot project on military budgets. Any significant reductions in military budgets could release substantial resources for economic and social development. 
The Australian Government has responded to the request from the Secretary-General in relation to this matter. I have been referring to the effect upon social and economic development, as has the Prime Minister. A 1977 United Nations study noted that compared with world annual expenditure on arms of over $350 billion official development assistance amounted to only $17 billion, or roughly 6 per cent. Another study noted that half the funds spent on armaments in 1970-75 had been invested in the civilian sector; annual output could have been higher by $200m- more than the aggregate gross national product of southern Asia and Central Africa, the large regions of accute poverty and slow growth in the world. The Secretary-General is to report to the current General Assembly on the relationship between disarmament and development, following the appointment in late 1978 of a group of qualified governmental experts. 
In January 1979 the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  told the committee on disarmament that if significant reductions in military expenditure could be achieved in the manner which provided countries with undiminished security in the lower level of armament, this would do much to help reduce international tensions and to assist the release of resources both nationally and internationally for economic and social development. Australia sees the high level of arms expenditure as a symptom of underlying tensions and lack of confidence which persists between states, and this is what we have been discussing. I believe that this should be addressed to all appropriate forums. The obvious way to reduce expenditure on armaments is to reduce political tensions. I think this is the practical problem that we face. If we are to move realistically towards solving this problem, it is in this direction that our policies must be directed. I think it is a prerequisite for any real progress that tension should be relieved. 
Let us look at our own region, and as an example, look at the situation in Indo-China today and the massive increase in weapons into Vietnam, where it is estimated that the Soviet Union has supported Vietnam militarily by approximately 100,000 tonnes of military aid this year. It is estimated that Soviet equipment is being given to Vietnam at the present moment at the rate of approximately $2m a day. This of course creates feelings of insecurity in neighbouring countries, for example China and Thailand. The result of Thailand feeling insecure is that it is seeking more arms to protect itself. It is in this context that I am speaking of the question of tensions and insecurity. As other countries around the region bordering Indo-China feel threatened, they too seek more arms for their own protection. 
Let us look at the Middle East, a situation which is always threatening. Let us look at the situation in Iran, another example of internal instability creating problems of security both internally and externally amongst its neighbours, Iraq and Saudi Arabia, which then take action to secure more arms to protect themselves against what they perceive as a threat- the external instability and the questions and doubts about Iranian policy. If we turn to Africa, amongst the Third World countries, we find the situation created by the massive supply of arms to countries like Ethiopia, for example, one of the poorest of the poor countries, and the insecurity that is posing to its neighbours which in turn seek arms to meet what they regard as some perceived threat. 
When I speak of the need to relieve political tensions, it is quite obvious that where they exist nations feel that their security is threatened. They then seek more arms to defend and protect that security. The massive build-up in arms in one country raises doubts and fears in neighbouring countries. Therefore the picture continues. I believe that one of the most constructive ways in which we can go about trying to overcome the problem of increased expenditure on armaments is to relieve political tension, promote economic growth and social growth and increase the internal stability of countries and confidence between one country and another. I think it is fair to say that the Prime Minister also acknowledged this and I think this is worth quoting. In the speech to which I have referred relating to the build-up of arms in the Third World countries, the Prime Minister said: 
A sudden expansion of arms, an unexpected concentration of military forces, the growth in a country's military capacity in excess of perceived defence needs- all these produce suspicion and counteraction. 
I believe that our policy should be directed towards increasing understanding, removing suspicion and building confidence and trust, no matter how slow and painful that process might be. It certainly will not be achieved overnight. 
I end where I started. I believe that until tensions, lack of confidence and all those elements which cause instability both internally and externally between nations are removed, then the prospects for disarmament are not bright. Therefore our efforts must be directed towards removing these causes and adopting a constructive and realistic approach to this problem. It is in this area that I believe we and other nations can exercise the most positive influence and exert pressures by adopting policies that will, at least in the long term, reduce the need for countries to engage in this massive expenditure on arms and the threat to world peace. Above all, by spending on arms they are not helping the development of their own countries and are causing increasing misery and hardship amongst their own people. Whilst I have every sympathy for resources from the developed world going to the developing world, when one looks at some leaders whose priorities lie not in the development of their nation and the interests of their people but gaining more sophisticated weapons with which to kill each other and their neighbours, one must question the priorities of those leaders. 
I intend to speak very briefly but would like to congratulate  Senator Wheeldon,  the  Chairman  of the Sub-Committee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union upon the tremendous work that he has done in producing this report, also the members of his committee including, from this chamber,  Senator Sibraa, Senator Martin,  and  Senator Scott,  who was originally also a member. I am glad that  Senator Wheeldon  mentioned that this inquiry got under way under the chairmanship of the  Hon.  Kim Beazley, who in those days set the standard which, as  chairman, Senator Wheeldon  followed. 
There may be arguments, as  Senator Wheeldon  has said, concerning whether a committee of the Parliament should examine what people might regard as the internal affairs of another country. I do not think that is a relevant argument to use now. It has been suggested that this report is too long. I read the original draft and found it to be fascinating. It is well documented. As is essential in a report of this kind, the conclusions are supported by evidence. Neither the Sub-Committee, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence nor the Parliament could be left open to a charge of making allegations which could not be substantiated. I believe that the Sub-Committee has substantiated its allegations and findings. I know that, as the Sub-Committee has pointed out, under the czars Russia was not noted for its sensitivity about human rights. The situation has not changed. As  Senator Wheeldon  has said, the Committee's first reference was the situation of the Jews in the Soviet Union and later that reference was widened. 
The report deals at great length with the situation of people of the Jewish faith and persuasion in the Soviet Union. Some of the discriminations are crude, but many are very subtle. Because they are subtle they are no less effective when employed against these people. The report documents many cases in which subtle discrimination has been used to their disadvantage. One example, of course, is the use of the term Jew ' in a passport or document, a practice which brands the holder for all time as one who is somewhat separate from the rest of the community. We have a right to deplore such discrimination on grounds of race or religion. 
At this stage I do not intend to say more, but I believe that the Senate and the Parliament are indebted to  Senator Wheeldon  and his SubCommittee for the tremendous job that they have done in producing this monumental report, which should be read by all honourable senators and members and, indeed, should be widely read in the community - 
By the community of Australia- I thank  Senator Young-  for a better understanding of the real problems of people who are denied what we regard as fundamental human rights. As  Senator Wheeldon  has said, no country is free of the charge of denial of human rights. We should all accept that. Like  Senator Wheeldon,  I would not be worried if the Soviet Union wanted to inquire into a section of the Australian public. I trust that the Australian Government would co-operate in such an inquiry. 
I do not want to get into that argument now. 
I have grave doubts about the advisability of going further with it, because it involves people of different cultures and traditions. 
It is very easy for the honourable senator to suggest that, but perhaps Indonesia would conduct one into us too. The honourable senator might not find that very comfortable. However, we are not discussing that subject now. We are talking about this report, which I support. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
May I say at the outset that I fully support the comments made by  Senator Martin  regarding the appropriation for the Parliament and her criticism of the administration of the Advance to the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  When I was  chairman  of Estimates Committee A, as  Senator McClelland  would well remember, we had some very strong comments to make about the improper use of that fund. I regret that this battle is still continuing. I would express the view that unless some satisfactory solution is reached the responsibility will rest upon the Senate to take some action to bring home once and for all to the Minister for Finance that this fund should be acted upon in accordance with the rules and not some ad hoc decisions which are reached from time to time. 
I rise tonight to defend the officers of the Senate. My attention has been drawn to some comments made by  Mr Scholes,  the honourable member for Corio, at a meeting of House of Representatives Estimates Committee A. I have a very high regard for  Mr Scholes  but his comments could certainly be construed as questioning the dedication of officers of the Senate in servicing joint committees. Obviously he was referring to the servicing of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I have great knowledge and experience of that Committee. I believe it is true to say that, despite pressures, the Senate staff have always serviced that Committee efficiently and adequately. I am aware that there are pressures but of recent times, despite those pressures, every request has been met. I would not like it to be thought that there should be any criticism which questions the dedication of the officers. 
There are problems in regard to the staffing of joint committees, but to imply that because some of the members of the joint committees come from another place there is less dedication, which implication one could draw from the remarks of  Mr Scholes,  is, I believe, to be completely unfair. He said that the staffing of the joint committees by officers of another House leads to those committees being involved in the internal politics of the administration of one House or the other. I have never experienced that. I do not believe that it is true to say that the members of the committee from the other House are placed in a disadvantageous position. I have never heard that comment made about any of the joint committees on which I have served. I believe it is fair to say not only that the officers of the Senate have acted with dedication in the servicing of joint committees but also that they have acted with great integrity. I do not want to be unfair to  Mr Scholes  but I must say that I have never heard from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence or any of its subcommittees, despite the pressures of staff, any comment which could be construed in any way as criticism of the staff of those committees. I rise tonight merely to place on record my fairly long experience of these committees and my appreciation of the services of the officers of the Senate. 

 Senator Martin raised the question of staffing, which I believe is a serious matter. I do not believe the Parliament should be constrained in the proper exercise of its functions by a shortage of staff. It is a matter for the Parliament. I do not believe it is proper for the Executive to involve itself in such a way that the Parliament cannot operate effectively or efficiently. There is a problem but, as I said at the outset, the Senate officers have always responded to any request of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I do not believe that any of the Committees has not been adequately staffed. Also, the officers of those Committees show no favouritism to members of one House or the other. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Government can confirm reports of disorders in the New Hebrides following the recent successful elections. Are the disorders being caused by elements of an unsuccessful political party? Is it also true that the authorities are showing a reluctance to take any action? Is there any action that the Australian Government can take in this matter? 
