I rise to speak in favour of the motion relating to the address-in-reply to the Governor-General's Speech. I would be pleased,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you would pass on to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his election to his high office and also my congratulations to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. The electorate I represent is the biggest electorate in the world. It covers approximately 880 000 square miles or nine-tenths of Western Australia or one-third of the Australian continent. Its shores are washed by three of the world's oceans and its eastern boundary is the entire eastern border of Western Australia. Some other honorable members have spoken of the vast size of their electorates and the large number of people they represent. In this geographically largest electorate there live approximately 180 000 or 190 000 people of whom only about 57 000 are on the electoral roll. I think that this is the highest ratio of people to electors in any electorate in Australia. Whilst not all of them are on the electoral roll they represent 180 000 problems. 
The industries in the Kalgoorlie electorate generate approximately one-quarter of the total export income of Australia. They include gold, nickel, iron ore, beach sands, salt, fishing, wheat, wool and beef. The cray fishing industry which is centred on Geraldton earns over $30m in export income, to say nothing of the huge income from mineral and rural exports. The living conditions in the electorate range from large modern urban areas through small modern towns in isolated settings in mining camps, lonely stations and Aboriginal settlements. Despite exceptional progress in recent years, some of the major problems in remote and inland Australia relate to communications; total communications- roads, railways, airways, airports, shipping, telephones, television and radio. 
The Kalgoorlie electorate is noted for its lack of adequate communications. That deficiency can cause very real feelings of isolation and despair, particularly amongst our womenfolk and our children. Simple things like mail deliveries cause problems. The city dwellers are accustomed to having the mail delivered regularly and at no extra cost other than the normal 1 8c per letter. But I know of people in isolated areas who have to pay from $10 per week to $32 per week extra to have their mail delivered, depending on how far they live from the nearest town. Quite often it costs $3,000 to have a telephone connected, and many telephone connections cost as much as $10,000. I know of one non-profit organisation which was asked to pay $23,000 for a single telephone connection. When adverse weather conditions, which regularly prevail in the electorate, close our substandard gravel roads and earth airstrips, the people of inland and northern Australia are trapped and isolated, sometimes for many weeks on end, causing very real hardship and a feeling sometimes of being forgotten. Yet these same people are producing the very real wealth of the country. 
In regard to airports and air services, I point out that for people in inland and northern Australia air travel is of vital importance and, in many instances, is the only access available. I am pleased that we have decided not to continue with the plans of the previous Government to increase air transport charges by an irresponsible amount. That increase would have completely crippled air services to areas such as the Kimberleys, Pilbara, Murchison and created real hardship for the people living in those areas. I am pleased that we intend instead to increase these charges by only 1 5 per cent, in line with the Airlines Agreement Act. On the subject of air services, I express concern over the policy of the previous Government to phase out the subsidy to feeder airlines, as that phasing out is having a dramatic and damaging effect on the type and frequency of services to inland Australia. I hope we can give urgent consideration to this vitally important assistance otherwise we will soon have no feeder airlines servicing remote areas, with the resultant difficulty of attracting people to work in the north and develop our resources. 
As to development, we will again need to encourage the inflow of very large amounts of overseas capital in order to get some of our really big projects off the ground. I see nothing wrong with overseas capital and overseas companies. It was overseas capital that made America the great country it is today, and it was overseas capital that made Australia great. Our Government can control the way in which overseas capital flows. It should be remembered that when an overseas company, or anyone else for that matter, builds our towns, our ports, our railways and our industries that company cannot pick them up and take them with it. Australia is richer by far for them having been here. One development leads to another. An example of this is seen at Port Hedland and at Dampier. Following the development of modern airconditioned towns to service the iron ore industry, other companies were encouraged to set up very large solar salt works which employ hundreds of people and machines. The only raw materials these plants use are sunlight and sea water. 
Furthermore, our policies on investment allowances are working. A graphic illustration of that can be seen in the proposal by a consortium to develop the huge Agnew nickel deposit, which incidently is the largest sulphide nickel ore body in the world. The development at Agnew at this stage is made possible by the 40 per cent investment allowance and other concessions. So our policies do work. I am confident that the same policies will allow other major projects to get off the ground in the near future. It is absolutely imperative that we encourage the immediate development of the gasfield on the north-west shelf. Each day that we delay bringing the gas ashore the cost escalates at a frightening rate, and real progress in Australia is stifled. We ought to allow the export of some of that gas to enable the developers to establish a cash flow. It should be borne in mind that some of the gas is so situated on the shelf that it cannot be brought ashore by conventional pipeline but has to be loaded into tankers. Let us export some of that portion of the gas in order to establish a cash flow and to ensure that we can get full benefit from our huge energy resources. We will then see tremendous industrial growth alongside our primary industries. 
We often hear talk of decentralisation. Two items which I believe would materially assist in decentralising industry and people are a fuel price equalisation scheme and a complete review of taxation zone allowances so that they are bought to meaningful levels. I estimate that if the price of fuel in metropolitan areas was raised by approximately one cent per gallon, we could enjoy fuel at the one price throughout Australia without unduly penalising any section of the community and without the necessity for government subsidy. The high cost of fuel is reflected in almost every commodity we buy because a large proportion of the cost of an article is the cost of transport, and a significant factor in the cost of transport is the cost of fuel. The further one lives from a metropolitan area, the higher cost of transport to and from that area. Fuel price equalisation would benefit the city dweller in providing cheaper commodities produced inland and transported to coastal areas. Also he would find fuel at the same price wherever he travelled on holidays and at weekends, instead of paying up to $1.20 per gallon in some areas. We can buy cigarettes and other items at equalised prices. Let us have fuel prices equalised, not subsidised. 
Taxation zone allowances need to be looked at in a completely new light. Because of development in recent years we need to forget about our present zone A and zone B and the 26th parallel because they are unrealistic lines of demarcation. We ought to look at new zones based on the degree of disadvantage suffered, and perhaps we need more than 2 zones so that the allowance can be graduated. I believe a meaningful zone allowance in the most disadvantaged areas would need to be at least $2,000 per annum. The people living in some of the modern airconditioned towns with modern facilities, situated above the 26th parallel, are not nearly as disadvantaged as those people living in some of the older isolated towns below that 26th parallel. I am fully aware that in some quarters it is held that zone allowances are unconstitutional. If that is so, they have been unconstitutional for more than 20 years. Let us not be negative; let us look at positive ways in which to implement new zone allowances at realistic levels. People will be more willing to go into isolated areas if they can obtain real benefit from their earnings, and industry will be more willing to start up in isolated settings if it knows full well that it will not have to pay massive premiums to attract employees. 
I would like to bring to the attention of the Parliament a couple of anomalies in the education allowances. For instance, we have the Aboriginal secondary students allowance scheme, which is basically a good scheme and one which I believe is necessary. But in some instances the benefits provided under that scheme are abused. I know of families who are very well off and still claim these special allowances simply because they have some small amount of Aboriginal blood in the family, even though they own large properties or have high incomes. At the same time the equivalent level of assistance is not available to needy non-Aboriginal children. That sort of discrimination is causing a tremendous amount of ill-feeling in isolated communities in Australia. I believe that the same level of assistance should be available to all, irrespective of race or colour, but it should be subject to a means test so that we are assisting those who are really in need. 
Then we have the situation of special Aboriginal schools which have been set up in some isolated stations and settlements. Enrolment in these schools consists almost 100 per cent of Aboriginal children and the level of teaching is specially geared to the level of learning ability of those Aboriginal children. Because of that level of teaching, most of the non-Aboriginal children are sent off to Perth or Port Hedland or elsewhere to achieve a more satisfactory level of education. Because their parents live within a prescribed radius of a school they are not eligible for the normal living away from home allowances and travel concessions. I believe that is unjust and needs to be put right. We need to reignite completely the development thrust in Australia. Let us lift our sights beyond the myopic policies of the past and press on to a better way of life for us all. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the need to develop within Western Australia an alternative international airport to Perth? Is the Minister aware of plans to develop this alternative airport at Kalgoorlie? Can he say when these plans will proceed? 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of applications by Western Australian Airlines to fly direct overseas flights from Port Hedland to Bali? Does the Minister agree that this would mean that there would be considerable savings on fares to the 40 000 people of the Pilbara, and indeed to the people of Western Australia, who may wish to travel to Bali? What difficulties, if any, would arise in granting permission for these flights? 
-I address my question to the Minister for Transport. It follows on from a question I asked the Minister last month. Can he inform the House when he will be in a position to announce a decision to allow direct overseas flights from Port Hedland to Bali? Is the Minister aware that approximately 40 000 people in the Pilbara region are anxiously awaiting this decision and that some already have made tentative travel plans pending the decision? 
-I rise to bring to the attention of the House the Government's decision to adopt the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the production of gold. I believe this decision was made on wrong information supplied to the Commission and was made on the assumption that all the evidence contained in the IAC report which was presented on 6 June 1975 was correct. I submit that the report is so out of date as to be unrealistic and that the recommendation should no longer apply to the industry. I quote the report in part. It states: 
The concessions . . . provided under this Act were designed for the situation where the price of gold was maintained at an artificially low level. 
I further quote from the report: 
First, with the large increases in the price of gold which have occurred in recent years, the cost of these tax concessions in terms of the taxation revenue forgone has greatly increased. In 1973-74, the cost to the general community of these tax concessions totalled over $ 12m and, by 1980, they could cost in excess of $40m annually depending on movements in production costs and in the price of gold. 
With regard to this situation, the report further states: ... it must eventually result in a misallocation of resources between gold mining and other forms of mining . . . Under this proposal, gold producers would be subject to the same taxation provisions as other mineral producers by July 1980. 
I believe that these assumptions are completely false. Firstly, they were based on an era in which gold was attaining a price of approximately $ 140 an ounce. Today, not much more than 12 months later, the price is approximately $89 or $90 an ounce. So the claim that the tax forgone would reach $40m per annum is entirely false. Today, there are few, if any, gold mining companies or individuals in a position where they would show enough profit to pay tax. So the amount of revenue forgone to the Government would be negligible. The industry today is in a very parlous state. There is a very weak market for the commodity. The last thing it needs is a kick in the teeth like the removal of the tax exemption clause. I submit that the IAC should have another complete look at the gold mining industry and that the Government should reconsider its decision to phase in the imposition of taxation the gold mining industry and give this industry another chance. The IAC report of 6 June 1975 goes on to say: 
Employment in the industry over the next two or three years is unlikely to be affected by the recommendations. ... the effect on the life of the mines is not expected to be significant. 
The employment situation in the gold mining industry in Kalgoorlie at the present time is indeed at risk and the effect on the life of the mines is indeed great. I further quote from the report: 
However, it is believed that the recommended phasing out provisions could cost between $60m and $130m in revenue forgone . . . 
In my opinion, in the phasing out period no revenue would be forgone because the industry is not in a position today where it would be paying tax and it is not likely to reach that position in the short term. We all know that a significant factor in the depressed price of gold is the International Monetary Fund sales of gold over the next  3Vi  years. It was proposed to sell 25 million ounces of gold over 4 years, commencing about January 1976. This scheme has approximately 3vi years to run. There is not a significant prospect of the price of gold rising during that time so we would see the gold industry maintaining an uneconomical situation for perhaps 3 years or more. During this time I do not believe that we ought to be talking about implementing a tax on gold. 
A further aspect of the gold mining industry in Kalgoorlie is that is does generate a tremendous amount of employment and a tremendous amount of interest for the individual prospector who goes out at weekends or in any other spare time and uses his individual initiative and his free enterprise instinct to gain himself some further employment and some betterment of his way of life and his standard of living. If the gold is to be taxed this incentive will be removed from these few honest, hard working individuals who are out there, in the outback of Australia, eking out a living and not only prospecting for gold but finding tomorrow's mines. It is obvious that today's prospectors are the people who bring in tomorrow's mines and the massive development that goes with them. With tomorrow's mines and the big mining development, we see great employment opportunities, development and tremendous capital inflow into the area. All of this will dry up if at this point in time we decide to impose a tax on gold mining. 
We have some massive ventures like the Telfer gold project in the Pilbara and the Blue Spec mine at Nullagine. We have projects in Tasmania and in Tennant Creek which in my opinion will wither and die on the vine if we impose a tax on gold. 
There could well be a closure of the State battery system in Western Australia which performs the custom milling operations for the prospectors. Because of the lack of incentive and the lack of ore coming from individual prospectors there will be a drying-up of job opportunities when the State batteries close down. This is a tremendous service industry to outback Australia and to Western Australia in particular. It helps individuals raise their standard of living, as I said a moment ago, and also creates a tremendous amount of export income for Australia and a tremendous amount of productivity for the area it serves. I ask the Government and the Ministers concerned to reconsider seriously the decision to implement the recommendations in the Industries Assistance Commission report. I submit that the LAC report is so out of date that it is not realistic today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware of Press reports to the effect that a woman who is now in Kalgoorlie and who came to Australia on a visitor's visa has been asked to leave Australia because her visa has expired and now seeks to have the decision reversed? Has the woman complied with all the conditions of her visitor's visa? Does the Minister agree that visa conditions can be dismissed lightly? 
-When we talk about resources we talk mainly about mining resources, but in Australia we have many other important ones. I am not going to talk on all of them tonight, but they include beef, wool, salt, fishing, oil and gas, just to mention a few. I would like to take to task the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He said that when members of the present Opposition were in Government, particularly when he held a ministerial portfolio, he tried to create and encourage certainty in the minds of the buyers of our exports. About the only things he was able to generate successfully in the minds of the buyers of our exports were uncertainty, distrust and confusion. We have to get away from that situation and try to generate a certain amount of trust in Australia again. 
Consider the fishing industry in Australia first. That is one of our resource industries. It earns well over $40m in export income from the Western Australian waters alone and employs many hundreds of people. Our crayfish and prawns from Western Australia have become world famous. 
-Yes, I agree. There are some odd mammals in this House, particularly on the Opposition side. Our fishing industry needs a strong defence organisation so that it can be protected. For example, recently I was out at Barrow Island. Coming back we flew over Monte Bello and happened to see the now famous  Fu Long 11,  the Taiwanese fishing vessel, in the lagoon there. We watched part of the history of the  Fu Long 11  all the way down the Western Australian coast. It ran aground and subsequently has been subject to some court orders. 
The development of our huge oil and gas reserves, a lot of which will happen offshore in the high cost areas, will require clear incentives in order to allow profitability for the developers. Again we must think of our defence capabilities in those areas. The huge amounts of capital needed dictate that private enterprise- again I take issue with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports- is best suited to develop these high risk ventures. It is fairly reliably estimated, for instance, that about $2,000m will be required initially to get the North- West Shelf gas ashore. I want to cite some of the incentives that this Government has granted. As honourable members know, in the last Labor Budget an excise of $2 a barrel was introduced on the production of crude oil condensate and naturally occurring liquefied petroleum gas. This Government accepts that that levy represents a substantial deterrent to companies considering exploration for new fields and therefore it decided that oil from discoveries after 17 August would be free from production excise. The result will be that production of crude oil from future discoveries will have full import parity. The incentives we are now allowing will encourage developments such as the North- West Shelf to get under way shortly. 
Turning to mining, in 1974-75 mining added approximately $2,000m to the value of Australia's income. In 1974-75 Australia's mineral exports totalled $2, 357m, being just 27 per cent of the value of our total exports. Mineral exports from Western Australia alone up to 30 June 1976 amounted to $ 1,351m, a jump of 21 per cent over that for the previous year, and there are big things in store for us in months to come. 
The Commonwealth Government's basic policy towards all industries, particularly our mining resources industries, is to provide a legislative and economic framework which includes sufficient incentives to enable new development programs to get under way. For instance, the Australian coal industry estimates that it would now be feasible to spend up to $2,000m in additional capital on new projects over the next 5 years. I want to cite some of the things we have done for the coal industry. The previous Labor Government introduced a coal export levy of $6 a tonne on high quality coal and $2 a tonne on other coal. Certain low grade coal was exempt. Our Government has always regarded this as an entirely inappropriate form of taxation. We will reduce the tax immediately. The Government regards this as the first step towards completely phasing out this tax within 3 years. As far as immediate steps are concerned, the Government will remove the duty from non-coking coal and reduce the rates on coking coal by 25 per cent. 
These changes, which will apply immediately, will cost an estimated $33m in 1976-77 and $37m in a full year. Projects were recently announced in Western Australia to expand iron ore operations with capital expenditure of $650m. This will create up to 3,000 new jobs in the area. Bringing these projects to fruition was a tribute to that super salesman,  Sir Charles  Court. 
The 2 greatest problems facing resource development are inflation and industrial unrest. We are coming to grips with inflation. I am confident that we can get it completely under control. On 9 July the secret ballot legislation was proclaimed. It is working successfully and it will play a major part in curbing industrial unrest. Proof that it is working is seen in the latest desperate attempts by some radical union leaders- desperadoes- to cause chaos in industry. Recently we have seen this at places like Telfer and others. The average hard working unionist is sick to death of politically inspired stoppages. He wants only to earn a good day's wage. The most senior managing director of Nippon Steel Corporation,  Mr Suburo  Tanabe, warned that unless we achieved industrial peace in Australia, Japan would be forced to look elsewhere for its raw material. I am of the opinion that we are making progress in relation to industrial peace with our secret ballot legislation and with other measures. 

 Mr Tanabe is obviously aware of this as very recently he has expressed renewed interest in areas such as Area C in the Pilbara. He has indicated a time frame of about 1980 for this project With coal and mineral development in New South Wales and Queensland and mineral and oil development in Western Australia and the Northern Territory, Australia is on the threshold of exciting and absolutely enormous development. Each time our natural resources industries take a step forward, new development in Australia takes a leap forward. The spin off development in manufacturing industries and the general lift in the economy help to raise the standard of living for all Australians. To enable this to take place we need to create an economic climate for profitable ventures financed and run by private enterprise. We need to realise that this profitability, and so the viability of projects, must not be destroyed by irresponsible industrial unrest. Let us aU get behind this great surge forward in our natural resources area which will carry Australia through to the 1 980s. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that considerable interest has been shown in Western Australia in a request for permission to fly direct from the Pilbara area to Bali? In view of the fact that Qantas Airways Ltd recently announced that it would provide a service from Perth to Bali, will the Minister grant permission for Qantas to land at either Port Hedland or Learmonth  en route  to Bali? Does the Minister realise that the people of the Pilbara, who number almost SO 000 and who originally requested this service, will be forced to pay an extra $480 approximately every time they travel to Bah? Will the Minister continue to allow Qantas to overfly the Pilbara region without stopping whilst  en route  to Bali? 
I wish to draw to the attention of the House an injustice to the people who live in a large part of my electorate. I refer to the hardy race of people who live and work in the harsh environment of the Pilbara area of Western Australia and who put up with the heat, the dust, the flies and the loneliness. They are faced with the immense cost of living 1000 miles north of the capital city of Perth. The cost of living is high, the cost of transport is enormous and the cost of damage to private vehicles on bad roads etc. is astronomical. These people of the Pilbara produce a huge percentage of the export income of Australia- proportionately far more than any other group of Australian citizens. They are prepared to work in adverse conditions in order to produce Australia 's wealth. 
The Pilbara people want the alternative outlet of being able to go to Bah on their days off instead of the long tedious haul down to Perth. It is almost the same cost for a return flight from Port Hedland to Perth as it is from Port Hedland to Bah. MacRobertson Millar Airline Services quoted $250 Port Hedland-Bali return as against $207 Port Hedland-Perth return. However because of problems with our overseas airline agreement and the request by the Indonesian airline for reciprocal rights, it has been decided to allow only Qantas Airways Ltd to implement the service. Qantas will fly Perth-Bali-Perth at a fare of $514 or will fly a package tour PerthBaliPerth for 8 days for $455 including accommodation. Qantas will fly another package tour Perth to Bali for 7 days then to Singapore for 7 days and return to Perth for $662 including accommodation. Despite being 1000 miles from Perth and approximately the same distance from Bah and the fact that Port Hedland or Learmonth are almost on the direct route from Perth to Bah, Qantas plans to overfly the Pilbara without stopping. 
In an answer to a question I asked this morning, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  may have given the impression that Learmonth was unsuitable as an international airport. He could have been mistaken as Learmonth is already designated as the international alternative within Western Australia and is regularly used by the largest planes operating in Australia today, including Jumbos. In fact a giant American Air Force Starlifter aircraft lands and takes off from Learmonth on a regular round-the-world trip every week. The demand for this overseas flight to Bah originated in the Pilbara and has the support of all local government bodies, all the mining companies and chambers of commerce as well as the 50 000 people living in the immediate vicinity. It also has the support of the State members for Pilbara and North Province who have put forward strong representations on the matter. 
It would be criminal if Qantas were to be allowed to overfly the Pilbara without stopping and so force the people living in that area to pay an additional $450 to $480 and be forced to travel an extra 2000 miles. I ask the Minister to reconsider his decision and to require Qantas to land at Learmonth on the way to and from Bali. I ask the Minister to identify the deficiencies at Port Hedland with a view to upgrading this airport to the standards necessary to allow use by international flights. When these deficiencies have been remedied Qantas should be required to land at Port Hedland. If this leads to a move to reciprocal flights to and from Port Hedland by the Indonesian airline it will be a desirable extension of the service to the people of Pilbara. 
-Has the Prime Minister seen an editorial in today's edition of the  Sydney Morning Herald  in which it is asserted that he told Parliament last week that the Government's economic package would not result in a rise in private interest rates? Is his assertion correct? 
-Today we are faced with one of the most difficult decisions ever to be made by the Parliament, because upon this decision will rest the welfare of millions of people. Indeed, the welfare and standard of living of a vast majority of the people on earth could rest upon this decision. But the fact that this decision is difficult does not mean that we should flinch from making it- quite the contrary. We should make a firm, well thought-out decision as early as possible so that everybody may know it, understand it and understand the rationale behind it. I state that we should mine and sell uranium. We have heard a lot about the dangers of mining and processing uranium. We have been inundated with alarmist calls about the dangers of using uranium for the generation of power. We have been subjected to the most frightening stories about the storage of nuclear waste. I know there are some dangers but if stringent safeguards are implemented the dangers will be minimised. The scaremongering forebodings are not substantiated by facts. 
The truth is that the mining of the relatively low grade deposits of uranium in Australia, principally by open pit mining methods, by safety conscious people is no more dangerous than any other mining operation and is far less injurious to health than the underground mining of many other minerals. In fact there exists adequate medical evidence which strongly links underground mining in poor conditions to all sorts of respiratory diseases and skin complaints. This has nothing to do with uranium. Because of the specific care which will be exercised in mining uranium and because it appears that the known deposits will be mined by open pit mining methods, the incidence of mining illness will be considerably less than in the mining of other materials. The method of concentration to produce a salable yellow cake are not unlike any other mineral chemical leaching process and are certainly no more dangerous. The amount of radiation in the mining and concentration stages is negligible, but the benefits to Australia and Australians are immense. 
A study paper prepared by the brilliant  Mr William  Wright and  Mr John  Silver of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has stated that the immediate setting up of a uranium industry, with the aid of scientists, could result in earnings of $3,000m a year by 1985. The paper, published in the Commission's monthly digest,  Atomic Energy,  says that such an industry could directly employ 3500 people with another 3000 in indirect projects. It would need an investment of $ 1,750m over the next 9 years, most of which would be spent in Australia and would provide employment and growth. Those figures would be even greater today. The paper was prepared with the full knowledge of  Mr Wright  and  Mr Silver.  In the report the director of the unit claims that by the mid or late 1 980s uranium could be one of Australia's most important mineral exports in terms of overseas earnings and could be earning considerably more than the wheat or wool industries. By 1985 the industry could provide employment for 8000 to 10 000 people. The report argues against withholding Australia's resources from development, saying that our influence on the international market is not great enough to affect the Western world. Australia has about 19 per cent of the West's reasonably assured lowgrade low-cost resources of uranium. Although it makes little difference to the rest of the world if Australia exports its uranium, it could deny Australia real benefits in foreign currency earnings, employment and national development if we do not do so. The alternative policy of development of resources would make it financially beneficial to install plants immediately for the conversion of yellowcake into enriched uranium. 
The use of uranium in nuclear reactors is the safest method of generating power at a reasonable cost. It is far safer than the generation of power from coal. Almost daily people are dying from the effects of coal-fired power stations, but no one is getting emotional over coal. That is to say nothing of the dangers and deaths that are occurring in the actual mining of coal as well as its processing to the point where it can be used for power generation. The long term dangers from coal-fired power stations continually spewing out large amounts of CO are diluting the earth's atmosphere to the extent that radiation from the sun 's rays is a real threat to life on earth. The dangers from uranium-fuelled reactors is minimal. I quote no less an eminent authority than Professor Titterton. He quotes figures that show that after 20 years' generation of nuclear power there have been no deaths from any accidents in nuclear power plants, including nuclear powered ships. He compares that with deaths resulting from various causes such as deaths resulting from motor car accidents, being struck by lightning and so on. But the deaths resulting from nuclear reactor plants are less than one in 300 million. Professional critics of nuclear power imply that a core meltdown would release fission products and produce a catastrophic accident. This is not true. Such accidents require a failure of the coolant circuit of the reactor followed by an immediate failure of the emergency core coolant arrangements. Even then the melted core would have to burn its way through the pressure vessel and then through a 10 foot concrete shield into the reactor hull. This is designed to be radioactively tight and it would be about 30 hours after the accident before any radioactivity escaped to the outside world, giving ample time for evacuation of nearby populations- human and animal. What would actually eventuate depends mainly on 3 factors, namely, how much radioactivity is actually released to the environment; the weather conditions outside- wind directions, rain, snow, etc.; and the number of people in the path of radiation. 
A very significant table that I have illustrates that the number of likely fatalities from a core melt down would be minimal indeed. The fatalities would be less than one; injuries would be less than one; latent fatalities would be less than one; thyroid nodules would be about four; genetic defects would be less than one; and property damage outside the immediate plant area would be approximately $100,000. These figures and data have implications for the safety of nuclear powered ships entering harbours. Reactors are shut down after arrival until departure so the danger is zero. The information which I have goes on to illustrate the safety aspects of using uranium. 
It is significant that the main opponents of the mining of uranium in Australia and its export are being mobilised and financed by sources and people who are communist-inspired and some of those sit opposite in this House. This emotional and misleading opposition is not by accident. It is designed to put fear into the hearts of men and women who do not fully understand the facts. Those responsible play on people's fears but the motives are designed to interfere with our way of life. We live in a democratic system but it is our way of life that these people are hell bent to destroy. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  who spoke tonight, even advocated taking the decision-making away from the elected Parliament and placing it outside in the hands of some unnamed and unknown group. He would have rule by fear and ignorance without reference to this Parliament. 
If we do not mine and sell our uranium do honourable members think that this decision will have any effect on the world 's generation of nuclear power? This is not likely. If uranium cannot be gained from this source it can always be obtained from sea water. It we do not mine and export uranium for the world market subject to the most stringent conditions possible the users will get their supplies elsewhere. We are not the only country in the world that has uranium. We do not have the only uranium deposits that can be mined viably. We will only penalise the Australian people and Australia as a country if we do not utilise this immense wealth and our immense resources of uranium. 
There has already been at least 2 years' public debate on this matter and it is now time for the elected Parliament to make its decision. I would like to quote one part of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry Report which the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was not game to quote. The honourable member quoted from paragraph 3 on page 185 of the report. However, he did not quote fully what the Commissioner said, namely: 
We suggest that the questions involved are of such importance that they be resolved by Parliament. 
It is easy to quote these things out of context, but they ought to be quoted fully. I also quote what the Commissioners had to say on page 1 76. They stated: 
It was not contended that, if properly regulated and controlled, hazards associated only with the mining and milling of uranium were of such a magnitude that those operations should not be allowed. These may nevertheless be quite natural concern that there may be a risk to health from releases of radioactivity in the course of those activities or after they have ceased. The topic has been dealt with in detail in Chapter 10. We are quite satisfied that, if properly regulated and controlled according to known standards, those operations do not constitute any health hazard which is greater in degree than those commonly accepted in everyday industrial activities. 
Therefore a lot of nonsense is being spoken about uranium at the present time. Under the heading 'Radioactive wastes' the Commissioners stated: 
The matter of wastes involves some different considerations. Low-level and intermediate-level wastes are being disposed of in ways that seem to us to be reasonably satisfactory from the point of view of people in the countries concerned, and constitute no problem likely to affect Australia. 
These are the sorts of recommendations and facts that the Fox inquiry has seen fit to put into its report. On page 179 under the heading 'Permanent refusal to supply' the Commissioners stated: 
We mentioned earlier an argument that Australia should permanently refuse to supply uranium, or should at least postpone supply, with a view to persuading other countries, by our example, from entering upon or further developing nuclear power production. Although the argument probably finds its strongest support from considerations of proliferation, it can be supported by reference to all the hazards and problems of the industry. 
A total renunciation of intention to supply designed to bring an end to all nuclear power industries or all further development of them would in our view be likely to fail totally in its purpose. If the purpose were simply to draw international attention to the dangers of and associated with the industry, that purpose might be achieved, but it is most unlikely that any worthwhile action would result. On the other hand there are positive reasons against adopting such a course. Apart from financial considerations, which are not to be neglected, there are considerations to which we referred when dealing with the topic of proliferation. A total refusal to supply would place Australia in clear breach of Article IV of the NPT and could adversely affect its relation to countries which are parties to the NPT. These matters might not have been of any concern at all had we not advanced our preparations for uranium mining to the stage they have now reached, so that our readiness and ability to supply within a few years are now obvious. We are of the view that total renunciation of intention to supply is undesirable. 
I also make a small quote from page 180. The Commissioners stated: 
On the evidence available to us no country with an expressed intention to buy Australian uranium will in the meantime be dependent on Australia, in the sense that supplies at reasonable cost could not be obtained elsewhere. 
It is nonsense to think that any action which we in Australia might take in the mining and export of uranium will have any significant effect on the world's nuclear power generating stations. It is quite clear to me that the people who have been stirring up emotions over this issue during the last two or three years- this debate has gone on for at least two or three years- and who advocate another two or three years of debate are speaking absolute nonsense. To do so is to be weak. It is to put back the day when the elected Parliament of Australia must make a decision. The decision must be made by the Parliament. It should not be made by people outside this House who have only part of the knowledge which we, as a total Parliament, are able to muster. The forces which are advocating this course of action are working against our democratic way of life in Australia. They would like to see the destruction of our very government. Fortunately, most of the people advocating this action will not be in power in Australia in the foreseeable future. I ask honourable members to think about a situation when the Australian Labor Party comes to power. Members of the Labor Party have said that a Labor government will not honour any agreement already made by the LiberalNational Country Party Government. That is absolute nonsense because the Labor Party is not likely to be in office to affect a decision taken by this Government, anyway. 
-I should like to ask a question of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister would be aware that over the past 12 months or so there have been large scale retrenchments from the gold mining industry in Western Australia. I ask: Has this added significantly to unemployment in the eastern goldfields area? Will the Minister say what steps his Department has taken to alleviate the situation? Were these steps successful? Is there in fact a shortage of skilled workers in the Kalgoorlie region which is severely hampering new development? 
-I have 
Kat pleasure in supporting the motion of thenourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  concerning the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty on the occasion of the opening of the Parliament.  Her  Majesty spoke of the great development opportunities in Australia and of how much this country had progressed since her last visit here. It is true that we have continued to develop in recent years at a rapid rate, at least up until 1973 when the poliCies of the Whitlam Labor Government stifled development. It stifled development in the mining industry to the extent that between 1973 and 1976 hundreds of exploration crews were disbanded and many left this country for places which were considered to have a more stable form of government. Places like Indonesia, the Philippines and the South American countries were regarded as being more stable, and some of those crews are only now beginning to return to participate in the next great surge forward in this country. 
The Whitlam Government crucified the rural sector and put the industry back 20 years in terms of real progress. It seemed to have a special hate for the rural industry. It discouraged investment in the fishing industry and stopped oil exploration in its tracks. The oil industry is indeed fragile, but we can now see a steady revival of interest with more wells being drilled this year than for the past 2 years. Whitlam plunged this country into financial chaos, near bankruptcy, and was then flung out of office in complete disgrace in November 1975. That brings me to what is known as the leadership stakes. We have seen this week what has been a quite remarkable circus on the Opposition side of the House- a circus that has kept us enthralled, a thrill a minute merry-go-round, a parade of potential Leaders of the Opposition. But more of that a little later. We have commenced the long, slow, hard job of putting this country back on its feet, as we promised we would. We said it would be a slow process. We said it would take 3 years, and if we stick to our program of financial recovery, if we stand resolute in our plans, then we shall have this country back to the road to progress and prosperity in the next 12 months or so. But we must not weaken. 
-I will be here a lot longer than you, my friend. The signs of a soundly based recovery being well on the way are clearly emerging. However, despite this , recovery, despite the huge development that has already taken place and will take place, I should like to draw the attention of the House to an anomalous situation. I refer to the inadequate communication facilities in a very large part of Australia. I speak of telephones, of radio and of television. Telephones are accepted today by the vast majority df people as being just another everyday aid to living, taken for granted in most households. They are used freely in business, they provide a link with one's neighbours, and in many cases they offer a tremendous security to lonely and isolated people. 
In remote areas telephones provide a vital and often life-saving link which gives the people living in those areas communication with the outside world. Telephones give families, particularly the women and children, a sense of security so necessary in remote areas. It is relatively easy for men to live in the bush, but for our women and children it is a lot harder. There is a very real fear that a simple accident or an illness can be fatal for a loved one. I know these people. I have lived in the bush all my life and I can appreciate their very real concern. I know the comfort and the feeling of security that a telephone or a 2-way radio brings to the people in remote areas. But so many people do not have a telephone and are now being prevented from having one, either because of the high cost of installation or the lack of forward planning by the Telecommunications Commission. I know of people who have waited patiently for 8 years and more and who have tried all means to have the telephone connected. They are willing to pay the huge capital sum required. Although they are only a few miles from the existing cable, there is still no program to connect the telephone for them and Telecom is unwilling to make any firm commitment to do so. 
I turn to radio. I refer to the ordinary broadcast band radio of either the Australian Broadcasting Commission or the commercial radio networks. Most of us have scant regard for the magic of radio. We have seen it grow from very small, static-plagued beginnings to the modern high quality reception we enjoy here in Canberra and in other capital cities. We have multichannel ABC networks and a good spread of commercial radio programs from which to choose. Now we have embarked on frequency modulation transmissions. All of this magical stuff we take for granted. With the flick of a switch we are able to enjoy the radio waves and add to the tumultuous din that pours out in our cities from the modern and sophisticated radio consoles or from the simple transistor sets. But alas, many people are not able to receive even a basic radio signal from either the ABC or any other network. Not for them the joyous music, the mid-morning serials or even the daily national news programs. 
There are vast areas of this land of ours where no satisfactory radio program is available. Also there are vast areas where very expensive shortwave radio sets may give a scratchy reception. Some of these people, who have endured this situation for long enough have decided that they would like to have a single channel transmittera very modest request- to keep them in touch with the outside world. On approaching the Government to have this deficiency rectified, they have been told that they can have radio but only if they pay for the total cost of installation and the running costs of the transmitters, the maintenance and the rental of the line from Telecom. This would necessitate an outlay of hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
I ask: Is this fair? These people are pushing out into the frontiers of Australia or pushed out there some time ago. They produce a great part of the wealth of this nation. They produce the wool, the meat, the fish, the iron ore, the coal, the nickelthe produce which makes life comfortable for city people. These people who endure real hardships to produce that wealth are now called on to pay totally for the extension of a service which everyone else enjoys as of right. Is this equality. 
Furthermore, I know of several large towns where people are unable to receive a television coverage of any sort. Not for them the pleasures of watching some of the excellent programs available to the great majority of people. Large towns, small towns; it matters not. Unless these towns had a television coverage before 1976 the residents have been told that they themselves must pay the many thousands of dollars to have the coverage extended. Why should we have 2 classes of people in Australia? Two classic examples are worth quoting. Both are in Western Australia. The first to which I refer is a small settlement called Salmon Gums. The community there is in the line of the present microwave transmissions running south from Norseman. These people were aware early that they might have to pay to have television coverage extended to their town. They understood that their share of these extensions would be in the vicinity of $26,000. They set about raising that amount of money. This they did. They now have it in the bank. Now they are told that they will have to find the total capital cost as well as the maintenance and running costs of the extension of the television coverage to their area. Yet that very same television transmission passes over their heads day and night in the microwave link. 
A further example is the town of Exmouth in Western Australia. I understand that it has the largest concentration of people in Australia not yet enjoying television. There are approximately 3000 people in Exmouth; yet there is no television. Another anomalous situation exists in this town. The town virtually exists because of a Commonwealth Government agreement. In effect the Commonwealth Government is the developer. Who should pay for the television coverage in Exmouth? We are asking that the developers of other towns, such as mining towns, to pay for television and radio extensions. It seems that we have created 2 sets of rules- one for the establishment of telephone, radio and television services before 1976 and another for the establishment of those services after that date. These facilities are supplied free, or almost free, to people in the metropolitan areas, the earlier settled areas or areas which are fortunately located geographically. For those who are participating in this great development drive, those who are producing the greater part of the gross national product and a very large percentage of our total export income, there will be no telephones, radio or television unless they are prepared to pay one way or another for these facilities. I sincerely ask the Government to reconsider this decision and to treat all Australian taxpayers on an equal basis. We are moving towards a new era of tremendous development, of a great surge of development that can take place only under the stewardship of a free enterprise Government. We have a proven track record of good management; sound and respected, leadership; strong, long term leadership unlike the temporary, fragile leadership we see in the Opposition. 
This week the temporary Leader of the Opposition has treated us to some of the most rude and ignorant actions and words we have ever witnessed. Whitlam has taken a hypocritical stance as regards our beloved Governor-General. One day  Mr Whitlam  says that he will ignore the Governor-General but because of his egotistical desire to meet the Queen, he depends on the Governor-General to introduce him. He insulted the Queen and disgusted all Australians by making a reference to her as a possible Queen of Sheba. He tried to denigrate the magnificent reception for the Queen yet he partook of the victuals. 
Meanwhile, back in the House we have been subjected to this charade of strutting and pouting of potential leaders of the Labor Party. We have witnessed the dismal performance of the honourable member for Werriwa who could not get a seconder in the Caucus for his latest move to be elected to something longer term than a temporary leadership. We have seen the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  performing like a trained Rosella parrot, his red breast flashing. We have noticed the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  lurking in the shadows; waiting, waiting. We saw the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  yelping like a trained seal: 'The economy is doomed. More taxes are needed. We need more of "Mudibank" '. We have watched the meteoric flop of the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who cried out for a republic. 'We need a new Constitution', he says, and 'Do away with the Senate'. Still the honourable member for Hindmarsh waits and licks his chops. It is going to be a delicious massacresome blood letting. 
I am aware of one Government supporter on this side of the House who likes a bit of a gamble. I believe he has suggested the running of a book on these latest leadership stakes. I believe he is accepting bets from all comers. But he is undecided as to who should be the favourite, whether it should be the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who is the most consistent  speaker  in the House-  Mr Rent-a-Mouth  himself -or the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the man with the brownest arms in the business. 
-I ask a question of the Deputy Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. Have there been recent discussions with the Japanese mission regarding salt and what was the outcome of these discussions? 
-Can the Prime Minister advise the House whether he has any plans to visit Washington within the next few months? What would be the purpose of such a trip if it does take place? 
-We have just heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  one of the most irrational discussions on a matter of public importance proposed by the Opposition that we have heard for quite some time. The subject of the matter of public importance does not concern the pros and cons of the mining of uranium. It refers to 'the Fraser Government's efforts to pre-empt and distort the uranium debate '. If ever I have heard a distortion of the uranium debate I heard it in the irrational remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. It is well known where he stands on this matter but it is not so clear where most of his colleagues stand and it is not so clear where  he stood just a little while ago. At least the Government has always been consistent in its approach to the rnining of uranium. It has stated quite categorically that whatever decision is made by the Government it will not be made before the second Fox report is received. 
I draw the attention of the House to what was said on 2 November 1974 by the then Prime Minister of Australia the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  in relation to the Prime Minister of Japan. He said: 

 Mr Tanaka expressed his appreciation of the confirmation of supply by Australia to Japan of the contracted 9000 short tons of uranium- 
Just 2 days earlier than that the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  had this to say: 
When Australia negotiates further sales it will do so as a willing seller seeking willing buyers. In particular, we will ensure that our major trading partners- Japan, Italy and West Germany- obtain an equitable share of the uranium we have to export. 
That does not appear to me to be consistent with the story we have heard today. On 16 October 1 974 the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said: 
International assurances have been provided by Ministers that Australia will meet the uranium requirements of our major trading partners, which could amount to a total of about 100 000 tonnes of uranium . . . 
-That was said on 16 October 1974. On 21 May 1975 the honourable member for Cunningham said: 
I stress and repeat, Labor honours its contracts and will always be in a position to do so. 
Is that consistent with the story we are hearing today? I quote from  Hansard  of 30 November 1976 what the present Leader of the Opposition then said: 
I make it clear that the next Labor Government will not feel bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the present Government. Let there be no misunderstanding about the attitude of my Party now or in the future. As a Government we inherited substantial contracts from our predecessors. One-third of the contracts were actually approved after the writs were issued for the elections of December 1972. It is one thing to honour contracts we inherited; we shall be under no obligation, in view of the questionable actions of our predecessors . . . 
He then went on to say:   no new mining development should be permitted unless a future Labor Government is satisfied that the hazards have been eliminated and satisfactory methods of waste disposal have been developed. 
The Opposition's case is emerging as one of the most inconsistent stories that I have heard for quite some time. The Opposition is charging the 
Government with pre-empting and distorting the uranium debate. At least we are consistent. On 11 November 1976 the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  who has just spoken in this debate, said: 
The preparation of environmental impact statements for uranium mining projects outside of the Northern Territory may now proceed but the Government will not make final decisions until the Commission of Inquiry has made its second report. 
In answer to a question in the Senate from  Senator Durack  on 4 June 1976  Senator Withers  said in part: 
Press reports in early June stated that the Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Miki,  had indicated that the Japanese Government was not giving any thought to nuclear waste facilities in Australia. I re-emphasise: Neither is the Commonwealth Government. 
There is a strong thread of consistency running right through this debate. At all times the Government has said that no decision will be taken until the second report is received. I turn to the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  to the National Press Club on 24 March 1977. 1 shall quote from this statement because this debate has arisen, I think, from some of the remarks of the  Deputy  Prime Minister. He said: 
It seems to me that we need a much more sensible and balanced approach to the question of the advantages and disadvantages of mining development. I can't help feeling sometimes that some people see mining as only a rapacious destroyer of the environment. Of course, the environment must be protected to the greatest practicable extent. No one disputes that. But there are many other things that need to be taken into account. There are many questions we ought to ask ourselves when we are contemplating a new mining development. Let me take, as an example, uraniumalthough similar considerations will apply to other minerals as well. What are the questions we ought to ask here? Certainly we should consider the implications for the environment of a decision to go ahead with mining- of any kind. 
Certainly, with uranium, the questions of waste disposal and nuclear safeguards must be adequately dealt with. But, as well, I think we need to ask questions about the economic implications for Australia of whatever decision is made about uranium mining and export. Is there going to be a nuclear power industry around the world regardless of whether Australian exports uranium? ... Is our national rate of growth so satisfactory that we can reject opportunity to improve our performance? And there are wider questions which apply in some degree to most minerals, but certainly to uranium. 
The Government's approach to the whole question of the uranium debate is an even-handed one and is always within the context of its decision to await the second Fox report. But that is not the case with the Opposition. If anyone has pre-empted the debate it is the Opposition. It has been at pains to point out that it will not permit  the export and mining of uranium. But the Opposition charges the Government with pre-empting and distorting the debate. Whenever there is to be mining development, particularly in uranium, the Government calls for an environmental impact study. These studies are on-going. This Government has brought down far more impact studies than the Opposition did when in government. To prove further the consistency of the Government on this question I turn to the  Deputy  Prime Minister's address at the Australian Mining Industry Council's annual dinner yesterday. Speaking about prosperity and uranium, he said: 
The issues are important. In purely material terms there is no greater economic potential in any area of activity in Australia than is inherent in our uranium resources. It can be argued whether our capacity to export will mean $400m a year or a billion dollars a year. It can be argued whether the investment to ensure this development will be half a billion or a billion dollars. 
The Deputy Prime Minister went on to say: 
There are international issues which are obvious. The solution to the energy shortage must be one of the world's greatest problems. The demands of so many of our major trading partners for uranium are real and valid. 
But he said also: 
Lest I be misunderstood let me say that I am repeating now what I have frequently said before. We must keep a balance in the uranium debate. The Australian public must focus on all the issues involved. In this I endorse thoroughly the remarks of  Mr Justice  Fox. The extremists on both sides must not be permitted to debase the tone of the debate. 
No one has been more consistent than the Government on this issue and at the same time no one has debased the tone of the debate more than the Australian Labor Party. No one is more inconsistent than the current Opposition in this House. Firstly, when it was in office it said that it could not condemn proposals to extract, process or export uranium. Now, of course, we have the whole question being thrown back and we on this side are being accused of distorting and debasing this debate. I completely reject the contention that the Fraser Government has tried to pre-empt and distort the uranium debate. 
-I welcome the statement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  as it has given us yet another opportunity to debate whether or not our uranium resources should be developed. I wish to speak to the motion moved by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and to the amendment. We have just listened to a nonsensical and scaremongering speech by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns). His  speech was not based on fact, it was not substantiated by expert evidence, and it was twisted in its approach. It was designed simply to install fear into people who are still trying to make up their minds. I suspect that the honourable member's motives are clearly designed to put obstacles in the way of the development of our nation and that his real aim is to promote some other lifestyle in our country. In pointing up the shortages and the shortfalls, in fact he made a good case for the development of new energy sources, particularly uranium. 
The present Government has always approached this subject with consistency and frankness. Members of the Government have been willing to debate the matter at every opportunity over the last 2 or 3 years in a sensible and balanced manner. We are willing to keep open minds on the subject, and my Government has consistently said that no firm decision will be made before the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry is received. All of the debate on this side of the chamber and all of the opinions expressed are made within the context of that understanding. When the time does come after the receipt of the second Fox report, the elected Government will make a decision on whether or not we will mine and process our uranium. I should like to speak about the possible development of the mining of uranium in Australia should the Government desire that the industry proceed. At page 70 of the first report of the Fox inquiry it is stated: 
Clearly, the development of nuclear power in the rest of the world can continue whether or not Australian uranium is made available. The evidence indicates that, if nuclear power programs proceed at the rate projected in 1976, additional uranium production capacity will have to be established in other countries to meet projected demands in the 1980s. Sufficient supplies of higher grade ores appear to be available for this purpose. Consequently, the unavailability of Australian supplies in this period would not make an appreciable difference to the average price of uranium. 
It would seem that the availability of Australian uranium will have little or no effect on the ultimate development of power generation by nuclear means. I quote again from the first Fox report. On pages 1 79 and 1 80 it is stated: 
A total renunciation of intention to supply designed to bring an end to all nuclear power industries  or  all further developments of them would in our view be likely to fail totally in its purpose. 
Apart from financial consideration, which are not to be neglected, there are considerations to which we referred when dealing with the topic of proliferation. A total refusal to supply would place Australia in clear breach of Article IV of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and could adversely affect its relation to countries which are parties to the NPT. These matters might not have been of any concern at all had we not advanced our preparations for uranium mining to the stage they have now reached, so that our readiness and ability to supply within a few years are now obvious. We are of the view that total renunciation of intention to supply is undesirable. 
On the evidence available to us no country with an expressed intention to buy Australian uranium will in the meantime be dependent on Australia, in the sense that supplies at reasonable cost could not be obtained elsewhere. Japan is perhaps the country most likely to need Australian uranium and it has already contracted for supply of all its requirements until 1985, almost entirely with countries other than Australia. 
Furthermore, many countries throughout the world, including Asia, have firm commitments to develop nuclear power generation. I quote from the publication  Nuclear Power Developments in Asia and the Pacific: 
According to statistics compiled by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission (AAEC) there were 150 nuclear power plants operating in 19 countries at 30 June and a further 337 units were under construction or on order. Thirty countries, including for the first time a number of developing countries, had a firm commitment to nuclear power for energy generation. In the Asian and Pacific region India, Iran, Indonesia, Japan, Pakistan, the Philippines, South Korea and Taiwan all have commitments. 
They are forced to this situation by the desperate shortage of fossil fuels throughout the world and the immense dangers which are inherent in burning fossil fuels, particularly coal. Almost daily people are dying from the pollution effects of coal fired power stations. Yet no one is getting emotional over mining and burning of coal. Its a bit like the terrible carnage on our roads. Because it happens every day no one seems to care any more. Nonetheless the hazards of coal fired power stations have not diminished. In fact there is every reason to believe that the  CO2  catastrophe is possibly the most portentious aspect of our entire long range energy policy. It is my belief that once the  CO2  problem becomes widely understood, even given all the uncertainties, it will become the single strongest argument for turning to the nuclear alternative. Most scientists viewing the accelerated burning of fossil fuels now agree that  CO2  will warm the earth's surface temperature significantly. It seems improbable that the opposing factors would nicely follow. I quote again from  Nuclear Power Developments in Asia and the Pacific: 
In 1975 oil supplied 45 per cent of the world's primary en ergy (including that used to generate electricity), coal 30 per cent and natural gas 1 8 per cent, nuclear energy contributed only 1 . 8 per cent. Installed capacity of nuclear power stations has grown rapidly since 1970. 
But I am so far only talking about the possible mining and export of uranium subject to acceptable safeguards and only after the Government has reached a decision following the receipt of the second Fox report But even from mining and exporting of uranium the benefits to Australia are immense. 
At this stage I quote from a paper by J. M. Silver and W. J. Wright. They state: 
The main point, however, is that irrespective of the assumptions used the mining and export of uranium could make a substantial contribution to Australia's future economic well-being. 
I quote again from the paper of J. M. Silver and W. J. Wright because they give some interesting facts: 
The uranium industry could be earning about $3,000m per annum at projected prices or about $ 1,000m per annum in 1975 money values. These values should be compared with the current earnings from wool exports of about $800m, or mineral exports of about $2,600m; 
The uranium industry could be employing about 2300 people directly and probably supporting a similar number of people in the provision of consumables and operating services; 
A labour force of 3000-3500 would be engaged in construction projects in the industry for the decade 1980-90. The indirect labour required in other industries to support these construction projects would be at least 3000 people; 
The construction of these plants would require about $ 1,750m (in 1975 money values) to be spent by 1985; 
The wages bill in the industry could be about$100m per annum, equivalent to about $35m to $40m in 1975 money values. 
Honourable members can see that this is not of insignificant importance to Australia. The mining, milling and export of our low grade uranium deposits, principally by open pit methods of mining and a leaching process of upgrading is entirely safe. I know of an area where kangaroos and birds are constantly drinking water direct from an open pit in an uranium ore body with no ill effects. I also know that people have been drawing water from bores that have been sunk in uranium bearing ore for over 50 years with still no ill effect. But in any case honourable members can rest assured that the Federal Department of Health, after consultation with Federal and State government departments, trade unions, trades and labour councils, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and mining Companies, has developed the world's most stringent code to govern the mining and milling of uraniumshould the Government give permission for mining to commence- subject to receiving the second Fox report. 
We hear so much from highly emotional but uninformed members of the public putting forward views that mining of our uranium will lead to genetic mutations and all sorts of strange illness. This is not supported by medical fact and so far a search to find such genetic mutations in the populations of Hiroshima and Nagasaki has been unsuccessful. If such mutations were going to appear then surely these 2 cities would be likely breeding grounds. These horribly misleading stories are deliberately promoted by emotionally unbalanced people who have scant regard for the truth. In fact, their one common objective would seem to be to prevent the proper, sensible development of our country and the maintainence of our high standard of living. To talk of a 2-year moratorium is utter nonsense. The uranium debate has been going on now for over 30 years in Australia and the expert knowledge available in Australia is second to none in the world. 
To say that the decision should be made by any group, whether environmental or other, outside Parliament is fundamentally wrong. Even the Fox report states on page 185: 
We suggest that the questions involved are of such importance that they be resolved by Parliament. 
I submit that this elected Parliament is the only competent body to make such a decision. 
There are some points I would like to make in conclusion. Firstly, there are no plans to introduce nuclear power stations into Australia. Therefore, there will be no nuclear wastes created in Australia. Secondly, all that has been talked about to date is the possibility of mining, milling and exporting uranium subject to the receival of the second Fox report. These activities do not create any nuclear wastes in Australia. Nor will any conversion or enrichment of uranium in Australia create any nuclear wastes within Australia. The responsibility for the disposal of nuclear wastes resulting from nuclear power generation lies with the countries which might purchase our uranium. Satisfactory methods already exist for the safe storage and disposal of wastes in consumer countries overseas. The waste can be fused into a vitreous glass which is unaffected by the elements. These glass rods can be safely stored in properly constructed deep silos. 
Conceding that there are proven reasons which would preclude our mining and exporting of uranium, I ask: Will there be a nuclear power industry around the world, including in Russia and China, regardless of whether Australia mines and exports uranium? The answer is clearly yes. Over 30 countries are already committed to nuclear power generation programs irrespective of Australian uranium. Is the Aus.tralian economy so strong that we could deny ourselves the clear economic benefits that would flow from the mining and export of uranium? We could not. Are the economies of local remote regions so well based that these regions can turn away from the benefits that the mining or uranium or some other mineral can bring? The answer is clearly no. Is our employment situation so good that we can ignore the new jobs which a mining and export go-ahead on uranium would create? I say that it is not. Finally, with the mining and export of uranium in Australia we have the opportunity to delay the development of the fast breeder reactor and the plutonium society with all its attendant dangers. By the devlopment of our uranium, we may be able to safeguard significantly the welfare of mankind. 
-I would make a couple of comments to just pick up the remarks the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  made in relation to the Premier of 
Western Australia and the referendums. It would seem that it could be said that we were winning the referendums in Western Australia until the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  appeared on the scene. 
This Bill seeks to provide $3.2m of extra Commonwealth finance for roads in Western Australia for 1976-77. It also provides that State expenditure on payroll tax be eligible funding under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act and the Transport (Planning and Research) Act. It brings the level of assistance provided to Western Australia in 1976-77 up to that provided in 1975-76. Previously, under the principal Act, there was a shortage. It also has had the effect of reducing the matching grants for 1977-78 from $42. 1 m to $39.8m, and a decision has been made not to proceed with an increase of $2.1 m for the current year. The provisions of the Bill also extend to all States. The Bill will have a retrospective effect with regard to the payroll tax provisions to September 1971. The payroll tax provision affects the 4 nominated Bills and clarifies and ratifies the existing situation concerning the eligibility of State payroll tax expenditure to be included as State expenditure for the purposes of these Acts. In Western Australia it was stated that the acceptance of payroll tax for inclusion in matching funds until 30 June 1977 is a decided advantage. The generosity of the Commonwealth Government in providing these extra funds is certainly appreciated by Western Australia, particularly by the rural local government authorities in that State. These funds have been in excess of the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads. 
There has been a marked increase in the amount of Commonwealth funds available for roads in rural areas. I shall cite a couple of examples. The Shire of Boulder in 1975-76 received total funds of $398,284. In 1976-77 it had available for its roads $421,444. In those 2 figures there was a Commonwealth grant. In 1975- 76 the amount was $206,314 and in 1976- 77 it totalled $277,941. That is a fairly dramatic increase. I shall cite another couple of examples to illustrate that this is the general trend. For instance, in the Shire of Carnarvon, out of $279,931 available for roads in 1975-76 the Commonwealth proportion was around $133,445. In 1976-77 out of a total expenditure of $245,005 the Commonwealth contribution was $208,605, which is a fairly massive proportion; it is somewhere in the vicinity of 75 per cent of the total amount. For the shire of Mingenew, out of a total expenditure of $118,881 there was a Commonwealth grant of $32,577, and in 1976-77, out of a total expenditure of $126,181 there was a Commonwealth grant of $49,939. 
So honourable members can see that there has been a dramatic increase in the amount of Federal funds made available for rural roads in local government areas. This has also been reflected in the allocation for rural roads, particularly arterial roads and national highways in rural areas throughout Western Australia. There is no doubt that the Commonwealth has played its part in providing a massive direct infusion of money for roads in Western Australia. This is generally the picture. I have carried out research into almost every local authority in my area- I think there are 36 local authorities- and the picture is the same. There has been a substantial increase in the amount of Commonwealth money available. To say otherwise is nonsense. There have also been massive increases in the amounts of funds available to local governments through local government assistance grants. The local authorities can spend this money on roads if they so choose. It is given to them free of strings. I have a further list of specific grants to local authorities in those areas, if anyone is interested. 
At the same time there has been a decrease in the amount of funds available for urban arterial roads in Western Australia from $22.59m to $ 13.7m. Admittedly, this has placed great strain on the Government of Western Australia and it has had an overall effect on the available funds. Personally, I do not disagree with the action of cutting government expenditure on the freeway systems and of spending more money on rural roads and roads in isolated areas. For many years, before I became a member of this House, I advocated such a course of action. I suggested that more money should be spent on roads in areas in which a great part of the wealth of this nation is generated. These are areas where there are many miles of roads and few hardworking people producing our export wealth. I ask honourable members to remember that I say this in the context of the Government's present constraints on spending, with the present total financial thrust towards getting the economy under control with responsible government spending. 
I believe, as a whole, that this has been a very generous Commonwealth approach to the road problem in Western Australia. This assistance should also be seen in the context that the Commonwealth Government has previously been funding the freeway system in Western Australia to the extent of approximately 85 per cent to 90 per cent of the cost. We believe that if any State government places such a high priority on its freeway system, we should ask that State government to be prepared to pay at least half the cost in order to back its judgment. I am strongly in favour of increasing the amount of funds available for roads-as honourable members might well have heard- in rural and isolated areas. These funds will go part of the way towards maintaining real growth in road funds in rural areas as well as for the State and local governments in Western Australia. It is significant that 
State and local government authorities in Western Australia contribute less when compared with their counterparts in other areas of the Commonwealth. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which illustrates this point 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications would recall that in February he ordered a feasibility study into the possibility of providing television services to the towns of Exmouth and Onslow. Can he now indicate the results of that study? If not, can he indicate when the results will be available? 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of a claim that the Australian Government has committed itself to supply uranium before any of the customer countries have committed themselves to safeguards? Has the Government made such a commitment and what exactly is the position? 
I would like to put the record straight in relation to retrenchments in Kalgoorlie and Kambalda. It is unfortunate that the mining industry has its ups and downs and it is even more unfortunate that people like the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  take some delight in other people's misfortunes, particularly in reference to the retrenchments in Kalgoorlie, Kambalda and Scotia. The honourable member completely misrepresented the case at Question Time today. I deplore the actions of Labor politicians in making political mileage out of other people's misfortunes. Incidentally, I did take the trouble to try to notify  Mr Beazley  that I was going to speak on this subject tonight. If the honourable member had taken the trouble to check the facts with the local member he would have seen that the Federal Government and the State government together have shown a good deal of concern over this matter. What is more, these two governments have acted swiftly to ensure that hardship is minimised at Kalgoorlie, Kambalda and Scotia. If the honourable member for Fremantle has as much genuine concern for the unemployed in Fremantle as I and this Government have shown for the unemployed people of Kalgoorlie he could hold his head high. 
The facts are that the State Liberal government and the Federal government acted immediately to set up a special task force to seek out jobs for anyone retrenched from the mines. Several special officers from the Commonwealth Employment Service and the State Industrial Relations Bureau moved to Kalgoorlie, Kambalda and Scotia and set up special offices in those centres. They registered potential unemployed, sought job placements, advised all people involved of their entitlements and the possibilities in regard to retraining and relocation programs. These were well reported in the local Press. It is fairly significant that the manager of the CES office at Kalgoorlie said today that staff should be able to place most of the semi-skilled and unskilled workers who had registered. Two hundred and fifty dismissed men registered with the CES confirmed today that all tradesmen and skilled men had been placed. Retraining courses, which had started last year for men put out of work by cutbacks in gold production, may be available to nickel workers sacked by the Western Mining Corporation Ltd. This announcement by  Mr Grayden,  the State Minister, was reported in the local Press on 2 September. 
More than 100 vacancies in Western Australia and the eastern States were notified to the CES in Kalgoorlie. These related to the retrenchments in that area. These included positions with the Agnew Mining Co. Pty Ltd, Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd, Goldsworthy Mining- all from the Pilbara Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in Whyalla, South Australia, including 40 unskilled positions, EZ Industries, Tasmania, Westrail Norseman and companies in the metropolitan area. A recruiting team led by a  Mr Green  from the EZ Company of Queenstown, Tasmania, has just left Kalgoorlie. He wished to recruit at least 22 hard rock miners, 1 1 tradesmen and one cost clerk. When he left yesterday he had signed 15 workers, mainly hard rock miners. So a lot is being done in the Kalgoorlie area to alleviate the hardship being caused by these retrenchments and no one is more aware of this than I and this Government. On top of this the State Government of Western Australia has announced a scheme to employ unskilled people. This scheme will be operated through local shires. The Boulder Shire Council has drawn up a list of 19 potential projects and skilled vacancies that would be suitable for financial assistance under stipulated State Government regulations. The State Government has requested the Kalgoorlie Shire Council, the Boulder Shire Council and the Coolgardie Shire Council to submit works projects for consideration for assistance. The State Government will pay the wages provided the councils use existing plant and equipment and provide materials. 
On top of this, in response to a request by the Mayor of Kalgoorlie to  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Street  to visit Kalgoorlie, two very senior officials from the departments of those Ministers are today in Kalgoorlie investigating the situation to see what more can be done. It is realised, of course, that it is impossible for both  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Street  to be in Kalgoorlie at this time. They took the next best step available to them and sent two senior officers from their departments. It is apparent that the Government of Western Australia and the Federal Government in Canberra have taken every possible step to alleviate the hardship. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In view of the fact that the Prime Minister was in the Kalgoorlie electorate in Western Australia over the weekend, I ask him: Can he inform the House the relative financial position of State and Federal governments? 
It is a long time since I have heard such utter political tripe and bovine bulldust as we have just heard from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  This Government, unlike the Government of which the honourable member for Port Adelaide was a member, does have a good record in management, honest government and performance. The honourable member for Port Adelaide said a great deal about the unemployment figures. I should just like to bring some of the facts to the attention of this House. Under the Labor Government, that is between 1972 and 1975, unemployment rose by over 140 per cent. It is fairly significant that the honourable member for Port Adelaide cannot stand the strain, as has now left the chamber. Incidentally, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who brought this matter before the House, also does not seem to have the courtesy to stay here and stay with the subject; he cannot take the truth.  (Quorum formed). 
I was making the point that it is fairly significant that the Leader of the Opposition, who brought this matter forward for discussion, does not even have the courtesty to come into the chamber and listen to the replies. I was saying also that under the Labor Government, between December 1972 and December 1975, unemployment rose by a staggering 140 per cent. The number of unemployed rose from 136,769 to 328,705, or 5.4 per cent of the work force. In contrast, from August 1975 to August 1977, the only other two complete years for which figures are available, it rose by only 34.5 per cent. It is obvious that this Government has been doing its utmost to contain unemployment. So the massive rise in unemployment occurred under the Labor Government. The people will not forget that the Whitlam Government was a dishonest government. It is still the same old party as we knew previously and which will be facing any election, whenever it may be held. The people of Australia will not forget that. 
The performance of this Government has been quite remarkable. For instance, we have brought about the most far reaching tax reforms this country has ever seen. It is significant that from 1 February about 90 per cent of taxpayers will pay only a standard rate of 32c in the dollar, with no tax being paid on the first $3,750. My colleague mentioned pensions. Pensions have been coupled to the consumer price index and, as promised by this Government, the increases will e paid twice a year. But what about the Labor Government and its promises? The Labor Government said that it would look after this country. I cite a couple of instances. The air navigation charges were increased under Labor. In its last year of office, the Labor Government promised to raise the charges by 300 per cent. As a result, a majority of regular passenger transport networks went out of business and a lot of people are now unable to get their mail or to travel in the outback and rural areas of Australia. We immediately took this in hand and, under the present Government, increases in air navigation charges have been of the order of only 15 per cent. 
Honourable members opposite talk about economic management. This Government has a tremendous record in economic management. The consumer price index is now at a reasonable figure. It is now a single digit figure. Obviously we have a lot more work to do on reducing inflation, and this is a government that will be able to do that work. There was a tremendous breakthrough when this Government gave massive increases of money by way of family allowances to the poor people, to the people who really need it. The Government has made a turn-about in this area. It has re-implemented incentives for the exploration for petroleum and minerals. Some of the incentives introduced by this Government have now started those industries moving again. We have seen progress and massive development since his Government came to power, with the investment of about $ 14,000m in new projects. When in government the Australian Labor Party was quite adamant that it would allow the mining and export of uranium. For instance, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said: 
Since we have taken over the administration of the policy in this area, particularly in respect of uranium, we have said that we intend to export as much of it as we can. 
What is Labor's position now? The then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  said: 
Those uranium deposits which do not concern Aboriginal lands and the mining of which complies with proper environmental conditions into which public inquiries are about to take place will of course be available for export and in due course for processing within Australia. 
It is significant that this Government, after considering and implementing all the major recommendations of the Fox report, has decided to allow the mining, milling and export of uranium under the most stringent controls. The honourable member for Port Adelaide referred to the purchase of a car but he did not mention the fact that the present Leader of the Opposition, when in government, purchased a Mercedes car for more than $30,000. I think that it is fairly significant that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  snowed a lot of restraint in purchasing a car which cost only about $16,000, in escalated money terms. 
It was Australian made, which is even more important. The present Government said that it would not re-implement the tax on gold. I am pleased to say that that promise has been carried out and that gold remains not taxable. The Government said that it would implement section 23P of the Income Tax Assessment Act. This will be a great incentive to the prospectors of Australia. I believe that legislation is presently being prepared to carry out that promise. The Labor Government had a record of destroying the mining and rural industries. In fact it knocked the guts out of this country. There is no question but that this Government has re-established incentive. This 
Government has consideration for those industries. We have seen and we will continue to see a revival in this area. 
I wonder what sorts of promises the Leader of the Opposition made to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to get him to resign. We have heard a little about that today. I wonder what sort of promise the Leader of the Opposition made to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to try to convince him that he ought not to run for leadership or to knock the Leader of the Opposition off in the leadership stakes. I reiterate that, under this Government, we will see a revival. We will see great confidence regenerated in this country. The memory of the terrible, hard years under the Whitlam Government will make people shudder for a long while and the effects of those three years will be reflected in the polls for many years to come. I believe that this Government will govern the country in an honest and stable manner for a long time to come. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
It gives me pleasure to be able to speak in this cognate debate, but I should like to confine my remarks principally to the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3). The Bill provides for the reinstatement of the income tax exemption in respect of income derived from the sale, transfer or assignment of the right to mine for gold or certain prescribed minerals and metals. The exemption provision, formerly known as the section giving exemption to the income of bona fide prospectors, will provide for exemption along the same lines and in respect of the same minerals and metals as the earlier exemption. The reinstated exemption will apply in respect of income derived after 25 October 1977, other than income derived under a contract let on or before that date. Together with gold, the metals and minerals that will come within the scope of the new exemption are those prescribed in income tax regulation 4AA for the purposes of the former exemption under paragraph 23 (p). I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  the list of minerals so prescribed. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister inform the House whether any progress has been made in talks with the British delegation led by the British Minister of State in the Department of Energy,  Dr Mabon,  in regard to the supply of uranium? Were those talks affected by the outburst from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition attacking the Leader of the British delegation? 
It is fairly well known that paragraph 23 (p) of the Income Tax Assessment Act was done away with by the previous Government about 1973. This caused a great deal of concern in the mining and mineral industries throughout Australia. It had the result that over 18 months approximately 120 exploration companies left Australia for countries such as Fiji, Brazil and Argentina, claiming that there was a more stable form of government in those countries than we had in Australian between 1972 and 1975. It had a dramatic effect on the minerals industry. It had a dramatic and devastating effect on prospectors for base metals, minerals and gold throughout Australia. It is with this in mind that the present Government is reinstating that exemption. This was an undertaking given by the Government prior to the 1975 election that it is now honouring. 
The previous Labor Government paid scant regard to the windfall income which was derived by the prospectors and which was exempt from tax under the previous paragraph 23 (p). The chances of obtaining this windfall reward were something like 1,000 to one. The previous Government took no heed of the many years- in fact, in most cases the lifetime- of hardship and deprivation of living in the bush and looking for minerals. If one in those thousand was fortunate enough to find a viable ore body, then previously under paragraph 23 (p) the sale of the mining rights to that ore body were exempt from taxation. Between 1973 and 1975 they were not exempt, and this caused a downturn in mining and a tremendous downturn in exploration activity, with the result that the mining industry was turned back some years. 
Basically the proposed new paragraph 23 (pa) will give the same exemption as the former 23 (p). The new exemption will provide for income otherwise exempt under paragraph (pa) to be limited to the excess of that income over the deductions allowed or allowable under Division 10 in respect of exploration and prospecting expenditure in the relevant area. It will also provide that the exemption under the new paragraph 23 (pa) does not apply where either the vendor or the purchaser of the mining right has the power to control the activities of the other party to the transaction or where any person has the power to control the entry into the transaction of both parties to the transaction. As with the former paragraph 23 (p), this latter limitation will apply in respect of the sale, et cetera, of a right to mine a prescribed metal or mineral but will not apply in respect of a sale, et cetera, of a right to mine gold. 
Sub-clause 3 (2) provides for the commencing date of the new exemption. It will apply in relation to income derived after 25 October 1977 from the sale, et cetera, of a right to mine, other than income derived in pursuance of a contract made on or before that date. I think this is a very reasonable approach to the subject. There is no retrospectivity attached to the reinstatement of 23 (p). Proposed new paragraph 23 (pa) will give great impetus to the exploration scene throughout Australia. There is already evidence that exploration for minerals, gold and metals is picking up throughout Australia primarily because of the taxation incentives already offered, particularly to companies. But most of these exemptions and incentives are not available in their present form to the ordinary, everyday prospector. It is well known that the bulk of mineral deposits throughout Australia have been found over the years by the individual prospector. Very few have been found by highly specialised companies. Mostly the prospector finds the ore bodies, and they are subsequently developed by companies. The prospector has been able to achieve a once in a lifetime windfall reward by selling mining rights to those areas. I am of the opinion that there are still vast areas of minerals and gold to be found in Australia. This measure should offer sufficient incentive to give prospectors that little bit of extra kick to keep the minerals industry viable for many years to come. 
It is with great pleasure that I take part in this debate in favour of the reinstatement of paragraph 23 (p) which was a Government undertaking given in December 1975. 1 make it quite clear that this was a policy undertaking and is not something that has been thought of quickly or brought on in a rush prior to another election. I comment briefly on a couple of remarks made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in relation to the taxation system in the few minutes which I have at my disposal, The revolutionary new tax rate or flat tax system will benefit all taxpayers in Australia. Despite what the Opposition is saying on this matter it is quite clear that every taxpayer in Australia will pay less tax under the new system when compared with the old. There is no question about that. In fact, approximately 90 per cent of taxpayers will pay only 32c in the dollar. This is a very significant benefit to the taxpayers of Australia. The figures cited by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in fact graphically illustrate the need for a new tax system. It is this new tax system that will be applauded by Australians in the corning weeks and in the future in great anticipation of it being implemented in February. 
The investment allowances which were criticised by the honourable member were of great benefit and were one of the major factors in allowing for the development of the North West 
Shelf gas project in Western Australia. Without those incentives it is unlikely that the North West Shelf project would have been viable. The main criticism coming from the Opposition in relation to these Bills seems to be because the Government has made a tremendous amount of progress in bringing the economy under control, in allowing for incentive, in allowing for that little bit of personal initiative so that the individual who wants to work a little harder and earn that little bit more will not be unduly penalised by additional tax levels. He now has that incentive. 
-I rise to speak in this debate because of my great interest in this matter. It is interesting to note that the Opposition threw away an opportunity to speak on this matter. 
That the honourable member for Blaxland be heard. 
The implications for Australia's policy on uranium production and nuclear safeguards of the views of  Mr Justice  Fox released yesterday. 
The only person who can put the official view on that point is a Government Minister. In this case a Government Minister rose. The procedure which has been followed consistently is that the Government states its policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The points made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are possibly most interesting but unfortunately they are completely irrelevant. All I have said is that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition took a certain stand and made a certain statement. I am not arguing with that at all and I have said that four times. The logical thing now is that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie should receive the call. The sooner we get on with the matter the better. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker- 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would enable the honourable member for Blaxland to be heard. 
-Do I have the call,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Obviously this is a ruse to use up my time. Because the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is making such a show let me cite what the honourable member said in 1975: 
We are prepared to give the Japanese any amount of fuel that they need, enriched if we can do so. The only thing is that we would like to do the enriching. Instead of sending just yellowcake at bargain basement prices we want to get the profit that comes from enrichment. We do not want the stuff to be sent to the United States- 
-I would like to repeat what I said. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I would like to repeat what I was saying when I was so rudely interrupted. The honourable member for Blaxland said: 
We are prepared to give the Japanese any amount of fuel that they need, enriched if we can do so. The only thing is that we would like to do the enriching. Instead of sending just yellowcake at bargain basement prices we want to get the profit that comes from enrichment. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland. He continued: 
We do not want the stuff to be sent to the United States or the Soviet Union or any place else where Japan may choose to have it enriched. A good offer is before Japan. It can come in with Australia on enrichment if it wishes. If it wants to wait until we develop the technology and secure the capital, as we have the raw material, it will wait too long. The Japanese should get off their tails and move into this undertaking. 
That was said by the honourable member for Blaxland. It is fairly significant that the main anti-uranium program is being run by the  Tribune,  the Australian communist weekly newspaper. It is fairly significant that it is heading the anti-uranium program throughout Australia and it is also significant that the Australian Labor Party's policy on uranium is practically non-existent. It changes from day to day. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Blaxland are well on record- 
I draw to the attention of the House the situation in Western Australia in relation to road funds. I raised this matter briefly in a speech at another time, but I think that it needs elaboration. Western Australia's sparse population and its very long roads create problems of which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  would be aware. It is good to see him sitting at the table, listening very sympathetically to the debate. Western Australia has been faced with ever-increasing problems because the percentage of total road funds provided in Australia has been deteriorating. We ought to look at factors other than population. We ought to look at things such as the amount of income and the benefits generated for Australia. 
Communities in the Pilbara area of Western Australia generate some 1 1 per cent or 12 per cent of the total export income of Australia. They ship out huge tonnages of iron ore, but the people are living under fairly harsh conditions. They do not have a sealed road anywhere near them. The only sealed road goes up the coast to Port Hedland. There are no inland sealed roads in the Pilbara area. Those people pay huge amounts of money in income tax, sales tax, road maintenance tax and all the other taxes, but they do not gain the benefits of satisfactory roads in their area. They have to travel 400 miles over very rough gravel roads. At most times they have to drive with their headlights on in the daytime so that they can see out of the potholes. They cannot even enjoy a trip to the coast. Some of their children have never seen the sea. In those areas the temperature rises to about 48 degrees. Not long ago I took the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to the Pilbara when the temperature reached 48 degrees Celsius. The Minister saw the situation there at first hand. I hope that some day the Treasurer will be able to visit some of the more remote areas of my electorate and see the difficulties under which the people live, particularly the difficulties caused by lack of sealed roads. We have a problem there. The Western Australian Government is trying to stretch the sealing of roads to the greatest extent depending on the funds available. Although the population in the south-east corner of Australia is deteriorating, people in that area are reaping the benefit of past, historic percentages. We should really be looking at where the development is taking place, where the action is, where the export income and export commodities of Australia are being generated and mined and we should be willing to put a little more of the percentage into those areas to alleviate some of the very severe problems of roads. 
The Kimberleys area of Western Australia is completely cut off at the present time because there are no sealed roads in that area. The people have been without perishable commodities for some weeks now, and it will be at least three weeks and possibly six weeks before road transport gets anything through. I do not believe it is fair that a whole section of the Australian community should be completely cut off because we are not able to provide them with a sealed road and the return of a fair share of their tax money. That is the thing that is bugging most of the people in those remote areas. They are not frightened of paying their taxes. They fully realise their responsibilities and their obligations to support the total government budget of Australia, but in return they would like the return of a fair share of the tax money in the form of road funds and in other forms such as money to build air strips and taxation zone allowances. We are looking at a severe situation which will deteriorate if we continue to disburse the funds on the present formula. 
It gives me great pleasure to take part in this debate tonight and to respond to the Speech delivered by the Governor-General on 21 February. In that Speech the Governor-General mentioned a good cross-section of the achievements of this Government over the previous two years. He also outlined the strategies which this Government would adopt in the forthcoming three years. The Governor-General mentioned such things as the tremendous advantages flowing to the Australian people from the tax cuts implemented by the present Government and from the actions which we took to keep the rate of inflation down to almost manageable levels, realising and recognising that we have a long way to go in this field and expressing the determination of the Government to carry forward the policies which have proved so successful. Even today I took some heart when I read of the determination of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case. This decision augurs well for the policies of the Government in the coming months. The Government should receive credit for what it has done in this field. 
The Governor-General also mentioned the rural industry in his Speech. He outlined some policies which the Government would implement in this area. In particular he mentioned the establishment of the Australian Rural Bank and fuel equalisation. I shall refer to some of these items during my speech tonight. I draw to the attention of this House the desperate plight of the rural industry in a large section of Western Australia and indeed throughout Australia. At present with the price of commodities not at viable levels and with ever-escalating costs of production many producers are being squeezed out of the industry. Many more producers are suffering very real hardships. To complicate matters a very large area of Australia has now experienced two years of one of the most severe droughts that this country has ever known. Two consecutive years of drought have prevented the growing of crops. People who depend on wheat and grain growing will face disaster unless in this third year they can borrow enough money to enable them to grow crops from which they will be able to recoup some of the losses they have suffered in past years. There have been losses of between five million to seven million head of sheep in the western parts of Australia and that alone will cause tremendous hardships for many years to come. It is not possible to breed five million to seven million sheep overnight. The price of beef has reached completely uneconomic levels and the outlook for this product is not good. 
The cumulative effect of these disasters has resulted in severe unemployment in the rural areas of Australia. People have moved from the country districts in which they have traditionally worked and this has had an effect in small country towns on small businesses and shopkeepers who have depended heavily on a viable farming community for their existence. The movement of labour away from country towns is a trend that will be hard to reverse because even if the drought broke tomorrow and prices picked up a little many people who have found alternative employment in metropolitan and other areas would not be willing or able to return to their traditional place of employment. The farming areas and rural communities of Australia are in a period of severe downturn. Some business people- shopkeepers and manufacturers- in these areas are facing very real hardship. 
Pastoral stations- not regarded as part of the normal farming community- throughout the vast area of Western Australia are in an even worse state. They have, by and large, faced three years of drought. Except for some periodic, spasmodic and localised rainfall there has been no relief from three solid years of very substandard rainfall. Some stations that have previously carried 15,000, 17,000 or 20,000 sheep or the equivalent numbers of cattle, today are down to 2,000 or 3,000 sheep. Such low stock numbers will not permit the owners to get a reasonable return in the foreseeable future. A vast pastoral industry is centred in the pastoral areas of Western Australia, western and northern South Australia and other areas, but because of drought, the employment situation and vermin such as dingoes, many people are being forced off their properties. In fact, it has been reliably reported that more than 30 per cent of the pastoral properties in the Pilbara area of Western Australia are today abandoned. As properties are abandoned pressure is put on adjoining properties which become the front line in the fight against drought, the dingoes and the existing hardships that go with these problems. Unless there is a period of substantially increased rainfall and reliable years and the provision of long-term low interest finance to farmers through the Rural Bank the pastoral industry will feel the effects of the present disastrous drought and low commodity prices for many years to come. 
One possible way by which some of the hardships could be alleviated and people on the land returned to better times would be to restore tax deductibility for water conservation projects such as boring, dam sinking and the provision of pipes and tanks. Not so many years ago a 100 per cent tax deductibility was provided for these items in the year in which expenditure was incurred. Most of these items today attract tax deductibility of less than 10 per cent in the year of expenditure. This would be a major form of assistance. 
I am pleased to see the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  sitting at the table. I am sure that he recognises the hardship that is being suffered by people in the rural areas of Western Australia. I know that the Treasurer is a sympathetic man. I make a plea that the Treasurer and the Government seriously consider the restoration of a much higher level of tax deductibility for water conservation projects. This is a matter of grave concern throughout all of the inland areas of Australia. All the people of Australia will benefit from water conservation projects. All the people will benefit from the storage and utilisation of water. Earlier today we debated a Government proposal to grant $200m for use in water conservation projects throughout Australia. I put it to the Treasurer that an increase in the level of tax deductibility for water conservation items to at least 50 per cent and preferably to the old level of 100 per cent in the year of expenditure would do a great service to the rural community of Australia. 
I am pleased to note that the Government has made a firm decision to implement fuel equalisation throughout Australia. A promise was made to this effect prior to the last election and I am confident that some action will be taken on this matter in the next few days. It has given me much pleasure to know that the Government, which gave this firm undertaking before it was elected with such a huge majority, will now carry out its promise. This is something for which I have been fighting ever since the old scheme was discontinued. 
I am fully aware that the Premier of Western Australia has made a detailed submission to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for assistance for a very large drought-declared area in Western Australia. The Premier has proposed some detailed, far reaching and helpful methods of assisting the people who live in that area. It is a huge area that is greater than the total area of New South Wales. It is contained in the outer farming and pastoral areas of the Murchison, the Gascoyne and the eastern goldfields areas. The people in t!i2.t  area are  suffering real hardship. J fully support that submission. 
The question of fuel equalisation brings me to the question of energy conservation. Australians have enjoyed an energy-rich life ever since this country was first developed. The energy crisis and shortage throughout the world does not come home fully to the people of Australia at any time. We have not yet realised the severe implications of the crisis which faces Europe, North America and other areas. Because we are so fortunate with huge reserves of coal and other fuels, and now of course with uranium, it does not mean that we can turn our backs on the energy crisis throughout the world. We have noted that the exploration for oil has picked up dramatically around and within Australia. There has been intense competition for the permit areas for oil exploration off the west and north east coast of Western Australia. This has not been by accident. The previous Labor Government had declared war on the multinational companies, on mineral and oil exploration generally. It has taken us two full years to reverse the situation. The taxation incentives and special tax measures which were announced late last year by and large have been instrumental in attracting many world wide companies to the oil exploration scene within Australia. 
Even though we have huge coal deposits in Australia we must press on and develop our just as huge and extensive uranium deposits. I am pleased that the people of Australia, and particularly the union movement, are now coming around to realising that they have a part to play in the development of that huge uranium province and uranium industry. I am not saying that it will create an enormous number of jobs. I think that has been well canvassed in the past. But the benefits to Australia are immense. The expenditure and construction phase of both the uranium and the petroleum industries in the next few years will have a marked effect on the Australian economy. 
Keeping in mind all our good luck with energy resources I mention also what I regard as a hypocritical situation concerning energy and fuel. I refer to the emission controls on motor vehicles. I believe that the present emission controls on motor vehicles in Australian conditions are completely unrealistic. It is interesting to note that they have been brought about largely by three State governments- New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania- legislating to adopt the relevant conditions laid down in Australian Design Rule No. 27A, which is in fact almost a copy of the emission control standards laid down in the United States in i973 and now vastly superseded. It is also interesting to note that the pace throughout the world in adopting severe emission control legislation has been set by Japan and the United States. This legislation was brought about principally in an era when even those two countries did not really realise fully the significance of the shortage of oil and the impending crisis. The controls were also brought about because some 4,000 people died in a smog in London in 1952. 
Conditions of that kind do not apply in Australia. Yet for some insane reason we have adopted the standards that have been laid down in Japan and the United States, which in themselves are contradictory and not consistent. Of the three State governments in Australia that have introduced this legislation, New South Wales for instance has opted for 0.64, 0.45 and 0.40 grams of lead per litre standards in metropolitan areas only, whereas in Victoria the standards are 0.60, 0.50 and 0.45 grams per litre. In Tasmania a completely different set of figures were adopted: 0.64, 0.55 and 0.45 grams per litre. So there is no consistency in this. But because a vast number of the motor vehicles in Australia are utilised in the eastern seaboard capital cities these requirements have had the effect of forcing manufacturers to build vehicles which comply with the emission control standards which would apply in Sydney and Melbourne. 
I believe that even in Sydney and Melbourne we do not experience the conditions which forced the United States and Japan to implement such severe emission control legislation. In fact there is ample evidence that the possible health hazards from lead additives in petrol are so controversial that there is no simple answer. Nobody can agree that the standards laid down are either safe or are dangerous, or that they can be achieved by complying with. Australian Design Rule 2 7 A. To me the whole question is hypocritical. We ought to be designing vehicles for use under Australian conditions. With the present methods of emission controls we suffer greatly increased fuel consumption, greatly decreased motor vehicle performance and very doubtful benefits from the legislation. In fact there is ample evidence that the conditions laid down in Design Rule 27 A will not achieve the levels as spelt out by the various governments. I ask this Government to look seriously at doing something constructive about the emission control regulations on motor vehicles, easing those conditions and designing vehicles which would be specifically for Australian conditions. 
Talking of motor vehicles, in the minute left I shall deal with roads. In Western Australia we have a sparse population but an enormous area and length of roads. When our Treasurer is formulating a Budget in this coming year I sincerely ask him to keep in mind that whilst we have a low population we generate an enormous amount of export income from commodities from Western Australia. I ask him to make greater and better provision of funds for roads within Western Australia in the coming year. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
It is very cheering indeed to note that the Opposition now has some new-found interest in energy conservation in Australia and some new-found interest in developing new energy methods and means. It was well known that during its period of government the Labor Government did more to destroy the incentive for companies and individuals to seek new energy sources, to explore for oil, gas and so on. It is also interesting to note that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  appeared to be talking abject nonsense in relation to costs of power generation. I am very interested to know who, in fact, wrote his speech. It was quite obvious that his speech was written long before the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  delivered his speech here in which he made several points quite clear. The honourable member for Robertson was unable to put several points in the right context even though he had just been acquainted with the facts by the Minister. I was very surprised to see him continue to read such an ill-written speech. 
The present Government has done more to conserve energy, to formulate an energy policy and to carry out that policy than any previous government in this country. We have the oil industry moving after three years of complete stagnation. It is well known that two years ago, following three years of Labor Government, there was only one oil drill working off the Australian coast. There are now several oil drills working off the Australian coast. It is expected that 50 to 60 oil wells will be drilled around Australia in the forthcoming months. We have implemented taxation concessions of a magnitude that will allow investment and will encourage investment of Australian capital in Australian companies. It is significant indeed that a large number of permit areas around Australia have been released for exploration in recent months. In every case there have been far more applicants than permit areas. It is also significant that in almost all of those permit areas there is an Australian company within the consortium. So there is an incentive to keep the energy field within Australian interests. A great deal of interest has been shown by Australian companies and Australian personnel to be involved in such exploration. It is recognised, of course, that the necessary major capital items do need farm-in agreements with major multinational companies. 
We have encouraged research into the liquefication of coal to oil. It is significant- this has been reported in today's Press and in last week's Press- that at least two State governments are having negotiations with South Africa to seek the methods it uses to liquefy coal to oil with a view to setting up major industries within Australia. Some of these applications could lead to an industry worth $2,000m which is not a small investment and is not a small plant. Such a plant could produce up to 50,000 barrels of oil a day. 
It is well known that Australia leads the world in solar energy research. This fact is recognised. The research carried out by several arms of commissions and government instrumentalities in Australia is recognised throughout the world as a major breakthrough. For instance, I refer to the breakthrough by Telecom Australia in relation to the solar energy research it has carried out. It is well recognised that Australian research into domestic water heating leads the world. People are coming from all over the world to look at our methods. In the past we have been a major operator in the field of tidal research. It is interesting to note tidal energy research is being revived in Australia now to see whether, in the present day and age, tidal energy can again become viable. When tidal energy research was carried out previously it was found then that it was not viable because of isolation and load requirements. 
We have encouraged natural gas exploration and development within Australia both on land and under water. It is now well known, of course, that the North West Shelf and other major gasfields- I refer particularly to those off the west coast, those within Western Australia and in the basins within Central Australia which are now being explored again after a halt of some three or four years- will be a major source of energy for Australia in the coming years. They will play a major part in conserving our meagre oil supplies and perhaps will alleviate our total dependence on imported oil in the future. We have a comprehensive and far-reaching energy policy, unlike the previous Labor Government which had hotch-potch policies of actually stopping development and stopping exploration. We saw this happen. It is not political rhetoric; it is a fact that exploration for oil, minerals and energy sources almost stopped. Yet, in the short period of two years, since coming to power, we have seen a complete revitalising of such exploration. We have seen a complete revitalising of development in the oil and gas fields. We have seen a major step forward in the coal industry. A major decision, of course, has been made on the question of uranium. If it were not for the Opposition's policies, and if it were not for the Opposition's followers of those policies, of preventing the development of uranium we would have seen some development already under way. We would have seen uranium being developed and the profits which would have accrued from that industry would play a major part in developing energy sources available to Australia. 
There is no question that this Government has a far better track record than the Opposition in the energy field- in energy research and in the development of energy sources. The Government commissioned three reports on energy. It received those reports only late last year. It is acting on them already and it will continue to act on them. It is interesting to note that the National Energy Advisory Council is now a full time body; it is not an ad hoc body as it was previously. It is advising the Government on an on-going basis. 
I think it is particularly pertinent to look at our fuel pricing policy. It was aimed specifically at conserving energy and at making people far more aware of the desperate energy needs of the world and particularly of Australia. The Government has also taken steps to alleviate and to even out the effects of that fuel pricing policy on the more remote consumer. We are in the forefront of the world's research into solar energy. We have done more research into tidal energy than almost any other country. We have been conserving and will continue to conserve our fuel, particularly our oil, gases and liquid fuels. We are very aware of our vast quantities of coal and we are taking steps to utilise these resources to the best of our ability. 
Finally, in Western Australia and in other areas of Australia we have major grain alcohol plants that have been turning grain into alcohol. That fuel has been used in transport throughout Western Australia for a long time. In the last two or three years it has been banked down because of rising costs. Its production is now reaching another interesting stage with the rising costs of fuel. I believe that there will be a great deal more emphasis placed on the production of fuel from grain. In Australia, and particularly in Western Australia, we are well equipped to carry out this production. We already have production plants; we have passed the pilot stage; we have passed the research stage. We can actually become productive again tomorrow as we have been in the past. The rising costs caused by the Opposition when it was in Government stultified that project. There is no question whatsoever that the present Government has a better track record in the field of energy than the Opposition and it will continue to do so. 
-In the few minutes at my disposal tonight I would like to bring to the attention of the House some misconceptions that have been floated more recently in relation to the Ord River project in Western Australia and to try to put the record straight. This project has been plagued with problems over many years. It was a very bold and imaginative project initiated quite some time ago. After the initial flush-of-success period the project almost immediately ran into troubles. These troubles mostly evolved around the problem of insects damaging crops and the inability of the farmers in the area to lower the insect numbers sufficiently to enable them to harvest a viable crop. It is well worth remembering that the Ord River dam itself has a capacity of 5,700 million cubic metres which is approximately nine times the quantity of water in Sydney Harbour. It is no small project. Over the last three years we have seen great strides made in the control of insects by biological means and almost with a complete absence of any chemicals such as DDT, parathion or anything like that. 
The crop results farmers have been achieving in the Ord River in recent years have been outstanding. I know of areas that have consistently been yielding 70 bushels of wheat per acre or over 150 bushels of wheat per hectare. Farmers consistently have been able to get 20 tonnes of sugar per hectare in 12 months. This is an enormous yield not only by Australian standards but also by world standards. Great strides have been made in the production of legumes such a mung beans and soya beans. These are showing great promise in the field of protein development. A good deal of work has been done and a large quantity of produce has been exported from the Kununurra area in recent years to supply pig and poultry feed to Darwin and Singapore. In fact, almost all of the pig and poultry feed used in Darwin is grown on the Ord River. There is a very viable and strongly established broom millet industry which employs a large number of Aboriginals in the area. 
All in all the farmers in this area basically have overcome the worst of the problems. I want to put the record straight because I heard in another place tonight people making all sorts of rash statements about the Ord River. Obviously they have not heard of, read or studied the situation which has applied in the last two or three years. One of the main pests in the area was the insect Heliothis. It grew 14 inches to 18 inches long and could destroy crops in its path. It is now able to be completely controlled with a parasitic wasp. If in the future insects such as the Heliothis are able to emerge in great numbers suddenly and the wasp is not able to cope with them there is now an established method to kill these insects by using bacterial spray. The bacteria kills the Heliothis and other similar insects but has no effect on the parasitic insect so we would still have a strong method of control by using the parasitic insect. All in all the Ord River is now facing a new, enthusiastic and exciting future. People who say this project is a white elephant and a waste of money are not conversant with the present situation. I would just ask them all to look at the facts. There are some well documented publications which set out the facts. A lot of very good research has been done recently which proves the viability of the Ord River scheme. I am confident that the Ord River and the port of Wyndham are going to play a major part in the development of foodstuffs for supply not only to South-East Asia but also throughout the whole of northern Australia. This project is going to be a viable proposition. It will be an attractive proposition again for farmers and the project will go ahead almost completely without the use or assistance of chemicals. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will recall an announcement prior to the 1977 general election expressing the Government's intention to extend the free connection radius of telephones from 12 kilometres to 16 kilometres. Can the Minister inform the House whether it is the intention of the Government and Telecom Australia to implement this program without qualification and, if so, from what date the extension will apply? 
I appreciate the fact that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  has forgone his opportunity to speak in this debate and has allowed me to say a few words. Approximately half of the benefits of this legislation will benefit the people of the Kalgoorlie electorate. I was very disappointed to hear the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  engage in muck-raking and delve into the depths of dirty politics rather than talk about the facts. 
-I deplore the fact that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports took such an unsavoury personal attitude in this debate, because this is a very serious matter. It involves people whom the honourable member for Melbourne Ports would have no opportunity of understanding. He would not understand the traumatic situations and the hardships faced by those poverty-stricken people who live in outback and inland areas of Australia. I also appreciate the comments of the honourable member for Frankliin  (Mr Goodluck)  who tonight put very clearly some of the problems as he sees them in relation not only to Tasmania but to all areas of Australia. There is no question but that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  misrepresented completely the situation in relation to this fuel subsidy legislation that we are debating tonight. Almost all the areas he mentioned were points of distribution. They are ports around the coast of Australia; ports which, in fact, enjoy the lower price of petrol; ports which will not be subject to any freight subsidy because there* is no freight charged from port to port. There is no question at all that the honourable member for Fremantle completely misrepresented this situation. He fails utterly to understand the high cost of living in areas like Wiluna, Halls Creek, Fitzroy Crossing and Laverton. 
-I could quote a long list of centres within Western Australia. There is no doubt at all that the honourable member fails utterly to understand the problems faced by these people. 
-There is no question at all that the subsidy scheme for fuel within Australia will benefit a large number of people throughout Western Australia. 
It is no good saying - 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am quite certain that I have not misrepresented the honourable member for Fremantle because he is concurring with every word I say. This legislation, which initially will subsidise the freight charged on fuel to the extent of approximately 4c a gallon in isolated areas of Australia, is only the first step in the Government's policy to bring the price of fuel in inland and isolated areas to within 2c a gallon or half a cent a litre of the normal retail price of petrol in metropolitan areas. I appreciate the action of the honourable member for Herbert in allowing me to take the time allotted to him tonight. It is significant that when the scheme is implemented the price, for example, of aviation fuel in the Townsville area will be within .56 of  cent a litre of the cost in metropolitan areas. In Tully it will be within 2c a litre and in Mount Isa it will be within 2.8c a litre. I want to make this point quite clear because this will be of immense benefit not only to the electorate of Kalgoorlie but also to all rural electorates of Australia. It is a matter that has been of great interest to all the rural electors of Australia and it is significant that it will not penalise the metropolitan electors. It will have no effect on the metropolitan prices of fuel throughout Australia. In fact, it is clear that the discounting which is presently taking place throughout Australia will continue to take place. We must be mindful, however, of the profits and problems associated with discounting in the metropolitan area. But we are not talking about discounting in the metropolitan area; we are talking about freight subsidies for the rural areas of Australia. 
The price of fuel in the rural areas of Australia flows into the price of almost every commodity in those areas. The farther out one goes, the higher the cost of the commodity, the higher the cost of production. Whether that commodity is going to the outback or whether it is produce that is being sold in the metropolitan area, there will be immense benefit from the fuel equalisation scheme. It is part of the Government's total approach to the energy problem. It is only one small part of the picture and it is very significant that the Government has taken this step which was part of its election promises. This Government will keep its promises. It has a track record of keeping its promises. The fuel subsidy scheme, as announced in the election policy speech in 1977, is today being implemented. Honourable members must remember that some of the oil companies have no intention of servicing country areas. They never have and they never will. Because of that situation other oil companies are faced with the prospect of ever-diminishing returns and the possibility of being forced to withdraw from country areas. 
There is no way that we can or should equalise totally fuel prices applicable in the retail markets in the metropolitan areas with the prices in the retail markets in the most remote areas of Australia. In my electorate, for instance, there are areas in which people presently pay in excess of 30c a litre or $1.30 a gallon. Honourable members can take it whichever way they like. That price would appear to be necessary at the retail outlet to allow that retailer a fair return on his outlay. Without some assistance there is no possibility of the normal retailer bringing his price to the same price as applies in metropolitan areas. The scheme which has today been introduced by the Government, will bring fuel prices in rural areas to within a reasonable limit of metropolitan prices. There is no question at all that this is an immense benefit to the rural producer. It will be of immense benefit in containing costs of commodities in rural areas. It will be of tremendous benefit to the ordinary average consumer in rural areas. Honourable members who live in metropolitan areas, particularly members of the Opposition, have no concept of paying $1.50 a gallon for fuel and of the effect it has on the everyday costs of living. Honourable members opposite have no concept of an average wage earner living on the basic wage in a very remote area having to travel hundreds of miles to obtain basic commodities and the most basic facilities; having to travel 200 miles to receive medical attention or to pick up his mail. Honourable members opposite have mail shoved into letter boxes but some people have to travel hundreds of miles. It is not uncommon for them to have to travel 300 miles to pick up their mail. 
-That takes petrol. The concept of having to pay in the vicinity of $ 1 .50 a gallon for fuel is out of the grasp of people like the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  or the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and others who live in metropolitan areas of the eastern seaboard. They have no idea of the total cost of living and the hardships that are suffered by people who live in remote areas. This equalisation scheme, which will bring fuel within their grasp, is a remarkable and significant form of assistance. Members of the Opposition would have no worries at all about forcing pensioners to pay $ 1.50 or $2 a gallon for fuel. 
I happen to live in that area and to know those people. I have experienced those conditions for many years. I have lived in that area for 28 years. I have seen more breakfast times than breakfasts. 
-That is more than the honourable member for Melbourne would have seen. 
He is laughing about the situation. There are poor people in this country. There are people who have experienced hardships. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I take exception to that remark. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your intervention on my behalf. It is clear that Opposition members are advertising their ignorance of this subject and the fact that they fail utterly to understand the tremendous costs faced by people in outback areas and the tremendously traumatic position in which they are placed. They fail to understand the benefits that this legislation will bring to people living in metropolitan areas. This legislation means that people in rural areas will be able to deliver their produce, their vegetables, fruit and eggs, at a greatly reduced cost than they have been able to do till now. When honourable members who live in metropolitan areas, although they fail to understand the situation, next travel on holidays there will be savings for them because they will be able to buy fuel at lower prices. When they travel into rural areas on holidays and enjoy the remarkable scenery and our magnificent holiday resorts, they will be able to buy fuel at the equalised price. Perhaps next Christmas when they are travelling on holidays, towing their caravans around Australia or travelling along the Eyre Highway, they will be able to buy fuel at a lower price in those areas than they can buy it today. 
This legislation is very significant to people in those areas who are trying to eke out a living despite the present high costs. The benefits of this legislation are immense. It may very well mean the difference between staying in business and going out of business for people in the pastoral industry throughout much of Western Australia. I support this legislation wholeheartedly. I implore the House to pass it by an absolute majority because it is vital to the people who live in these areas and depend on fuel so much. They are relying on getting lower fuel prices. This Government on which they depend has a much better track record than the Opposition in looking after and assisting the people who live in remote areas. I implore the House to pass this Bill so that the people living in my electorate and other remote electorates throughout Australia, particularly the electorates of Franklin and Herbert, can enjoy the benefits that this legislation will bring. 
-And Eden-Monaro, as my colleague has said. The legislation will be of immense benefit to these people. I completely reject the Opposition's amendment because it fails utterly to realise the benefits that will flow from the legislation. 

 Mr DAWKINS ( Fremantle)-! wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Is he aware of a report in the Wagga Wagga  Daily Advertiser  of 1 5 March 1978 concerning a conviction of a young man for drug use and drug pushing? The newspaper reported the presiding magistrate, after he was informed that the young man was moving to live in Western Australia, as saying: 
The community and the court were fed up with drug offences and that going to Western Australia was a good move because his time had run out in New South Wales. 
The newspaper also reported the magistrate as saying that had the defendant not been moving to Western Australia he would have faced imprisonment. 
I ask the Treasurer whether he has seen the gold medallion and gold plated spoon that are currently on sale in Kalgoorlie for $49? Can he confirm that the medallion is produced by the Royal Mint in Perth and is certified to contain 1/4 oz of pure gold? Is the Minister aware that a company called Australian Bullion Co. Pty Ltd is currently advertising for sale 1/4 oz gold ingots on a small gold chain at a price of $195 each or $780 per oz? Is the price fair and reasonable considering that gold is selling at approximately $ 1 59? 
I make it quite clear from the outset that I find it very hard to support this Bill. I support it only on the grounds that two commitments were made. Firstly, a commitment was made last year when the original Bill was passed to support the Mount Lyell operation until 30 June 1978 and, more recently, a pre-election commitment to support the operation of Mount Lyell until that date. I can support continued assistance to the Mount Lyell operation only until that date. Clearly, the people of Tasmania and the people of Queens- town who are involved in the Mount Lyell operation have to realise that every day a mine operates is a day closer to the end of its operations. In the case of Mount Lyell the end is nigh. I do not believe that a government should get into the field of blind support for an operation that is clearly uneconomical. It opens up a whole area in which I do not believe a government should be involved. 
The ore body at Mount Lyell has reached a point where it is not likely to become viable for many years. The grade of ore fell significantly. Even in recent years there was a drastic attempt to upgrade it or, in mine language, to high grade it. The ability to high grade Mount Lyell ore is now over. The level of high grading resulted in a rise in grade of only about 0.3 per cent. That is not sufficient to make the Mount Lyell operation viable. It is not likely to do so. I have spoken to a lot of people including miners from Queenstown involved in the Mount Lyell operation. They concede that the Mount Lyell mine as such is not likely in the foreseeable future to become a viable operation. Many of those miners are now in my area of Kalgoorlie. I am able to speak with them at some length. It is completely wrong that an operation such as Mount Lyell which has its hand out for a government subsidy is actively recruiting miners throughout Australia. It is not just a question of maintaining employment in Queenstown. The company is actively advertising for miners including trainee miners throughout Australia. The reason it is advertising for trainee miners is that if it employs nine of them it comes in for a special government subsidy under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training Scheme. 
There is so much wrong with the Mount Lyell operation that it should be looked at very seriously. I am pleased that the Industries Assistance Commission is carrying out an inquiry but I cannot personally support any form of assistance for the Mount Lyell operation in the form of a government handout beyond 30 June. I appreciate the points made by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and his colleagues and the sympathies that he has expressed in this matter, but I say to them that they must understand that the gravy train has stopped. 
It must come to a stop. There is a distinct, exact parallel in the case of Kalgoorlie and in the cases of Windarra, Laverton and Norseman. Why do not those areas qualify for a government subsidy? The mines closed down, all the employees in the work forces were retrenched and 90 per cent of those people lived in the adjacent towns. There is no valid reason for saying that we should be maintaining the Mount Lyell mining operation simply to maintain the people in Queenstown. I believe that the Queenstown area has great potential as far as tourism is concerned and an on-coast fishing operation could be established at Strahan which is not far away. I would rather see any government subsidy go into an area such as that or an industry that has long term viability to enable employment to be maintained there. The Mount Lyell precedent could lead us right into the Broken Hill South application relating to the Duchess deposit. That is another matter again. 
We will have problems if we continue supplying a subsidy. The level of subsidy available to the miners at Mount Lyell has amounted to approximately $7,000 a man during this period. That is $ 150 a week a man. That is not a bad level of subsidy. Where does it go? It goes as an open cheque to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd. It has gone down a hole. The Mount Lyell mining company, a subsidiary of Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd, would have been a viable operation if it had been properly constructed. It was able to shed its Renison Ltd and other holdings. It is interesting to note that Renison Ltd made a profit of $ lim odd which is sufficient to carry the Mount Lyell operation, but the principals of the Mount Lyell mining company are not prepared to commit any further shareholders' funds to the Mount Lyell mine. Why should the taxpayers of Australia do so? 
Unless we realise that Australia has to get off this gravy train, get away from the handout mentality, there will be no end to tax rises. The people of Australia, and, more particularly, the people of Tasmania, have to realise this. I do not believe that the people of Tasmania have been hard done by in the light of the facts- the assistance to the apple industry, the freight subsidy and other areas of assistance. I have been in favour of that assistance but I am not prepared to pour money down a hole in the ground. Coming back to where I started, every day a mine is operating is a day closer to its end. I do not oppose this Bill, but I heavily qualify its passage. I cannot support any assistance to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd beyond 30 June this year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question. I refer to a question I asked on 16 March in relation to extension of the free connection radius of telephones in country areas. Can the Minister now inform the House of the result of his discussions with 
Telecom Australia? Because of the intense interest of people in remote areas, can he inform the House when the pre-election commitment will be implemented? 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question. I refer to the dispute surrounding the shipment of live sheep, particularly from Western Australia. During the dispute was an approach made by the Western Australian Government to the Federal Government for assistance? What form did this approach take? Was the Federal Government prepared to provide any assistance? What form of assistance was planned? Was the Premier of Western Australia told that assistance would be forthcoming if needed? 
-The Treasurer will be aware that people in remote areas of Australia have expressed concern at moves by the Australian Taxation Office to update the implementation of section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Can the Treasurer confirm that the Government supports the Taxation Office in implementing the tax laws equitably and with commonsense and reason throughout Australia? Is there a special case for people living in very remote areas not to have the section relating to housing rent subsidy apply to them? What discounting factors are taken into consideration when assessing housing rental value? Would the Treasurer consider updating the remote area zone allowances or replacing them with some form of disadvantage rebates? 
I raise a matter that concerns many people in remote areas of Australia. It involves the taxation zone allowances or rebates. We are well aware that zone allowances have not been changed substantially since 1957 or 1958, although the allowance was changed to a rebate in 1975 under the Hayden Budget. Since then people have been disadvantaged by the low level of rebate which is allowed in remote areas of Australia. More importantly, the rebates no longer apply realistically to most of the very remote areas. There has been substantial modern development in some areas that are included in Zone A; whereas some areas which are included in Zone B or not zoned at present are far more disadvantaged. I am very pleased to note that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is at the table tonight, purely by coincidence. I have written to him today outlining some of the problems, as I see them, in various electorates. 
I submit to the House and to the Treasurer that zone rebates as we know them today are no longer realistic either in their levels or in their application in geographic areas. The geographic boundaries as we know them today ought to be done away with completely. The concept of geographic boundaries ought to be dispensed with and a new system of disadvantage rebates implemented, not with the specific object in mind of costing the Government any money - 
-This should not be done with the object of giving an advantage to the electorate of Kalgoorlie or any other particular area. I believe that a more equitable system of rebates should apply. It is obvious that Opposition members who are interjecting do not represent areas of disadvantage. They do not represent people who live in remote areas, the people who have to put up with the very real hardships of living in the remote areas of Western Australia, Queensland, the Northern Territory and other places. 
I put the point of view that we ought to do away with geographic boundaries entirely and establish a system of disadvantage rebates. This would apply equally to, say, eastern Gippsland, the west coast of Tasmania or the more remote parts of Western Australia and Queensland. I propose that a list of disadvantages, perhaps 12 in number, should be included on taxation return forms. Rebates at three levels ought to be allowed. At least four items of disadvantage would have to be scored to get the first level of disadvantage rebate. Eligibility for the second level would require the establishment of eight areas of disadvantage. We should look at such things as isolation, the high cost of living, remoteness, lack of communications, lack of suitable roads and all the other things that are taken into consideration when making up the present zone rebate. 
This would have a distinct advantage for people living in remote areas. They and the Government would very soon identify the disadvantages those people suffer. The Government would be able to verify them quite quickly because the same pattern of disadvantage would emerge throughout a particular area. The Government could then make a conscious decision on whether to spend money in those areas to overcome the disadvantages and so collect normal taxation or to reimburse people for those disadvantages and allow a disadvantage rebate. I believe that the present system is completely inequitable. Some people collect Zone A or Zone B allowances when living in areas which are graced with modern supermarkets and all the amenities under the sun. People living in far more remote and disadvantaged areas are penalised by not being able to claim any rebate whatsoever. 
I believe that initially the rebates ought to be pitched at such a level that, in fact, there would be no substantial loss of income to the Government; that a system ought to be established that would be equitable that would benefit, and be available to, people all over Australia. I believe quite firmly that this would overcome the problem, if there be one, of the constitutional validity of this taxation zone rebate as we see it today. The people are entitled to a more equitable and even handling of zone, and disadvantaged rebates. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is amazing to note the new-found interest in mining by members on the Opposition benches. It is amazing to note the somersaults they are now prepared to perform. The policies put forward by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  make it very clear that the general mining policies of the Australian Labor Party have not changed at all since 1972-73. During the period from 1972 to 1975 the ALP made concerted attempts to nationalise the mining industry by the back door. The policies which were brought down, such as foreign investment guidelines, controls over the mining industry and the abolition of tax concessions during that period, and the general thrust of the policies, resulted in most of the mining industry, most of the prospecting companies throughout Australia, leaving Australia entirely and going to places such as South America. In my electorate alone during the Labor Party's time in government 122 exploration companies left Australia. They were actively engaged in my electorate prior to that time. So it is hypocritical of members of the Opposition to stand here today and promote greater government control as a means of solving the problems in the mining industry. 
It is quite clear that the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is indeed sensitive to the conditions that prevail not only in the iron ore industry but also in the mining industry generally. Within the parameters of the philosophy by which we stand, of establishing strong free enterprise mining developments, we will see some progress in this matter. The honourable member for Blaxland says that he has the suport of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  for the ideas that he has put forward. The honourable member for Blaxland has put forward some pretty hairy ideas recently. In a whirlwind trip through my electorate he became an overnight expert on not only the iron ore industry but also the gold mining industry. In a very brief visit of one day's duration to gold mining areas in Kalgoorlie he became an expert. He knew of the problems and he knew how to solve them. He put forward ideas which in his opinion would have solved the problems of the gold mining industry. He said in fact that the whole purpose of his trip to the Kalgoorlie electorate was to facilitate the early re-opening of the mines on the Golden Mile. What a magician he is.  His  Party has not yet even attained government, let alone been able to influence any of the policies which might facilitate the re-opening of the gold mines on the Golden Mile. He is now an instant expert. He became one in 24 hours, just like that. 
I have lived with the problem for 28 years and I realise that the problems go a lot deeper than what the honourable member for Blaxland could have found out or put forward in one day. It was quite clear then and he made it quite clear again today in his comments on the iron ore industry- he appeared to concentrate on the iron ore industry- that he would nationalise that industry tomorrow if he had the chance. It is quite clear that he has no time for the negotiators of the various free enterprise companies. They are the people who live with the problems day by day, the people who are dependent for their very existence on their ability to negotiate. He proposes that public servants living in Canberra or elsewhere have a more intimate knowledge of the industry and its problems than those people who are engaged in the very running of the industry on a day to day basis. I say that that is bunkum. It is quite clear that those people who are dependent not only for their jobs but also for their very existence on the continuation of mining operations have a very great deal to contribute and know more about their industry than most other people in this country. It is also quite clear that this Government is very sensitive to those problems and is aware of the positions that those negotiators hold. I am quite pleased to see that there will be some progress in this matter over the ensuing months. 
The proposal that public servants would know more about the industry is absolute rot. There is no doubt at all that they have a nationalistic interest in making sure that the iron ore industry comes under government control. The Opposition pays scant regard to the long-term effects that its policy could have on long-term contracts. It might win a point in the very short term, but let us not forget that the iron ore industry in Western Australia will still exist and will still be viable in 100 years time if we do not have undue government interference. It is quite clear from the present policies of the Government of investment guidelines and of taxation concessions and from its track record of sympathy to the free enterprise way of life that this type of industry will continue in Western Australia for a darned long while. The Opposition pays scant regard to the jobs of some 10,000 or more people engaged in that area. 
-They have no regard at all for those people and their livelihoods and for the towns and businesses which depend on them. There is also the flow-back into the total community, into the total economy of Australia. The honourable member for Blaxland does not care about that. He would not care about the 40,000 or 50,000 people in my electorate who depend almost totally on the iron ore industry. Instead he says: 'No, wipe them off. Do away with those jobs, create more unemployment as we did in 1974'. That is the philosophy of Opposition members. That would be the result of their policies. 
-I will turn to the gold mining industry as I am prompted. I am reminded of some of the things put forward by the honourable member for Blaxland when he was visiting Kalgoorlie recently. He proposed a fixed price for gold. He said that if the price fell below a certain amount- he did not say what the level would be, whether it be $ 1 40 per oz or $ 1 70 per oz- the Government should give financial assistance. If the price rose above that level the Government should take the profits. If that is not direct government interference in nationalisation of the industry I do not know what is. The very fact that the price of gold has risen from $ 129 per oz to something in the vicinity of $ 1 80 per oz has given new life and new hope to the gold miners in Kalgoorlie. It has given new hope to the people who live there, those people whose livelihood depends on Kalgoorlie. They are looking with expectancy to a further rise in the price of gold. No, the honourable member for Blaxland would say: 'If the price rises beyond a certain level the Government should take it'. I believe that is rot. That would be reimposing all of the old conditions that broke the gold mining industry. 
We had a fixed price for gold for many years of 35 per oz. Because the price never rose above 35 per oz and because of the wage and price increases that occurred over that period, the gold mining companies gradually dried up, went bankrupt and went out of business. That was a direct cause for the closing down of the gold mining industry in Kalgoorlie. The honourable member for Blaxland who recently visited the area said that we ought to reimpose the fixed price for gold so that the Government can take the profits out of gold. If that were the case the mining industry could look forward to no hope of a rise in the price of gold. There would be no hope for the industry to redevelop. The honourable member also said that it would be optional only so that various companies may or may not take advantage of it. Other companies would be left out in the cold. There would not be a true stabilised price for gold. Obviously the honourable member's policy would result in a quite fixed price for gold. 
The people of Kalgoorlie totally rejected this outlook in 1975 and again they totally rejected it in 1977. 1 believe they will totally reject it again and again. It is quite obvious that the honourable member's poor old hackneyed supporters in Kalgoorlie are running up a gum tree. They are at their wits end to try to do something to upset the present member for that electorate and they cannot do so. One of the honourable member's errant supporters, in talking about companies, said that they would still be free to maximise their profits in a fixed price situation by increasing the grade or reducing the costs per tonne. He said that both avenues have some potential. The full mining industry utilised all of the avenues of reducing the cost per tonne and increasing its grade under the old system before the companies went broke and closed down. Now the honourable member for Blaxland and his supporters are saying: 'That is the avenue out of the situation at the moment. We will fix the price of gold and let the companies concerned cut across their profits by reducing their costs and raising the grade of ore.' I submit that the Opposition is in fact scraping the very bottom of the barrel in relation to this issue. It does not know what it is talking about, but it has made one thing very clear. Its intention to nationalise the mining industry through the back door has not altered and will not alter. I do not believe the people of Australia will be fooled for one minute. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who would be aware of the current political crisis in Iran. Can the Minister tell the House of the grave ramifications of this crisis for the Western world? Has the Government taken any steps to ensure the safety of Australian citizens in Iran? 
I rise tonight not to oppose the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd or Queenstown but to oppose in principle the reasons for granting this assistance to the area. Strange things are happening in Canberra these days. Assistance is on again, then off again. Kalgoorlie, Mount Lyell, Duchess, Cobar, Woodsreef, and Mount Magnet are all- affected. What is to be next? Will it be Greenvale or Mount Goldsworthy? I wonder. We go to all the trouble to set up Industries Assistance Commission inquiries and interdepartmental committees to discuss the results of those inquiries, all at great cost. 
The IAC is charged with gathering evidence independently and with gathering the facts of the case without emotion or bias. It then presents recommendations to the Government. It has made recommendations to the Government in regard to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. and other mining operations. However, we disregard these recommendations. Is it because we, sitting in this chamber, without having gathered the evidence, are better informed than those unbiased people who unemotionally have gathered evidence? I hate to think what the alternative reasons might be. If the Mount Lyell mine after receiving only short term government assistance will make huge profits again, why was not the parent company prepared to invest in the mine? The company, through its Chairman, recently said that it was so embarrassed with liquid funds that it was looking for investment opportunities. The company Chairman announced this to the Press on 24 October this year. Would not the Mount Lyell mine be an investment possibility, particularly if it is going to be so good in the long term, or are we going to continue to prop up uneconomic industries with taxpayers' money and allow shareholders in mining companies to reap the profits without taking the high risks? 
Why do the mining companies expect to accept high profits? It is because high risk capital is involved in investment in mining. Mining is a finite industry. The day the first tonne is dug from a mine is a day closer to the end of the productive life of that mine. It is significant that the assistance presently being agreed to for the Mt Lyell Mining and Railway Co. is due to end on 30 June 1980. At this stage, the development of the Mt Lyell mine gives that mine approximately two years' life. Without further massive infusions of capital for development the mine does not have a logical life beyond two years. The directors will tell one this. And we are prepared to support the mine for almost two years. What are we doing? We are kidding ourselves. Mt Lyell is not the real problem; it is only the symptom of the problems. In two years ' time we will have to make this decision again. We will face that decision hard, right on the nose. I do not believe there will be any chance of sidestepping it at that time. Really we have to look at what the directors of Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd have done in recent years with shareholders' money. They have separated the very profitable operations of Renison Limited and Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd. They are taking their huge profits and then expecting the taxpayers of Australia to pick up the losses. I ask: Is that fair? When next honourable members are talking to taxpayers, pensioners, old people and sick people who are wondering why taxes are so high will they be prepared to indicate support for every uneconomic industry thoughout this country? Are we prepared to pick up the losses when mines operate with high risk capital? I do not believe that we are. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  went off on a very emotional tangent tonight about Kalgoorlie. When he went to Kalgoorlie he was an utter failure. He was drummed out of town as a dead loss. He went there promoting a scheme of support for an uneconomic industry, advocating a fixed price for gold. He said that the Government ought to peg the price of gold at some mythical level and that the companies ought not to be able to take the profits out of gold but that governments ought to pick up the losses. He proposes to take all the initiative out of gold mining. He wants to socialise and nationalise the gold mining industry by back door methods. I do not believe that this is acceptable to the taxpayers of Australia. I do not believe that they have forgotten the debacle from 1972 to 1975. In Kalgoorlie the honourable member for Blaxland was a lone sheep bleating in the wilderness. The people of Kalgoorlie will not be hoodwinked by that sort of action. The honourable member would have us nationalise the iron ore industry and the goldmining industry. Is this what we are all about? I do not believe that we are. 
I believe that we should have been using our influences to convince the parent companies of Mt Lyell and Consolidated Gold Fields Aust. Ltd to invest some of the high profits from mining with which they are now embarrassed. Representatives of these companies have said that they are now embarrassed with the high liquidity situation and are looking for investment possibilities. This was reported in the Melbourne  Herald  and other newspapers on 24 October this year. I put it to honourable members that that is really the essence of and the answer to the Mt Lyell type situation. 
The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  earlier tonight asked: What are the alternatives? If we are going to use taxpayers' money to prop up uneconomic industries throughout the nation, surely we would have to be looking at the mining industry propping up the mining industry. What does that mean? That surely means the imposition of a resources tax. 1 reject that. I do not believe that that is acceptable. I do not believe that there should be a super tax or resources tax on a mining industry which should logically accept the high risks and certainly reap the high profits. We should not be imposing additional taxes on mining companies. But the mining industry must realise that if people in some sections of it are putting their hands out and prepared to take additional taxpayers' money and are being supported by taxpayers' money they will have to pay extra for it. The mining industry in general is not prepared to accept that. But more importantly still this 
Government, and any government, will be kidding itself if it thinks that it can continue to shovel dollars down a hole in the ground. 
I have nothing against the people of Tasmania or the people of Mt Lyell and Queenstown. I have visited Queenstown a couple of times. I spent a few days of my recent honeymoon there. Queenstown is a beautiful place. I had enjoyed it very much. The people there are friendly. In general- I must say this in all honesty- the people of Queenstown and those working in the Mt Lyell mine are prepared to pull their weight. They are not totally committed to putting their hands out and having them filled with government dollars. They are willing to do a decent day's work for a decent day's wage. But I believe we were wrong firstly in offering that sort of assistance to Mt Lyell and we will be definitely wrong if we continue to offer that sort of assistance in such mines as Woodsreef, Cobar, Duchess and others. I could go on to mention the situation in Mt Magnet where $ 1 .2m was all that was needed. In fact indications and feelers were put out for government assistance of $ 1.2m. I asked the people from Mt Magnet: 'Would it not be better to go to your shareholders for that $ 1.2 m?' They did, and they were heavily oversubscribed in one day. This occurred recently. Those people did the right thing. They got their $ 1.2m from the shareholders because they are the people who will reap the profits. The taxpayers will never reap the profits out of Mt Lyell. We ought to look very seriously indeed at the direction in which we are going in supporting uneconomic industries. 
-I direct to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources a question which relates to the same matter as that raised by the honourable member for Lowe, but which is different from that question and is quite specific. I refer to the Minister's recent announcement regarding' export control guidelines for bulk minerals. Will the Minister agree that Australian producers of bulk raw materials have been relatively well treated in the past by Japanese buyers and that the producers have a good record of development, using to good advantage their negotiating ability? In the face of mounting evidence that government interference in the market place will harm Australia's trading position in the long term, will the Minister now modify his statement, taking into consideration the overwhelming body of opinion, and bring his approach into line with the free enterprise philosophies of the coalition? 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware that the Seamen's Union of Australia, in support of one side of the ideological war in Vietnam, has placed bans on Chinese ships which load iron ore at the ports of Dampier and Port Hedland in Western Australia? Is he aware that those bans have so far been responsible for a loss in trade of approximately 150,000 tonnes of iron ore? WU1 this action by the Seamen's Union seriously affect Australia's reputation as a stable supplier of raw materials, and will it lead to a loss of contracts? 
It is very pleasing indeed to see the honourable member from the Opposition, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  display a healthy understanding of the problems of people in remote areas. It is pleasing indeed that he touched on many of the problems of which we who represent more remote and rural areas are aware. I certainly hope that the honourable member will cooperate with the Government when we are implementing the various schemes of assistance to these people. This Government has a good record of helping non-metropolitan and rural people. We have implemented a great list of items of assistance over recent years. These programs of assistance in fact are very beneficial to the areas concerned and the people living in those areas. 
To generalise, for a start we have the programs of freight equalisation, fuel subsidisation, lower telephone charges which were implemented last year and personal income tax sharing with local governments. Of course the assistance to local government in these areas has been massive. Also there are the growth centres programs, decentralisation development programs and road grants. One could go on. Of course underlying all this assistance to these remote areas is the Government action on the rate of increase of inflation. That has been singularly the most beneficial assistance to people living in remote areas. Governments must of necessity budget to expend funds on these programs of assistance so the Government must have control over the programs and over those expenditures. 
I believe that the motion which proposes the setting up of a committee of inquiry would in fact only delay the assistance available to those areas and would in fact effectively prevent the Government assisting growth areas under decentralisation programs until that inquiry wound up. We know just how parliamentary committees work. They go on and on. They find themselves in a permanent job and a permanent position. In this Government we want to get to the core of the problem and solve it immediately so that there is not a massive delay entailed waiting for a report of a committee of inquiry. That is one of the essential reasons why I oppose the setting up of this parliamentary committee of inquiry. But again I say that many of the points made by the honourable member for Corio highlight the problems as we see and know them. It is healthy that the honourable member for Corio is aware of these. I am sure that given the continued thrust of the present Government's policies in this area and the continuance of the decentralisation development programs we will see some substantial upgrading of the facilities in those areas. 
Under the present Australian way of life people move out to the remote areas as of choice. It is a free economy. People have freedom of choice to go to live there. They go there mostly for economic reasons- to earn their living because there are jobs there or because they want to establish farms or some industry. Governments, recognising that people have the freedom of choice to move to these areas, of course have an obligation for social reasons to implement policies that will establish and maintain certain national values concerning the quality of life. For economic reasons the Government has chosen to implement regional development policies which will enhance national development objectives. Recently we have seen a substantial number of grants, a substantial amount of assistance with long term employment possibilities, under the decentralisation grant program. This is a result of the fact that in 1977 the Decentralisation Advisory Board was established to make recommendations to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  on the suitability of development projects for assistance under the 
Commonwealth decentralisation development program. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was saying that the Decentralisation Advisory Board was established in December 1977 to make recommendations to the Minister for National Development on the suitability of development projects for assistance under the Commonwealth decentralisation development program. This is one of the more important programs that this Government carries out. It has been of immense value to various remote localities throughout Australia. The Board recommends the provision of capital funds for specific projects. Funds are usually advanced by way of loans but grants are also possible. 
For the reason that we already have machinery set up to advise the Minister and to advise the Government on the need for special assistance for people living in remote areas and special assistance for those industries and people in nonmetropolitan areas, I believe the setting up of a select committee as proposed by the honourable member for Corio would have the effect of delaying any government action in this area. It would have the effect of cutting off assistance now made available to those people because it would be necessary to wait for that committee to carry out lengthy investigations and to present reports. Of course, we all know what happens with standing committees generally. They tend to find themselves in a semi-permanent position and tend to look for something to keep themselves occupied. It might be many years indeed before such a committee reported. In the meantime, there is a desperate need to assist the people in remote areas. There is a desperate need to establish industries in non-metropolitan areas and in fact to assist the people who have chosen already to go and live in those areas. 
It was heartening indeed to hear the speech of the honourable member for Corio who is well aware of the problems of people living in remote areas. He seems to have a good grasp of the problems associated with living in nonmetropolitan areas. I congratulate him for the research that he has done in that area. This brings me to several items of assistance that presently ought to be looked at closely. Many people choose to live in metropolitan cities. They are not going to be encouraged to move out to isolated areas. We will not get this massive regional growth that we all desire. For instance, in a survey conducted of at least 30 per cent of factories in the Sydney area, the people working in those factories, gave their reasons for not wanting to leave the inner Sydney area. In descending order of importance they were: Access to friends and families, access to education, natural environment, social and recreational facilities, cultural facilities, community facilities, suitable housing and the big city atmosphere. We are going to be stuck with the big city atmosphere for a long while- for as long as we are going to be here in Australia. We are also going to be stuck with the fact that people who live in the more remote areas lack facilities. 
Of course, at the present time we have taxation zone rebates which previously were zone allowances. In my opinion, these are completely inadequate. They have not been altered since 1958, other than to change them from an allowance to a rebate in the 1975 Budget. Since 1958 they have not been upgrated in dollar terms. I believe that that is completely unrealistic. The zone boundaries are based on a mythical 26th parallel for most parts of Australia and that bears no relationship to the development, the remoteness or the hardships of the people. Firstly, in my opinion, we ought to do away with geographic boundaries. We ought to establish a list of disadvantages and a list of people who would be available to receive a disadvantage rebate or a zone rebate if they lived in East Gippsland, southern Tasmania or in the north-west of Western Australia. The level of that rebate would be judged in accordance with the disadvantages suffered in those areas. 
I believe that system would remove any constitutional doubt as to the validity of zone allowances or zone rebates. It would also give the Government the opportunity to identify immediately the areas of disadvantage and make a conscious decision whether to spend money by underwriting the lack of facilities, hardships and disadvantages or whether in fact to continue to forgo the tax at a given level within that area. It would put a certain amount of pressure on governments to equalise the standard of living throughout Australia. If that were coupled with the decentralisation development program in attracting and helping industries to establish in remote areas it would go a long way indeed towards removing some of the anomalies of which the honourable member for Corio spoke. 
He spoke at length about the anomalies that arise in all of the allowances and means of assistance, whether they be isolated children's assistance, the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance or other forms of assistance available to a great multitude of people in various areas and for various reasons. It is obvious that welfare payments of this nature must be coupled to a means test of some order so that the people who really need the assistance in fact really get the assistance. If there was no means test applied then a lot of people who really did not need the assistance would be able to get it. That would penalise those who did need it, because a lot less money would be available for them. The Government would find itself in a bind in having so much of its finances pre-committed in this area and it would find that such a scheme would be completely impractical to implement. 
Another area which was touched on and which I would like to mention very briefly concerns subsidised housing in remote areas. It is known that section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act allows the Commissioner of Taxation to assess for taxation purposes subsidised housing or low rental housing in remote areas. There is no question that there is a need for section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act in order to prevent abuses, mostly by well off people, very rich people, business executives, company executives and these sorts of people. So, there is a need for section 26E. It caters for a whole multitude of unearned income, not only subsidised housing. Early last year, the Commissioner of Taxation began to implement section 26E in a manner in which it was never intended. Several members of the coalition parties took immediate action in this area, both in Queensland and in Western Australia. We were able to subject that section to a government review, and we successfully prevented the Commissioner of Taxation from issuing assessments under that section. I understand that the matter is presently under discussion at Cabinet level. I am confident that fairness will prevail in this area. 
Those people who live in remote areas and who are fearful of receiving assessments under section 26E of that Act will in fact be dealt with equitably and fairly, in line with proposals that have been made by me and other honourable members on this side of the House. In fact, I have been given a categoric assurance by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that if necessary the legislation will be amended in this area if the Commissioner of Taxation persists in implementing this section in a manner in which it was never intended. Much more could be said on that matter, but I will not elaborate at this juncture. 
I come back to the motion before the House. The honourable member for Corio moved that a select committee be set up to investigate all of these anomalous areas of assistance, all of the difficulties which people find themselves in when they live in non-metropolitan areas. I believe that the setting up of such a committee would only delay government action in that area. It could effectively bog down the investigatory processes which the present Government has set up and would prevent much needed assistance going out to those people who need it so much. They do not want to wait until any select committee or any other committee carries out investigations. These people need the assistance now. I believe this Government has a good track record of providing such assistance. It has intentions of continuing to provide it and to expand that assistance where it is needed, particularly the remoter areas of Australia. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (2.25)-I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that a select committee be established to determine and make recommendations for the optimum cost efficient method of compensating people for the additional costs incurred from residence in nonmetropolitan areas. I would expect such a select committee to determine and make recommendations in respect of additional costs incurred from residence in the whole non-metropolitan area as outlined by the honourable member for Corio. 
However, my concern is based mainly on my knowledge of the additional cost incurred because of residence in rural and remote areas. In outlining some of those costs it seems to me that we have a responsibility to provide country people with better access to a large range of services normally available only to people in urban areas. If we are unable to provide those services and amenities we should provide some form of compensation. However, it is not enough merely to make these kinds of statements; some reply has to be given to some of the claims made by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter).  In his opening remarks he said that he did not agree with setting up further committees because the Government believes in identifying a problem and rectifying it. I think that claim is incorrect on two counts. I refer the honourable member to the  Australian  of 3 October 1978 under the heading: 
To govern, first form a committee. 
To one reading this report it is clearly indicated that the Government does believe in setting up committees. The article reads: 
The formation recently of a special committee of senior Ministers to oversee the industrial relations policy once again illustrated the Government's belief in the adage that two (or more) heads are better than one. 
Then the article goes on to outline the number of committees that have been formed: 
Australia also has a system of inter-government committees, made up of federal and State ministers and officials with common areas of responsibility. 
These groups, covering areas like transport, health, education, legal affairs and housing, meet regularly to ensure continued liaison between the different spheres of government. 
Apan from creating a mountain of paper work, government by committee represents a significant drain on the national purse. 
Then it goes on to set out the various committees. I claim that that indicates clearly that the Government does believe in setting up committees. 
The other part of the claim is that the Government believes in identifying a problem and rectifying it. I hope to be able to produce some evidence to show that the Government does not rectify the problems, that in fact the Government has shown long delays in many areas in even attacking the problems. I agree with the view put forward by the honourable members for Corio and Kalgoorlie that the zone allowance was first introduced with some of these main aims that the member for Corio put before the House, namely, to encourage amenities and services to remote areas and to pay some form of compensation to those people living in the remote areas. In addition to this, we have a responsibility to ensure that urban centres of the nation develop in balance with the environmental capacity of the regions where they are located. We have some kind of responsibility to provide alternative lifestyles for the population. We can only do this by providing equity and justice to people living in all areas. 
If proper assistance were available in nonmetropolitan areas it would have the effect of reducing the growth pressure on major cities. I believe this is of national importance because it will allow finance used in providing unplanned extensions of cities' amenities, such as transport, housing, et cetera, to be used in more gainful areas, in a way that would be of greater gain to the nation and more equitable to the individual taxpayers. 
Members of this House with country electorates know that the locations of amenties and services are more convenient for some people than they are for other people and that the quality is better in some areas than in other areas. Additionally- I think this is an important issuethe way they are financed is far from equitable. Where governments do not provide services and amenities in remote areas people tend to pull together to provide the facilities at great expense to themselves. I am thinking of pre-schools, kindergartens, hostels and these types of things. It is an injustice that people who live in remote areas should have to finance these things when in the metropolitan areas they are financed by the Government. 
How many times do we hear from people with country electorates about people making a comparison between the amenities and services in their area and those provided in Canberra. I would say that each country member, even if he does not get these comparisons every day, would be confronted with them at least once a week. Of course the comparison is made also of the cost involved to and tax level paid by the people living in these remote areas. This Government has to stand up to the fact that people living in these remote areas are often people who have been big producers in the rural industry but who, through droughts, failure of markets or something' to that effect- perhaps they have been miners or rural workers- have retired to live in that area. They have already paid their share of tax comparable with- if not in some cases higher than- that paid by people living in metropolitan areas. It is an injustice that they should be denied the amenities and services for which they have paid their taxes and which are provided in the metropolitan area. 
It is to the national benefit that many of these retired farmers, miners, rural workers and other people do remain close to where they have lived most of their lives with their families and friends. If they moved into the metropolitan area- an already overcrowded area- they would compete for work with those already living there. They would compete for housing and, in the case of those who have retired with some finance, they would compete with the young married couples for the scarce city building land. Therefore, it is of advantage to the nation to encourage these people to remain in non-metropolitan areas. But I believe the encouragement should be given in the right way. This is where I differ with the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. He has already pointed out many areas where he thinks some adjustment should be made. The honourable member for Corio has already pointed out other areas. There could be many conflicting views on this. A select committee should be set up. I concede the point made by the honourable member, namely, that the deliberations of these committees are too drawn out and that they take too long to present their recommendations. Just because this has happened in the past, it is no reason why we should not have a committee to investigate these matters and bring down a recommendation in a specified time. 
I believe that it is wrong to deny rural areas the amenities and services given to urban areas. In buoyant economic times the people in the rural sector have accepted that they must provide their own amenities and services. We all know that this has happened. It must be admitted that in times of need during those buoyant periods many rural people could afford to transport their families to other centres that could deliver the required services. But it should be remembered also that, when they had to use their own finances to reach these services, they were already provided in metropolitan areas at the taxpayers' expense. Country people pay their taxes and they too should be entitled to have these faculties available. But very few of them have these facilities today due to the dramatic downturn in the rural economy. Many services and amenities are now out of the reach of people who live in country areas. Of course, this is particularly so in the field of communicationtelevision and radio. Many families who are denied these amenities, particularly those with sons and daughters of employable age, are forced to migrate to the urban areas. 
I believe that today an uncertainty and lack of confidence exists which has never before been encountered in country areas. There are many problems which confront the country people. A good many of these problems stem from the mismanagement of this Government or the refusal of the Government to take notice of the complaints and real problems of people and do something about them. I do not want to be diverted for too long but let me instance a few of these problems. The crippling brandy excise hike is causing hostility and confusion in the grape growing areas. Thousands of tons of grapes are rotting on the vines. The citrus growers also have problems. This is another area in which some action on the reports of committees is long overdue. The citrus growers are waiting on a government decision on the Industry Assistance Commission's recommendation in respect of tariffs on imported citrus juices. The growers are at the stage where they do not know whether to reinvest in their orchards or to prepare themselves for bankruptcy. This is the kind of thing that is happening in country areas. The huge fuel price hike also is causing many problems. 
One problem that concerns me personally is the treatment of the people living in country areas following the recent redistribution of electoral boundaries. I think it would be wrong to say that the Government has not done anything about this matter because it has. But, unfortunately, when the Government provides one benefit it seems to take another two away. I refer to the extra allowance which was given to members from country electorates. It allotted us extra money and extra use of charter aircraft. But in my case, the Government also removed one electorate office. There were two electorate offices previously. One has been closed and two staff members have been dismissed. A distance of 700 kilometres separates the two offices. The people in that area are not receiving the proper attention that they should receive from their federal member because the second office is no longer operating. These are the types of difficulties for which people should be compensated and about which the Government should take some action. It has only recently been brought to my notice that there has been a cutback in the number of provincial newspapers supplied to honourable members in Parliament House. Honourable members who represent big electorates need to receive provincial newspapers from several areas because of the different industries in their electorates. However, we are allowed to receive only two newspapers. This is the type of help that is needed by people in country areas. People should be compensated for the things they do not have. I ask the Parliament to support the motion before it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. The question is that the motion be agreed to. Those of that opinion say 'aye', against say 'no M think the noes have it. 

Question resolved in the negative. 
-Is the Acting Treasurer aware of the continuing speculation on a March cash loan and also the widespread speculation that the Government proposes to implement a tax on gold? Is he aware that a decision could be made in the very near future which might result in the reopening of the gold mines on the Golden Mile in Kalgoorlie and elsewhere? Because of the effect on investment in this possible reopening, can he assure the House that the Government has no intention of imposing a tax or excise on gold production in Australia? 
-I support the motion of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  There is no doubt that life exists in the woman's womb from the time of conception. No  speaker  here today or yesterday has been able to disprove this. No  speaker  has been able to say that life does not exist after conception. None of the speakers opposed to the Lusher motion can say that abortion does not destroy a life. Those in favour of abortion are prepared to kill an unborn child and they console themselves by saying: 'Okay, but it's not a very big life'. It is significant that the speakers in favour of abortion are not able to speak about the live foetus. They put it out of their minds. They speak only of mother and child. They speak of doctors' opinions, of the mother's mental or physical needs and the stress on the family. They do not speak of the live foetus. They speak of women's rights. They speak of the rights of women to control their bodies. Those women have no right to have their unborn children murdered. 
The number of abortions is not really significant. It is no better to kill 10,000 than it is to kill 60,000. Because of the changed circumstances figures quoted by various members do not stand any meaningful comparison with even last year or the year before. If an unwanted child is born it is much better to have it adopted by those thousands of people crying out for children and who are unable to have them. The proabortionists use the small number of extreme cases of pregnancies resulting from rape, incest or disease, to justify the murder of a foetus. They ignore the thousands of healthy children who would have otherwise be born to healthy mothers. The mother does not have the right to destroy a life just as no man has the right. 
The Lusher motion is not about the rights or wrongs of abortion, it is about whether the Commonwealth Government should use taxpayers' money to pay for these abortions. The Government should use these funds to assist people to a better standard of living and to help a live foetus to mature and live a full life. By using taxpayers' money to pay for abortion the Government is taking a step in the direction of making a judgment on who lives and who dies. Once we do that we are entering the fields trampled by Adolf Hitler and Idi Amin who took unto themselves the right of life or death over thousands of human beings. Surely the ultimate obligation of the Government is to protect the lives of those people including the unborn. It is not its duty to help to destroy lives. 
I reject the motion by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  as it will give tacit approval to open slather for abortion on demand. The motion by the honourable member for Hume would bring some respect into this whole sordid business. The good old fashioned values upon which we have based our whole civilisation, our whole existence, should not be jettisoned because some women believe they have the right over life and death. They do not have the right to kill an unborn child, an old person or a cripple. Respect for lives of other people and the unborn foetus distinguishes us from animals. I support the amendment of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and endorse his remarks made earlier today. I support the motion by the honourable member for Hume and will vote accordingly. 
I would like to make the point tonight that I was totally misrepresented by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in the speech in which he claimed that I supported the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and was against the fuel freight subsidy scheme implemented by the Government. I totally reject that contention. I believe that it is a despicable and deplorable attitude by the honourable member for Prospect to take advantage in what I would regard as a mean way of a speech very late at night to try to impute that I support the honourable member for Franklin in regard to something which I totally reject. In fact, the fuel freight subsidy scheme has been of immense benefit to the electors and industries of my electorate. It has been of great concern and interest to the people who live in the Kalgoorlie electorate and it is demonstrably of advantage to them. The misrepresentation was along the same lines as the misrepresentation today by Opposition members of the stand taken by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  There is no difference in their attitude. They tend to stretch the truth and to misrepresent the facts to the point where attitudes, beliefs and truths are distorted. I want to place on record once and for all my total support of the Government's policy in regard to the fuel freight subsidy scheme and the fact that it has been, is and will continue to be in the future of immense benefit to the people of the Kalgoorlie electorate. That has been demonstrated. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls saying in recent times that the Australian Labor Party is a party of high tax and financial irresponsibility. Is he still of that opinion? 
-Is the Minister for National Development aware of a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 5 June that the New South Wales Prices Commission wants the Federal Government to change its oil pricing policies? Does the Government have any plans to give preferential price treatment to New South Wales oil consumers or Launceston gas consumers? Is the Government's present pricing policy working? Has it been any incentive to exploration? 
-It was amazing to listen to the pipe-dreams of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The Government makes no apologies for its fuel pricing policies and its energy policies. At least we have comprehensive pricing policies in the energy field. The Opposition has no such policies. Not one item which came from the lips of the honourable member for Blaxland gave a positive indication of a policy which the Australian Labor Party or a Labor government would put forward in future. The Labor Party has no policies at all relating to pricing. The only possible alternative would be rationing or shortages of fuel. There is no doubt that the honourable member for Blaxland, in all his ramblings, ravings and dreamings, had nothing positive to say. He has been living in dreamtime. He has been out on cloud nine somewhere. There are no worries about our policy. It is very comprehensive and positive, unlike the dreamtime policy of the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! There is no point of order. 
-I am telling all my constituents that the Labor Party Opposition has no positive policy on energy or the pricing of fuels. 
-The Budget brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 2 1 August is a responsible Budget. The Treasurer has kept careful control of the money supply while, at the same time, allowing sufficient initiatives to get industry moving. The Budget takes note of the needs of pensioners and other disadvantaged people and makes tax evasion harder. 1 generally support the overall thrust of the Budget in which the Government will lower the general rate of taxation on the wage earner. By removal of the tax surcharge on 1 December, the average earner will be $4.45 a week better off than he was on 30 November. Of course he will be approximately $16 a week better off than if the Hayden tax scales of 1 975-76 still prevailed. 
Because the tight fiscal policies and, to some extent, the pricing policies of crude oil have allowed the Government to aim at a Budget deficit of around $2.2 billion, there is still provision for a small increase in expenditure of 9 per cent which will maintain the level of expenditure in real terms. With increases in States and local government funding, a real increase of approximately 2 per cent in expenditure will result. As a result of the policies which the Government has pursued in recent years, we have been able to maintain our inflation rate well below the world average rate. This has increased the competitiveness of Australia on the world market. It means that Australian industry can compete with imports in more areas and is much more competitive on the international scene. As a result employment opportunities will rise. This competitiveness has, in turn, meant a strengthening of our balance of payments and an increase in flow of foreign investment moneys. These have been for a wide range of industries and projects. In short, Australia is on the move again. 
Largely as a result of the previous Labor Government's incompetent economic management between 1972 and 1975, the Australian economy has been affected by fundamental distortions which have severely inhibited its performance. Real labour costs have been out of line with productivity. Gross returns on private investment have been greatly reduced, leaving a question mark over the long term expansion of the private sector. Until recently Australia's international competitiveness has been severely eroded. Expenditure by the public sector had been significantly in excess of receipts and the greatly swollen public sector borrowing requirement has led to severe strains in the financial markets. The inflation problem has heightened uncertainty, inhibited private decision making and depressed the confidence of consumers and investors, both domestic and overseas. These were the results of the actions of the previous Labor Government. 
This Government's economic policy has been consistently directed to correcting these fundamental distortions which have been preventing sustained high employment and economic growth. The Government's economic strategy has achieved a marked improvement resulting in a substantial reduction in inflation, a reduction in the rate of increase of wage rates and earnings, an increase in the profits component of national income and a marked improvement in Australia's international competitiveness arising from both exchange rate adjustments and from the reduction in inflation. The Budget has restored confidence in the minerals and petroleum industries. Investment in mineral projects already announced and those pending is astronomical. We see the huge expansion in the alumina industry with nickel, copper and gold mining re-emerging in a very buoyant atmosphere. This is in direct contrast to the decimation of the mining industry under Labor. At the present time, new mines are opening up and old mines are being rejuvenated. Exploration is booming. There is again an air of optimism in the field. There has even been a quiet re-entry into the Golden Mile in Kalgoorlie. The nickel industry has started the long haul back to prosperity. 
Despite the rumours that went around prior to the Budget being presented, I am pleased to say that the Government will maintain the tax free status of gold in the hands of the producer. This is needed as an incentive for exploration. If we look at the bigger mines of, say, Telfer and Central Norseman, we see that these companies need the profits from gold production to pay off past heavy loan commitments and to generate cash flow for further development. On the question of oil exploration, we have seen a dramatic turnabout in activity in this area. Under the Labor Government policies of disincentive, the number of oil wells drilled fell to an all-time low of nine during 1976 but has risen slowly but steadily under this Government. There were 52 wells drilled in 1978 and indications are that more will be drilled in the current year. We can blame much of the current shortage of oil in this country on those three disastrous years of the Labor Government. The Whitlam and Connor philosophy was to compensate production at the wellheads to keep prices at unrealistically low levels. They forced exploration and development to a halt. In other words, they would nationalise and socialise the industry. 
We only have to look at the policies of the Adelaide Conference of the Australian Labor Party this year to realise that it is still the same socialist Labor Party controlled by the socialist Left with the same old policies and dressed only slightly differently. That conference also confirmed the wish to destroy the Senate. The Labor Party would do this by emasculating the Senate of all its powers, thus trying to ensure that a corrupt Labor government would stay in power forever. The people in Australia will not stand for this. Whitlam tried to knock the Senate off and he was rejected by the people of Australia. They are not fools. They will not be taken in by any camouflage that the lefties want to dress up in. 
In relation to petroleum exploration and development, the Budget provides for extension of the benefits of the shareholder rebate scheme, previously applying only to off-shore petroleum exploration and development, to on-shore activities. In addition, the period within which declared moneys must be spent will be extended from two years to four years following the year of subscription. This extension of the period in which declared moneys must be spent will apply to both on-shore and off-shore exploration and development expenditure. The concession will apply to subscriptions after the day when the announcement was made. For subscriptions already made for off-shore exploration, the two year limitation will continue to apply. 
New taxation concessions introduced in the Budget will encourage and facilitate the conversion and replacement of oil-fired industrial equipment with non-oil fuel equipment mainly coal, electricity, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas and solar equipment. Firms converting, or adapting existing oil fired units to non-oil fired fuels will be eligible, subject to certain conditions, to deduct the full cost of conversion for taxation purposes in the year in which the expenditure is incurred. Where the conversion results in the complete replacement of a unit of oil fired plant, a conversion allowance of 40 per cent of the cost of the replacement unit will be available in addition to normal depreciation. The conversion allowance will be in lieu of the 20 per cent investment allowance that may otherwise have been available, and the full deductibility which I mentioned previously will not apply. The Budget Estimates include the effects of decisions announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 June to encourage the conversion of motor vehicles to LPG. The main items were the removal of the 2.125c per litre tax on LPG for automotive use and the removal of the 1 5 per cent sales tax on kits used in motor vehicles. 
These measures and others which were announced by the Government in the Budget and just prior to its introduction will give an enormous fillip to the exploration and development of oil in this country. 
The Liberal-National Country Party Government, by negotiation and co-operation with the State governments, has established a sensible approach to our off-shore assets. This Government has created the atmosphere in which we will see the development of the huge North West Shelf gas reserves in Western Australia. This will be the biggest single project ever undertaken in Australia. It will be approximately equal in size to all of the iron ore developments in the Pilbara, updated in today's money terms. There is a big job potential in the Shelf development and the associated construction of the liquefied natural gas plant and gas pipeline to the south-west of Western Australia. Of course, that is coupled with planned expansion in the aluminium industry in that area. The development of the North West Shelf will trigger a massive surge of development in service industries and other projects. The careful negotiations by the Western Australian Government in the financial circumstances created by the Federal Government have enabled the development of the Shelf to be undertaken. 
Farmers have not had a great deal of additional assistance from this year's Budget. However, the greatest assistance that this Government has been able to give to farmers is a lower rate of inflation, lower interest rates and a general financial stability. As a result, the rural community is in a much stronger position today than it has been for some years. This Government has a track record of coming to the assistance of the rural community when it is needed most. Incidentally, I am a primary producer. I own a sheep station in the Kalgoorlie area and I know that the rural industries only want a chance to help themselves. We would prefer not to depend on handouts and subsidies, although sometimes when we are in dire need they are necessary. We would rather a fiscal environment which allows us to run our own industries without government assistance or interference. However, if things go dead in the rural industry again, this Government will stand ready to assist. 
In this year's Budget the Government also amended the isolated patients' travel and accommodation assistance scheme. It allocated increased amounts of money within the present Federal Budget and removed the necessity for prior approval to qualify for the benefits under this scheme. The isolated patients' travel and accommodation assistance scheme has been of immense benefit to people living in isolated areas of Australia. It has allowed them to seek and receive specialist medical treatment which would otherwise not have been available to them. It is one of the areas in which government assistance has been of great benefit to the people in the outback. 
Reports reaching me from widespread areas of Australia in regard to the availability of avgas in remote areas have caused me some concern. However, I am convinced that steps already taken by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  and the Government will ensure that supplies of avgas will be made available to all essential services and to other operators in those areas. Because of the nature of avgas and the fact that it must be transported in 44 gallon drums or 200 litre drums additional logistical difficulties are created. Whereas most fuels are delivered to remote areas in bulk, unfortunately avgas has to be rolled around in drums. 
There is some concern that perhaps there will be some difficulty in establishing sufficient supplies in the tropical and remote areas of Australia during the forthcoming wet season. Again I have been assured that, with planned spot shipments of avgas to be landed in Australia over the next weeks and months, sufficient supplies will be available for the operators in those areas. I will certainly be keeping my eye on the availability of aviation fuel. I will be pressing the point with the Minister for National Development and the Government if I, along with other members representing remote parts of Australia, find any problem with supply. I am quite sure that some Opposition members who represent country electorates ought also to have this concern for the distribution of aviation gasolene. 
The Government's present policy of escalating the price of fuel in line with world parity prices has caused some concern not only in the cities of Australia but also and more particularly in country areas. These additional prices have in some cases caused hardship and have greatly escalated the price of production of some rural commodities. However, because of the fact that prices were held at unrealistically low levels in the period from 1972 to about 1976, oil exploration and development in this country almost came to a standstill. Because of that we are now suffering some shortages of fuel oil products in Australia. The present pricing policies have ensured and will ensure that additional supplies will be available from previously uneconomic fields and will continue to give the incentive to oil companies to explore for more oil. This has been reflected in the number of wells in operation and the exploration activity presently under way in Australia. 
There is really no alternative but to search for oil. Unless we find more oil within Australian territory, we will be importing more and more oil. At that stage we will be paying full world parity prices in any case. The position at the moment is that we have the option either of paying more for our oil now and obtaining regular supplies in the future or of paying unrealistically low prices for our oil now and not receiving supplies at all in the future. I believe that even the rural community in Australia, who are fairly heavy per capita users of fuel, will recognise this point. This Government has given a guarantee that the rural producers in Australia will receive sufficient supplies of fuel to enable them to plant and reap their crops and to carry on their businesses. I think that it is very important for rural producers to have that guarantee so that they can plant their wheat, run their stock and keep their businesses going in the knowledge that there will be sufficient supplies of fuel. That guarantee has been given. 
There is probably one item that has not received much attention in this Budget; that is, the hardy old annual of taxation zone allowances. Over many years many of us have put forward submissions to various governments proposing that taxation zone allowances be raised to realistic levels. I was disappointed that there was no movement in this area in the Budget. I am hopeful, and in fact confident, that zone allowances will be looked at in a realistic way in a forthcoming Budget. I accept the fact that 1979 was not an appropriate time to bring zone allowances into line at a realistic level. 
There is one other item in the speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  the other night that I found quite incredible. The Leader of the Opposition said that when he was much younger his mother caught him walloping a donkey. I ask: Would he be a fit man to lead the Opposition into government? Could he not make it unless he got the donkey vote? The Leader of the Opposition said that he would implement a job creating scheme by the expenditure of $ 100m to provide jobs for 50,000 workers. He said that he would increase the deficit to fund Labor's grandiose schemes. He would print money. I submit that the honourable member would not only wallop donkeys but also would wallop the taxpayers of Australia. In that speech he gave scant regard to the unemployed. They rated only a very brief mention; such is the honourable member's lack of concern and the lack of concern of the Opposition. 
This Government has done more for the pensioners than any previous government. Pensioners will now receive a pension which is higher, in percentage terms, than ever before, and fringe benefits for pensioners will be better than ever. The twice-yearly indexation of pensions is to be restored. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that a mysterious disease affecting oysters is threatening the multi-million dollar cultured pearl industry in Western Australia and has, so far, defied all attempts at a cure? Is there any avenue of research in which this Government could assist in seeking a cure for these sick oysters? 
-Can the Minister for National Development tell me whether projects which benefit from the Commonwealth Decentralised Development Program are approved under well defined guidelines as set out within the relevant legislation? Can he point out the employment prospects of the projects? Is it a fact that despite continual probing by the Opposition, the Minister has not yet mentioned the projects in the Kalgoorlie electorate which have received assistance under the Decentralised Development Program? 
I rise tonight to make a personal appeal to Liberal and Country parties in Queensland. I do this as a representative of another State. I appeal to the Liberal Party to reconsider the situation in which it might run separate Senate tickets in that State. I have strong feelings on this matter and I recognise that there are shortcomings in both parties. I recognise that we will not see all matters in the same light all of the time. I am aware of certain frustrations which are felt by the Liberals in Queensland. I recognise the political ambitions of certain people. I am aware that certain decisions were made at the last State conference of the Liberal Party some time ago. But the proposal to run separate tickets in Queensland is political suicide. This question is bigger than the Senate candidates concerned, bigger than the frustrations and ambitions of some people, and bigger than the State of Queensland and the Liberal Party. The action will place at real risk the solidarity of the non-Labor vote in this country. 
Despite the assurances of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  it will place unnatural and unnecesary stresses on the coalition of the great free enterprise forces of this nation. The great free enterprise governments that have been the bulwark of development and progress have set this great country apart in the eyes of the world. Under the coalition Government Australia has emerged a a world leader. It is respected in the Western world. We have proved we can control inflation against world trends and can continue to develop. We have a strong economy and are looked on as a stable and honest government. This has not happened by accident. It has been brought about by careful cooperation between people with a common goal. If the Liberals of Queensland are dissatisfied with the National Party Government there- I make no comment on that- they should turn their attention to winning State seats in Queensland. If they are successful they can look at the coalition Government in Canberra. 
I appeal to the Queensland  President  of the Liberal Party, whom I have known and respected for some years, to reconsider the situation and to move cautiously on the question of Senate tickets. I am sure that, given good faith, a satisfactory compromise can be worked out. If the intention to run separate Senate tickets in Queensland is carried through, the repercussions cannot be quarantined in Queensland. The effects will flow on to all States of this nation and could be felt by the coalition Government here in Canberra. We should not forget the terrible effect that the Whitlam Labor Government had on this country in its three years of dark government. We must not forget that, following the Adelaide Conference of the Labor Party, it is now clear that the Labor Party's policies have not changed. They are more socialist than ever. They may be dressed up differently, but they are just as socialist as ever. 
To keep a strong, honest government in Canberra means maintaining a strong coalition in Canberra, with a strong sense of friendship and co-operation. I ask the Queensland Liberals and the Queensland National Party to lift their sights to national horizons. There are methods of gaining the ideals and goals which they are setting out to achieve. But they will not be achieved by the parties running separate Senate tickets. I again appeal to those people in that State to think again on the course on which they are directed at present; to move with extreme caution; and to keep in mind at all times the great goal of this nation, Australia, and the way in which we will go under an honest coalition government. 
-Can the Minister for Trade and Resources inform the House of progress in the development of the North West Shelf project, which is in the electorate of Kalgoorlie? What percentage of the production of the shelf will be exported? Could the project proceed without this export content? 
-by leave-I, too, was quite surprised at the degree of unanimity that we were able to achieve on this Committee because initially some of the members of the Committee were divided in their views. I think it is a great tribute to the  Chairman  and the staff of the Committee that we were able to sort out the various areas of difficulty and produce a report on which we were reasonably unanimous. In relation to the report, I mention a couple of the points that were touched on by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  Much emphasis was placed by some witnesses on the damage by the mining industry to the environment, particularly the damage in the Darling Ranges of Western Australia by the mining industry and the bauxite industry and the general damage to forest areas surrounding such mining areas. The point I bring forward is that one of the chief spokesmen for the Conservation Council of Western Australia who gave some very strong evidence along this line has since publicly changed his stance on the issue following his recent endorsement by a political party in that area. He has been made to toe the party line. So I just mention that possibly his evidence was somewhat suspect in that area. 
Somewhat less emphasis was placed on the damage to the environment in that area by the effects of farming and urban development. It is demonstrable that many more times the area of the forest in Western Australia is damaged by both clearing for farming and farming activities and by urban development on the Darling scarp. I draw the attention of honourable members to recommendation No. 3 in the report that:  . . Commonwealth involvement in environmental protection be restricted to geographic areas under the direct control of the Commonwealth (e.g., Commonwealth Territories), Commonwealth works and activities, activities which the States have referred to the Commonwealth and matters considered by the Commonwealth Government to be of national significance-, 
I believe that the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act should be implemented with common sense and reason. I believe that there are matters of national importance for which this Act should be implemented. But I also believe that it should be up to the Commonwealth Government to decide what is of national significance. 
In the matter of the effects of the mining industry- and in particular the bauxite industrythroughout Australia and the counter-effects of farming and development, I think a much more specific item for investigation under this Act would be the total use of energy. So whilst I do not believe that we should be singling out any particular mining operation or any particular industry, I think that energy would be of national significance and the bauxite industry, being a big user of energy, would be able to play a part in any possible inquiry in that area. Finally, I believe that local government and the State governments today have a much greater awareness of environmental issues than they had a few years ago. I believe that this has been largely brought about by the sensible use of the Commonwealth Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. 
R;/ BAILLIEU (La Trobe)-by leave-Being a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I appreciate the opportunity of having a couple of minutes in which to make some comments on the Committee's report and its inquiry into the environmental protection legislation of the Commonwealth. At the outset, I would like to quote from the Chairman's report wherein he says: 
The report should be read in the light of the Committee's belief that within a Federal system there are areas that are clearly the national responsibility of the Commonwealth, areas where there are shared responsibilities and areas that are the responsibility of State and local government. 
I think the point which has to be borne in mind and which came through in the course of the hearings and the investigations that the Committee made was that the whole question of environmental protection is not the sole province of any one tier of government in this country. 
I would like to raise a matter tonight that is of grave concern to a lot of people in outback Australia. I refer to delivery charges for telegrams. In this respect I would make a plea to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  that he look seriously at the question of delivery charges of telegrams, particularly in regard to those people who operate the outpost radio network in the outback of Australia. I am referring in particular to the Royal Flying Doctor Service network, which has been established at no cost to Telecom Australia and at no cost to Australia Post, and to the outpost radio, which also has been established at low cost to Telecom or Australia Post. 
It has come to my notice that as from 1 October there will be charges applying to telegrams emanating from outpost radios and delivered to other parts of Telecom's network. 
Where these telegrams are addressed for delivery by the fastest means practicable, including messenger delivery, the charge is $2.20; where addressed to a telegraphic code address, $1.80; where addressed to a telephone number, $1.70; where addressed for delivery by mail, $1.50; where addressed to a telex number, $1.30; and where addressed to another outpost radio, $ 1 . 20. That is an incredible list of charges for people who live in very remote areas, at great risk to themselves and to their families, who have to put up with all sorts of hardships and who bear the loneliness of life in the outback. 
I ask the Minister to give very serious consideration to lifting these charges, or convincing Telecom to lift these charges. There is no charge for a telegram delivered to the outback radio and there is no difference between a telegram delivered to the outback radio and a telegram emanating from the outback radio. The outback network, established and run by the Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia, is a catchment area for telegrams for the Telecom network. That catchment area was established at no cost to Telecom. It was established at great cost to the individual and to public donors to the Royal Flying Doctor Service. I believe that it is an injustice for these delivery charges to be imposed on people using that outback network. 
I would like also to raise another matter on behalf of people living in very remote parts of Australia. Believe me, I know all about this. At the present time there is no plan that I am aware of to make available to those people any part of the Access 80 program that is going to be available to others on the telephone network from May of next year. As honourable members will be aware, as of May next year, all telephone subscribers will be able to make a local call to their local service centre for 10c per three minutes of time used on that network. No such equivalent concession is to be available for people living in very remote areas and who are using the outback radio network. I again voice a very loud plea, on behalf of the people who are living in those areas, who use those networks, who have supplied those radio sets, and who are part of that Royal Flying Doctor Service- a catchment area for an enormous amount of income for Telecom- that they be given some consideration when final plans are made for the Access 80 program next year. 
I ask for a very much reduced rate for telegrams for people who are contacting their local service centre for the essentials of life. They must establish contact with their local service centre. They send their store orders, fuel orders, mail orders and school-of-the-air educational sets through the mail service. These people ought to be given some consideration in the Access 80 type concessions by Telecom next year. Again I would ask the Minister to bring this matter up with Telecom in the hope that some of the enormous charges will be alleviated for people using the outback network and the outpost radio as their only means of communication in this country of ours. This is the only means that they have got of contacting the outside world. It is the only means that they have got of sending a store order to their local service centre so that it may be delivered through the outback mail service. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I briefly support the remarks of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  on this matter. I think that it is a complete disgrace that we are required to remain here late at night- even until 1 a.m. It is more than an even bet that we will be required to meet late again between now and when the House rises. I think it is time that we got our priorities right, got down to governing this country, running this Parliament as it should be run and forgot about blooming horse races. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that the announced Telecom program known as Access 80 for country telephone subscribers has been well received by subscribers in areas distant from service centres? Is the Minister aware that many people living in remote areas must send telegrams over two-way radio provided at their own cost as their only means of communication with the outside world? Will these people receive any relief from charges for telegrams- that is, word charges and delivery charges- sent over the radio networks operated by the Royal Flying Doctor Service, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and Telecom Australia? 
-We have heard a lot of nonsense from members for the Opposition today about the fear of foreign investors in the coal industry. Certainly, there will be a great influx of oil company and other foreign investment capital into the coal and other energy projects in Australia. There is nothing wrong with that. There is nothing new about that idea. Where else in Australia are we to find that type and magnitude of investment capital? It was foreign investment capital that made this country great and developed it to the great country that it is today. It was foreign investment capital that developed America to the great country that it is. So what is so wrong with foreign investment capital? It is certainly not available in Australia. New coal developments totalling approximately $ 1,400m are already on the drawing boards for development over the next few years. The oil companies are getting not only into the steaming coal business but also into the coking coal business. This is another resource commodity. Developing another iron ore mine is just like talking about developing a coking coal mine. Probably the major part of the development will be done with foreign investment capital. In most cases the foreign buyers and foreign investors are, in fact, buying out foreigners. We heard a couple of examples of this a little while ago when we were talking about Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd. What do honourable members think.Consolidated Gold Fields is? It is a foreign company now. For goodness sake, let us get off cloud nine and be a bit realistic about all this. 
It is estimated by the International Energy Agency, for instance, that between now and the year 2,000- this was mentioned by my colleague, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  a little earlier- there will be a need for approximately 120 million tons of new development in the coal industry. This means new coal development at the rate of approximately 10 million tons a year between now and the year 2,000. This will open up enormous development prospects and possibilities in relation to taxation, employment opportunities, and educational opportunities for the people. Would the Australian Labor Party cut off all that? Would it have the employment opportunities cut off and restricted for the people who live in Australia? Would it have more and more Australians out of work? We have seen the result of the ALP employment policies in this area. I believe that its policies on the development of the coal industry are no different at all from the ALP policies on the development of the oil industry when the ALP was in power. The development of its policies in the oil industry drove developers away from this area. Those policies drove the explorers out of this country. What happened? We saw the spectre of oil shortages in this country for the first time. The reason for that was quite clearly a development and extension of ALP development policies in the years between 1973 and 1975. Opposition members certainly do not like this but that is the bare truth of the matter. 
Neither the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  nor the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  put up any tangible alternatives. They did not offer a reasonable, tangible and viable alternative to the foreign investment that we need to get these massive mining developments underway in Australia. It has to be remembered that the developments will, at all times of course, be under the guidance, the direction and the guidelines laid down by the Australian Government. It is important to remember that those mining developments will bring ports, towns, railways and jobs to this country. Nobody can dig up the port, the mine, the railway or the town once it has been constructed and take it away. It will be part of Australia for a long time to come. 
What happened when foreign investment developed the Pilbara? Opposition members are silent when I mention that area. Today 50,000 people would not be living in the Pilbara if it were not for foreign investment in the iron ore industry. There would not be any railway lines, ports or towns in the Pilbara area today. Opposition members are sadly silent in commenting on this area. So we are facing a massive development not just of a coal mine, but of a whole series of infrastructures that will benefit this country for 50 years, 100 years or 200 years. The educational opportunities, the new expertise, the tertiary education and further development into the electronics field which this development will open up are part and parcel of the huge developments of today. If it were not for foreign investment we would not even see the developments in the North West Shelf which are about to occur. We would not see that development in that area and we would starve ourselves of energy. The ALP does not have a viable alternative to these areas at all. 
Let us look at a major foreign investor in our resource developments which was mentioned earlier today, namely the Utah Development Co. So far it has shown a profit of $1 10m. How terrible, how horrible is this foreign investor! This was a profit on its investment of about $ 1,500m. But it has also paid $ 160m in taxes and royalties. It has paid $50m in wages and salaries and it has paid $60m to the Queensland railways. It has been the means of upgrading the Queensland railways. Where were all the Australian funds when Utah was trying to find local investment to do this development? Utah tried to find local investment and found none. 
I turn for a moment to Western Mining Corporation Ltd. It is a major Australian-owned company with Australian developments. From where does it get its money when it wants to develop a project? It has to go overseas and raise the capital- that dirty, horrible, foreign capital that the ALP does not like. It is the foreign capital that has made this country the great country that it is today. It is the country of which the ALP is proud to be a part, but it does not want any part of the foreign capital that flows into Australia or of the immense benefits that come to this country which result from foreign investment. What is so wrong with oil majors being involved in investment developments? What is so wrong with oil majors putting their investment money into energy projects in Australia? They have the expertise and the track record in the energy field. They have the sales contacts and the expertise to put up massive developments. At all times, whether it is an Australian company, a foreign company or a blend of foreign and Australian companies, the Australian Government has the responsibility to ensure that not only foreign-owned oil companies and other foreign companies but also Australian companies develop these projects to the best interests of Australia. Australia will get these benefits from these massive developments for very many years to come. Honourable members should make no mistake about it. 
I come back to what I said a little while ago. The ALP policies on coal as expounded by the honourable members for Blaxland and Cunningham would drive away the foreign investment that this country needs. It would drive away jobs, it would drive away expertise and employment opportunities, it would drive away educational opportunities and it would drive away the investment as it drove it away in the years 1973 to 1975. Opposition members' memories are short but the Australian people 's memories are not so short. They rejected those policies in 1975 and they rejected them in 1977. They will reject them again and again. We heard the honourable member for Blaxland talk about a resource tax, a supertax, which will tax the poor blighters out of existence. To hell with the development that foreign investment would bring to this nation. To hell with the jobs, the ports, the railways and the towns that it would bring. That is what dirty foreign investment brings to this country. It brings development, it brings jobs and it brings the much-needed infrastructure that this country requires to make it a great nation. 
I wish to make one final point. I believe that this country has an obligation to an oil and energy-hungry world to make its resources available to its near neighbours and to its distant neighbours. It has an important part to play in the energy scene in the world. We have a responsibility to develop our energy resources because we must remember that our coal resources are almost unlimited. I think that even the honourable member for Blaxland would have to concede that they are almost unlimited. At the present and proposed rate of development we have some 700 years or 800 years supply of coal available. We have only just scratched the surface in the coal area. If we do not make our resources available and have a responsible policy to offer an energy-hungry world, then woe betide us. I come back to my first point. I believe there is nothing wrong with the foreign investment that has made this country great. There is nothing wrong with the development which will flow out of that investment. But there is a hell of a lot wrong with the ALP policies as expounded by the honourable member for Blaxland. 
-by leave-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Indonesia, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea and Thailand and seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
The delegation consisted of Senators Scott, Bishop and Hamer, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and me. We visited several member countries of the Association of South East Asian nations. 
It was a good delegation. We were principally concerned with looking at the refugee situation in each of these ASEAN countries. We were looking at Australian aid projects and at improving Australian relations with the several countries visited. The delegation was totally concerned at and impressed by the severity of the refugee situation throughout South East Asia. We spoke with many refugees; we spoke with people who had experienced enormous hardship, privation and starvation. We witnessed first-hand several of the terribly compact refugee camps in countries that had received the boat people and in Thailand. These camps had received enormous numbers of refugees who had fled by land across the borders. I will say a little more about the refugee situation later. 
We were impressed with the value that Australia was receiving in regard to aid projects with the various ASEAN countries- the joint Indonesian-Australian, Philippine-Australian and Thai-Australian aid projects. Principally, these are based on agricultural projects aimed at bringing into production waste lands and lands that are presently not in production for food and other purposes. Another major aid project was to establish better quality stock and better facilities for farmers in South Mindinao and in Indonesia. We were impressed by the vast difference in the standard of living between the metropolitan areas of, say, Manila and the rural areas of South Mindinao, particularly at Pagadian. We were aware of the tense military situation in South Korea. I remind honourable members that this was before the recent tragic circumstances that have occurred in South Korea. We were aware very much of the tense military situation which prevailed at the time of our visit. We visited the demilitarised zone and experienced first-hand some of the tenseness that the troops are subjected to in that area. We were impressed in Korea with the higher than average standard of living for countries in the Association of South East Asian Nations. We were impressed by the Australian aid projects in the Philippines aimed at upgrading the quality of the cattle. We were impressed with the relations between the people of the Philippines and Australians. 
In Thailand we visited several areas, particularly the area known as the Golden Triangle. We were made aware of the situation of the drug problem first-hand. We visited the border areas between Thailand and Kampuchea and spoke with people who had recently fled across the border from Kampuchea into Thailand. We were aware at that stage of the immense pressures building up in Kampuchea for the exodus of an enormous number of refugees. We were also aware of the tremendous hardships that those people were experiencing. They were being harassed right to the border by Viet soldiers. We stood and watched the Viet soldiers from a distance of approximately 100 metres. To demonstrate our solidarity we held a Press conference under the very muzzles of their rifles. The thing that impressed the delegation most of all was the privation and the terrible state of the refugees who had fled in enormous numbers across the Kampuchean border into Thailand. We had information and were aware that enormous numbers of refugees would presently be pushed out. Circumstances and events have subsequently overtaken those thoughts. 
We are aware that the problem of people being pushed out of Kampuchea, Laos and Vietnam is absolutely enormous. These people are being subjected to tremendous hardships. They are being starved, beaten and tortured. When they are able to raise substantial sums of money they are being granted free passage from the country. There is no doubt whatsoever that the Vietnamese Government is trading in refugees. It became obvious to the delegation on the whole of the trip that the action taken by the Australian Government in receiving refugees into this country on a permanent basis was enthusiastically received and appreciated. Concern was expressed that not enough refugees were being taken into Australia but we were able to point out that on a per capita basis our track record in this area is the best in the world. 
It became apparent to me- I speak only for myself on this matter- that the real problem of refugees in South East Asia, particularly Kampuchea and Vietnam, cannot be solved alone by taking refugees into Australia or any other country. The sheer weight of numbers precludes this from being the ultimate solution to the problem. I firmly believe that action has to be taken to give sanctuary to these people in their enormous numbers in areas close to or within the borders of Kampuchea, Thailand or Vietnam. They will need to be sustained and supported over a lengthy period until at some time in the future they may be able to return to their homelands. I am not talking about 50,000 or 100,000 refugees. We are looking at a possible total of one million to two million refugees. 
There is no question that the refugee problem is far bigger than the 37,000 refugees we are prepared to take into Australia under our present aid program. There is no question that we could take more but such action would again be only a drop in the bucket. A substantial number of refugees who have come into Australia have made it out of those areas by boat. In being willing to accept these boat people we are conceding that at least 50 per cent of them are dying during the journey. Friendly nations are willing to concede 50 per cent of deaths if they say that they will continue to accept refugees if they can make it by boat. I believe that the problem is so big and important that we must rethink our whole approach to the matter. I am heartened that in latter days we have taken some steps to send directly to Kampuchea, Vietnam and East Timor additional aid and support in the way of food and other support. 
