-Thank you,  Mr President.  Firstly, I offer my congratulations to you, as all previous speakers have done. I came to this chamber not knowing many people, least of all yourself,  Mr President,  and I listened with interest as honourable senators on both sides of the chamber extolled your many virtues. In the short time that I have been here 1 have come to agree with those statements from both sides. The only difference of opinion that I might have is with the expression by Opposition senators about the length of your tenure of office. I also congratulate other honourable senators who have been elected to positions both within this chamber and within their parties, and I congratulate those honourable senators who have made their first speeches in this chamber. I know now what they went through. 

 Mr President, it would be most remiss of me if at this stage I did not pay tribute to my predecessor, former  Senator Ellis  Lawrie. He was a friend of mine, as he was of many honourable senators in this chamber. Former  Senator Lawrie,  in his own quiet way, served well his Party, his State and this chamber. At the many meetings which I attended with former  Senator Lawrie  I grew to appreciate the amount of work that he really did. He was always well versed in the happenings of this chamber, more especially in the field of communications. He expended a large amount of his time and energy trying to improve the lot of those who live in the sparsely settled areas. I and other honourable senators in this chamber who know him would undoubtedly wish, now the pressure is off, that he will have a long, healthy and happy retirement. 
I take my place in this chamber to represent the State of Queensland- a position of which I am very proud and a State of which I am very proud. Queensland provides so much of those things which make for a contented and satisfactory life-style that we would not want to live anywhere else. Need I mention our climate, the friendliness of our people, the lack of the proverbial rat race and the steadier pace at which we live? Those qualities are freely available to all our residents. Without being too parochial 1 can also say that they are freely available to those dissidents from other States who would like to partake of our better way of life. As well as the merits of living in Queensland, my State offers much more than just quality of life. The impact of Queensland on the economic life of our Commonwealth is far beyond what most people would imagine. The figures for the year 1972-73- the latest figures that I was able to obtain- show that total Australian exports were $6,2 14m while total imports were $4,121 m, leaving a surplus of $2,093m. Of that, Queensland's exports were $ 1306m, with imports of $31 lm, leaving a Queensland surplus of $994m, which was 47.5 percent of the national surplus. For the same period Victoria's exports were $l,495m, with imports of $ 1473m, leaving a surplus of $22m or 1.08 per cent of the national surplus. New South Wales exports were $ 1,421m, with imports of $1, 810m, leaving a deficit of $389m, which means that New South Wales provided a debit of 18.59 per cent in Australia's national surplus. 
I should like also to point to another State with a similar set of circumstances to our own- Western Australia- a State which also has vast areas, a small population and high productivity. In the same period its exports were $ 1154m, with imports of $227m, leaving a surplus of $927m or 44.29 per cent of the national surplus. Those figures become even more enlightening when one looks at the export surplus per head of population. The average for Australia was $157.73; the average for Victoria was $6.29; New South Wales, that other populous State, lost $82. 12 per head of population; whereas in Queensland the earnings were $510.71 and in Western Australia they were $854.90. At the risk of boring the Senate with these figures but to prove my point concerning the role which the less populous States play in our earnings per head of population, I point out that the figure for South Australia was $265.65, for Tasmania $435.15, and for the Northern Territory $470.08. Honourable senators should not forget that that compares, as I said previously, with Victoria's very low $6.29 and New South Wales's abysmal deficit of $82.12. 
I am sure that those figures help to prove the case for the existence of this Senate. In the House of Representatives we are completely swamped by representatives from New South Wales and Victoria with their vast population densities in Sydney and Melbourne; yet their contributions to our trade earnings are insignificant when compared with those of the less populous States. So, because of variation in population densities compared with where the wealth is produced, this chamber has a very vital role to play in keeping some balance of representation between the areas of production and the areas of population. The vast metropolises of Sydney and Melbourne might be the centres of commerce, but the business which they transact is really generated in areas far removed from their city and State boundaries- a fact which the Commonwealth would do well to remember when discussing the Federal revenue sharing and tax proposals. So we accept the fact that we have to carry these States. We hope they accept the fact that we are carrying them. 
As my colleague in the other place, the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  said, the major money earning industries in Queensland are all private enterprise. The results of the initiative and enterprise of individuals, partners and companies have provided jobs, facilities, and ancillary services as well as revenue for our Commonwealth. It was pleasing to see the Commonwealth Government introduce the 40 per cent investment allowance to stimulate the private sector. However, I, as did many of my colleagues, considered the $ 1 ,000 cut-off point to be too high. Most small businessmen, farmers and graziers spend this sort of money only when replacing vehicles, tractors, headers, etc. It was pleasing to note today that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  had reduced that cut-off point to $500. However, I still consider that to be too high. The majority of the purchases, such as chain saws, welders, electric motors, drills, pumps, cash registers, slicers, to name but a few, are still below that $500 cut-off point. I think it would be advantageous to both the purchasers and the manufacturers if this cut-off point could be lowered considerably below the $500 presently provided. 
It is quite true that government instrumentalities have greatly assisted private industry. I submit that the Government has a lot more to do yet. When one considers the distances involved between properties, mines, factories and the ports, meatworks, etc. that have to handle the products one cannot help but be conscious of the part that transport and communication have to play. Efficient railways are a necessity. I am convinced that the most important way of handling large bulk cargoes is the use of the minimum friction steel on steel rail method. 
At great expense the Townsville to Mount Isa railroad was rehabilitated from Duchess to Hughenden to handle the increased production resulting from the expansion of the Mount Isa mines. Unfortunately, only minor sections of the track from Duchess to Mount Isa were done at this time. When the track was originally laid the great northern railroad ran from Townsville to a town called Dajarra. The Duchess to Mount Isa line was but a branch line but it was laid with a 62 lb rail, allowing an axle load of 15 tonne. The rest was 42 lb rail. That line was rehabilitated up to a 90 lb rail. The 60 lb rail was left there because it could handle the increased axle load. Unfortunately, the line was laid on sand ballast and with the increased traffic the railways are now having their problems. 
Considerable difficulties are also being experienced on the black soil plains where every wet season the ballast keeps sinking out of sight. Because of the black soil plain the bridges in the area, which are of prestressed concrete, are built on a concrete raft principle. However, the swirling of the flood waters literally sucks out the black soil from underneath these bridges. This has created problems there as bridges have sunk, causing a lot of expense to the Queensland Government. We now find that as well as the two-way traffic on the Mount Isa line, with coal and general products going to the mines and the power stations, and with copper, lead and zinc going back to the port and refinery at Townsville, the phosphates from Duchess will also have to be transported. Therefore, much more money will have to be spent to bring this line up to, and to maintain it at, a suitable standard. 
The ability of the railways to handle large bulk cargoes, such as coal, has now been well proven. The Peak Downs to Saraji and Goonyella to Hay Point railroad is one of the most efficient operations in Australia. Here, the railways, to enable them to carry large tonnages of coal without increasing traffic densities, introduced the remote control locomotives. By using this method 3 large diesels, each of 2000 horsepower, are placed in the lead of the train and 3 more in the middle one kilometre behind the lead. All 6 diesels are controlled by the one driver using a jumper cable between the 3 diesels in tandem and a VHF radio link between the first and the second consist of diesels. This enables a better distribution of power and braking, and quicker recharging of the auxiliary cylinders throughout the train, after braking. This is the only railroad in Australia where this method is in operation. I think that the Railway Department of Queensland deserves credit for its foresight and its initiatives in going into this new venture. The fact that this method has been introduced so quickly and is operating so efficiently is a credit to both the technicians and the trade staff who installed and maintain it and the crews who man the trains. As I have said, it was a completely new venture. There was nobody to teach the drivers how to handle those trains over that grade. The technicians taught them the intricacies of the equipment and how it operated. As a result of the training that the drivers had had up to that time with the triple headers and their own initiative and ability, they have succeeded and the operation is working successfully. 
In the area named, five of these trains, each of which is 2 kilometres long, weighs 1 1 000 tonnes gross and carries 8500 tonnes of coal, are able to supply sufficient coal to what will now become the largest coal exporting port in the world. The railroad has played and will continue to play a tremendous role in the transporting of primary produce to processing facilities and/or ports and markets. More importantly, this railroad is also being used to help reduce the cost of living in country areas. This is done by keeping the freight costs as low as possible and funding the deficit out of Consolidated Revenue. This assists in keeping the price of food, clothing and other material effects lower than would be possible to the people living away from the seaboard. 
The sparsity of population and the distance to be traversed cause 2 other major problems- that of adequate roads, and communication. Firstly, I refer to roads. I recognise that a tremendous investment has already been made to try and bring our country roads system up to a reasonable standard. However, a tremendous amount of work remains to be done. Some of our major highway systems are still little better than dirt tracks. The Townsville- Mount lsa, WintonBoulia, Winton-Cloncurry, GeorgetownNormantonKarumbaBurketown roads and the missing link over the Drummond Range on the Capricorn Highway as well as the Bruce Highway from Sarina to Maryborough via St Lawrence are roads that require completion at the earliest possible date. Just because people are living in isolated areas, it does not mean that they are entitled to fewer facilities than those in the metropolitan areas. 
We must remember that the people in these areas provide a large amount of the bulk of the revenue for our Commonwealth. This Government, as well as looking to the completion of these major road systems, should start planning at the earliest opportunity for the upgrading of some of the alternate routes. I think particularly of the Clermont-Charters Towers and Charters Towers-Mount Garnet roads. It is well nigh impossible to make the Bruce Highway floodproof for 12 months of the year. As soon as the bridges over the Dawson and Comet rivers are completed, this road will provide an alternate route as well as greatly assisting in the transport of stock and grain to railheads and markets. 
Secondly, 1 refer to communications. One of the tragedies of western Queensland has been that because of the serious drought and downturn in wool and beef markets, large numbers of people have left this area to seek employment elsewhere- possibly never to return. This means that without Government help it is no longer viable to provide adequate air, telephone and postal services. I again pose the question: Are not these people just as entitled to these facilities as are their city cousins? The expense of running telephone lines is obviously of enormous proportions, but to supplement this I believe that more experimentation could be done with multifrequency VHF radio telephones and the scattertrophic system so that people can communicate privately and continually with the outside world. I am sure that Telecom Australia has the manpower and the technology to do this. From conversations with officers of Telecom Australia, I am also sure that it has the will to do it. It just needs the resources, and these can be provided only by the Government. Trunk charges in some of these areas should also be reviewed. We know that in a private capacity we have all been hit to leg with them. But in some places in western Queensland the price of ringing up for a loaf of bread is more than the actual cost of the loaf of bread- a ridiculous anomaly that should bc righted as soon as possible. 
My colleagues the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  have worked hard to have television translators placed at strategic intervals throughout their areas, thus providing television services for the people in many western towns. Now that these translators are established I think that the Government in the very near future should look to increasing their power output so that reception can be obtained over a greatly increased area. These translators operate on a line of sight principle. In the western areas no difficulties are experienced with hills or ranges intercepting the signal. The mere fact that the output could be increased would mean that a lot more people would be able to tune in. As well as assisting to ease the isolation experienced by the people in these regions it would be invaluable to enable isolated children to watch the regular school broadcasts and thereby to greatly increase their education. What costs do we take into consideration when looking at the education of our children and our young people? 
With the withdrawal of air subsidies by the previous Government air services decreased dramatically with the resultant loss in postal services. The situation now is that unless one is going to the major centre of Mt Isa air services within western Queensland are few and far between and regular postal services in many cases are well nigh non-existent. If we really want to make people second class citizens we can do no better than to deny them what the majority of the people of Australia not only take for granted but also look on as their natural right. Yet this is precisely what has happened. Ridiculous as the proposition might sound, as the twentieth century and 'technology progress our isolated people are becoming more isolated. 
As I have indicated, the people of Queensland have played far more than their fair share in the development of this Commonwealth of ours and Queensland has reached its present stage of development in considerably less time than the well established States. The people of Queensland are not claiming any preferential treatment because of their contribution. However, they consider that they are entitled to equal treatment- facilities and services commensurate with those of people living in the metropolitan areas. Nevertheless, in spite of the difficulties the story of our development is far from finished. With our almost boundless resources and the ability of the primary producer to produce- it must be recognised that even in the worst times he still produces a large proportion of our export earnings- Queensland still has a great role to play, especially if this Government assists in providing the incentives and the services. 
I was dismayed recently to notice a difference of opinion between my State Government and the Commonwealth over the $6 a tonne coal levy. If there is to be a levy at all it should go towards our State funds. Surely the Commonwealth Government reaps enough benefit from the company tax and the income tax paid by those employed directly and indirectly by the coal industry. However, I would much rather see this levy abolished outright as soon as it is financially and legislatively possible. The levy has all the odours of the philosophy that it is sinful to be successful and that if one is successful one is not entitled to the benefits. With the vastly increased cost now involved in setting up all the infrastructure for a new mine I am quite sure that this iniquitous levy placed upon the mining companies will cause them to look quite critically at the feasibility of new ventures. It is these new ventures and their associated industries that are going to help relieve our chronic unemployment situation and to reduce a massive Budget deficit, which we now find confronting us. 
In conclusion, I would say that Australia must be recognised as one of the nations of 'haves' amongst many of the world's countries of 'have nots'. I hope that we as an Australian people recognise this and accept the responsibility that it places upon us. It will show extreme disregard for the plight of our fellow man if we do not accept our responsibility towards those millions of less fortunate people who live within less than a day's flying time of our shores. We will rightly stand condemned in their eyes if we fail to reach our productive capability and fail to help these people. This responsibility falls on all sectors of our community. I hope that the business and farming communities look to profits as a reward for initiative and enterprise and not as a sop to quench insatiable greed. Conversely, I hope also that the wage and salary earner seeks better wages and conditions as a reward for productivity and not just as a panacea for selfish desires. 
I look to the day when the industrial climate is such that the man on the shop floor readily considers himself an integral part of the firm for which he works and not just a number on the payroll sheet. I hope that this day is not too far distant and that he thus takes his place in the decision making processes of his firm and also derives the just benefits of his labour. I am quite sure that when this situation arises the industrial harmony that so many of us seek will be a lot closer and that our Commonwealth will be able to reach its full potential and to turn its energies towards playing a far greater role in assisting the less developed countries of the world. Thank you,  Mr President,  for the courtesy this chamber has extended to me. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As a preamble I point out that in the Dysart area of central Queensland there are a number of rural telephone subscribers attached by party line to the Clermont exchange and some of these lines run for 60 to 80 miles. When the town of Dysart was established to service the Saraji and, hopefully, Norwich Park coal fields, these lines were rerouted around Dysart. I ask: Why were these lines rerouted around the town and not connected to the Dysart exchange, thus obviating the necessity for subscribers to maintain such a long length of line. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. How much financial support does the Federal Government give to the Australian Opera Company? Does this Company's schedule include visits to all States? If not- I am led to believe it does not- considering that all taxpayers contribute to the Australian Opera Company's upkeep, why not? 

 - Senator Gietzelt, in his remarks in this debate tonight, made a great issue of the contention that the Opposition had been badly treated in the debate on the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill. I point out that the Opposition put up 5 speakers. Those 5 speakers were allowed to speak and indeed the debate took 2 days of the Senate's time. It was only when the Bill reached the machinery stage that numbers were used to hurry the Bill through. 
The idea of any subsidy is mainly to help an industry, not to help an individual. If we are to bring in names of individuals I suppose that we should do the same with people receiving social welfare benefits or any kind of subsidy or tariff assistance. To my way of thinking a subsidy is used to keep down production costs and thus lower the price to the consumer. It stands to reason that if a producer is a big producer he would have a big effect on the ultimate price to the consumer. Therefore any method used to bring down his production costs would be of ultimate benefit to the consumer. I support this Bill. I draw attention to the first paragraph of the Industries Assistance Commission report published on 5 September 1975. The report, which recommended the continuation of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy for 1 976 at the existing rate, said: 
When the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy was introduced in 1966 its stated aims were, in brief, to reduce costs to major user industries, to assist users to compete in export markets, and to encourage use of nitrogenous fertilisers in newer applications where cost considerations might be a deterrent. 
Nitrogenous fertiliser is needed across a wide range of Australian soils. This stems from their geomorphology, the substances from which the soils are made. The soils of Australia are prone to leaching, and nitrogen is one of the most leachable elements in the Australian soil profile. The nitrogenous deficiency in Australian soils has been overcome to a large extent by the pasture revolution of the 1950s in which leguminous crops and pasture species were seen to restore the nitrogen balance of soils following years of cropping and/or grazing. In our more intensive agricultural industries the opportunity to replace nitrogen through the use of legumes and crop rotation is not always commercially feasible. That is why there has been a movement for these industriesnamely, the wheat industry, the sugar industry and the horticultural industry- to add nitrogen through the use of artificial fertilisers. 
This method of soil amelioration is most advantageous with regard to the sugar industry. I believe that the recommendation of the IAC that the present subsidy of $78.74 a tonne of contained nitrogen in fertiliser will encourage wider usage of fertiliser in the sugar industry. The sugar industry, like any other industry, has been subject to increasing production costs but especially in relation to fertiliser prices. For example, let me refer to fertiliser prices ex works Brisbane per tonne in February 1974 compared to February 1976. The rise for superphosphate was 142 per cent, for potassium chloride 77 per cent, for ammonium sulphate 123 per cent, for ammonia 8 1 per cent; and for urea 6 1 per cent. These price increases include payment of the Commonwealth bounty or subsidy where applicable. Thus it can be seen that if the subsidy or bounty had not been paid the fertiliser costs would have been considerably higher. 
Despite the large rise in fertiliser prices, it is interesting to look at other cost inflationary pressures facing the sugar industry. The Bureau of Statistics has estimated that between December 1973 and December 1975, the overall price rise for materials used in buildings, other than houses, was 46 per cent, Also within the sugar industry, again in common with other industries, wage costs have risen substantially. Between 26 May last and 16 February this year, the wage rise for different classifications in the industry has been quite substantial. On a weekly basis the increase for field workers has been $15.77; general mill workers, $16.42; tramline construction and maintenance workers, $16.54; mechanical harvester drivers, $17.36; first-class engine drivers, $19.81; sugar boilers, $19.11; and fitters, $19.89. 
Madam Acting Deputy President, I have no quarrel with these increases as workers in this industry are subject to the same cost pressures as is anybody else in the work force. However, it must be understood that in the sugar industry and indeed in all primary industries the price received for the product does not normally bear any relation to the cost of producing that product. Rises such as those indicated naturally erode the profitability of the sugar industry. It would be pertinent at this time to note that the industry is presently seeking an increase in the domestic wholesale price of sugar. There appears to me to be some validity in seeking that increase. However, it must be borne in mind that an unreasonable increase could erode large scale commercial markets for the industry through the switching to substitutes and synthetic sweeteners. 
I would point out that in a very short time the manufacture of high fructose corn syrups could pose serious problems. The technology now exists for providing a large proportion of our sweetening needs from such crops as sorghum, maize and wheat. I am led to believe that present indications are that, by the end of the decade, one-quarter of the sweetening used in the soft drink industry in the United States of America could be from this source. 
Let us look briefly at some of the finances involved. In 1967, the return to the industry from the home consumption market was a declared price of $140.55 per tonne. In 1975, the return to the industry from the home consumption market was a declared price of $ 129.90 per tonne for the same quality. In February 1976 the average retail price for sugar in Australian capital cities was 25c per kilogram. Overseas prices for sugar per kilogram by comparison are: Britain 39c, Norway 93c, Canada 47c, United States 40c and Japan 68c. As can be seen from these figures, the Australian sugar producer is subsidising the Australian domestic sugar consumer. For 1975, it is estimated that sugar growers will receive $128 per tonne for No. 1 Pool sugar sold for home consumption while No. 2 Pool sugar will yield between $220 and $275 per tonne. 
Recently, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Ian Sinclair)  spoke of the position of the sugar industry and he said that there was a strong argument in favour of not rapidly increasing the price for domestic sugar.  His  arguments are quite valid when one recognises the threat that synthetic sweeteners or substitutes could represent on the domestic market if the wholesale domestic sugar price were raised too much. I believe that the argument that he has put forward is quite legitimate. But I also believe that recognition needs to be given to the fact that the Australian sugar industry or, more importantly, the Australian sugar grower is subsidising the Australian sugar consumer. 
When looking at the question of help for the sugar industry one must consider also its long term future. One of the problems bequeathed to this industry by the previous Administration was that Administration's inability to conclude the International Sugar Agreement. It is only the fact that the Australian Sugar Board was able to secure suitable contracts that has enabled the industry to enjoy a measure of affluence at this time. However, this present affluence must not be allowed to blind us to the reality of the situation. That is because of, among other things, increasing production costs, low domestic price and long term insecurity, the future of the industry is more precarious than would otherwise seem at first sight.  ( Quorum formed) 
The Bill now before the Senate seeks to provide a subsidy for nitrogenous fertilisers. I would point out that the subsidy that the Australian consumer gains as a result of the price differential between domestic and export sugar is greater than the cost of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy in total applying across the whole spectrum of Australian agriculture- the wheat and horticultural industries, to mention two, as well as the sugar industry. I believe that in looking at the legislation we should not consider it solely as a subsidy measure, lt should be looked upon also as a means of protecting our most vital natural resource. That important natural resource is the soil fertility of this nation. 
The subsidy should be viewed among other things as a means of encouraging better farm practice through the encouragement of fertiliser usage. As well, it should be considered as a means of easing cost burdens on an industry which has to depend largely on the international market and where there is no protection from the pressures of domestic inflation caused in large part by the policies of the previous Administration. Madam Acting Deputy President, I take great pleasure in supporting the Bill which is now before the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Those people who use private mail bags and private mail boxes have recently experienced a large increase in the charges for the use of those facilities. Firstly how did the Australian Postal Commission arrive at the decision to increase these charges? And secondly when one considers the criteria of user pays and the fact that in this case the user has to use his own time and energy to obtain the better service and, indeed, to assist the Postal Commission in carrying out its function, would the Commission consider removing all charges from the users of private mail bags and boxes and instead pay such users a slight remuneration? 
I present the following petition from 1352 electors of Queensland: 
To the honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned electors of Queensland respectfully showeth: 
That the three service cadet forces have great value in the development of the youth of Australia. 
That the disbanding of the cadet forces will disperse accumulated expertise and interest of those involved, and in some cases negate the efforts of many people over many years. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will reconsider its decision and that the Government will reinstate the cadet forces. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As a preface I point out that under Australian Design Rule 27A which is to come into effect on 1 July this year, all vehicles manufactured after that date are to have certain emission controls added to their engines. It is generally accepted that these controls will increase the cost of the vehicle. I point out that sales tax will also be increased as it is based on the wholesale price. As well, the controls will adversely affect the smooth running of the engine and, quite conceivably, increase the amount of fuel used. I understand that all motorists in Australia are to have ADR 27A inflicted upon them, with the resultant increase in costs and so on, because of a pollution problem in the inner city areas of one and maybe two of our large metropolises. The rest of Australia generally grudgingly accepts that we are constantly being called upon to make sacrifices to assist these areas of population density. However, can the Minister advise the Senate whether we in States like Queensland who breath a purer air are to be called upon to make any more sacrifices in the future to clean up the dirty way of living of the two major centres of population density? 
I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members of Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland, Maryborough Moonaboola Branch, respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1975/76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) How did the Postal Commission arrive at the decision to increase charges for private mail bags and private boxes. 
Will the Postal Commission consider removing all charges from the users of private bags and boxes and instead pay each user a slight remuneration, in view of the fact that the user of such services has to use his own time and energy to obtain a better service. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the serious cutbacks, and in some cases complete abolition, of mail services in country areas can the Minister ascertain what criteria is used by the Australian Postal Commission to decide on the future of any mail service? Can the Commission advise the Government what would be the extra cost of providing everybody with at least one mail service a week? 
-I note that  Senator Button  said that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. When  Senator Button  began his speech he outlined the various aspects of the measure. I must say that I am very happy with the section of the Bill that relates to translators, but for many of the reasons that  Senator Button  outlined I endorse with a certain amount of reluctance the section relating to the banning of cigarette advertisements. I do not think there is any doubt in the world about the health problems that are associated with cigarette smoking. That is not the question in debate here this afternoon. We have a certain number of statistics that point to smoking being the cause of lung cancer, as well as heart disease, hardening of the arteries and so on. I dare say it is questionable whether it is the role of government to protect people from themselves, but that also is a subject for another debate. 
I should like to deal very briefly with the effect of banning cigarette advertising or, indeed, of not advertising at all. When  Mr David  Jull spoke during the debate on this matter in another place he quoted statistics relating to the United States of America, the United Kingdom and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In the United States of America the per capita consumption of tobacco did go down but at the same time as cigarette advertising was banned they also had a very heavy campaign against smoking. The ban had the opposite effect in the United Kingdom. The consumption of tobacco per head of population actually went up. In the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which is not known as one of the bastions of a free enterprise society and, indeed, where they have no advertising at all, consumption has gone up quite substantially. This means that in our society today we have a problem that is quite a bit bigger than the subtlety or seductiveness of modern advertising. I just place those few observations before the chamber. I think it should be noted that when the ban comes in- I believe it will be on 1 Septemberthe broadcasting industry will already have some self-imposed controls. I believe that now such advertisements are not broadcast between certain times. The industry has tried to tidy up advertising. 
As  Senator Button  has said, we have also the problem of the advertising of analgesics and alcohol. The type of advertisements employed in this area are cause for concern to those who are worried about the future of our younger generation and about their use of these things. As  Senator Jessop  has said, the fact that motor cars are one of the major killers in our society does not necessarily mean that we are going to go out madly and start banning the advertising of those vehicles. 
-they might not, but they can kill a person a darned sight quicker. One thing I do question is the advisability of using the regulatory powers of the Broadcasting Control Board in this way. The problem is that it is discriminatory censorship of almost the worst form. We realise that we have to have these powers to regulate the broadcasting industry, because of the different frequencies and the different outputs of the various transmitters. There has to be an overriding body which allocates these frequencies and stipulates the output under which each station should operate. I do not think it was ever envisaged when this regulatory body was set up that it would act as a means of censorship of the electronic media. We have here a means of discrimination against the electronic media alone. 
One of the paradoxes of the whole situation is that we are going to find that the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be one of the major advertisers of cigarettes. I do not have to go into what happens at a football match or a cricket match, when the ABC cameras pan the ground and all the advertisements in the world appear right round the grounds. I understand a higher fee has to be paid to advertise if a particular advertisement is within the range of the television cameras. So we have this irony that the ABC will become one of the major broadcasters of cigarette advertisements. As well as that we have the tobacco companies promoting the various sporting competitions. Also, we have no restrictions whatsoever on advertising in the newspapers. I submit that this legislation probably would have been better if it had been prepared in consultation with the States and more on a health basis than within the portfolio of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
One of the ironies of the whole situation is that because of this banning of cigarette advertising the other part of this Bill becomes all the more important, that is, the part relating to providing licences for translators, especially in country areas. To my knowledge there are at least 30 country radio stations in Australia that are losing money; I think the number is about 34. The denial of this cigarette advertising revenue will not help this situation. I support quite gladly the part of the Bill that relates to licences for translators. The stations are going to be allowed to put in translators and so cut down on some of their operating expenses but at the same time provide a service to the people in the country areas. One of the problems of the outback areas of our country, in all States, is that of isolation. Indeed, when people on properties are looking for labour now one of the questions a prospective employee asks is: 'Have you got television?' If the answer is no, he is likely to go somewhere else looking for employment. If there is any chance of providing an alternative network or increased media outlets in the more sparsely populated areas of our country, they should be welcomed. I hope that the ABC will put more translators through the western part of the country. When translators were first introduced they were a great boon to people in the country towns, and the situation now is that people on the fringes, although they get very bad reception, do get some and it is whetting their appetites. Obviously they would like better reception, which would help to meet the isolation problem in the west. I support this part of the Bill and I hope that the commercial stations as well as the ABC can increase their output of translators for both radio broadcasting and television, in order to give these people an alternative network, or indeed any sort of network. I support the Bill. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Recognising the large increases in the cost of telegrams lately and the efforts of Telecom Australia to get users to use the telephone for all telegram traffic, can the Minister advise whether any special cheap rate is envisaged for those people who do not have a telephone and whose only method of communication is by telegram through outpost radio or through the Royal Flying Doctor Service? 
-As the debate in the chamber tonight seems to have been used as a target against one man I remind the chamber that the urgency motion we are discussing is: 
The failure of the Government to ensure the independence, integrity and high repute of Australia's national broadcasting service. 
Dear old Auntie, as she is affectionately known right around Australia, cops it from the Right, gets blasted from the Left, gets castigated by the radicals and gets maligned by the conservatives. She suffers general condemnation right through the parliamentary year, depending on whatever Party is in power. One might say that she comes in for a fair share of abuse all around. If she will pardon me the irreverence, I say that Auntie is a pretty independent old girl. That negates the first part of the argument contained in the urgency motion. This is the second time this year that we have seen a motion such as this put forward from Opposition benches condemning the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  on 23 March put forward a similar proposition and in his speech he stated: 
A new chairman, acceptable to all sides in the present dispute, but above all, committed to the ideals and traditions of the ABC, must be appointed without delay. 
I submit to the chamber that we have such a person appointed at this stage. He has proved that he is independent. He has proved that he has a mind of his own. He has proved that he wants the ABC to maintain the high standard which it has achieved over the years. Under the Broadcasting and Television Act the powers and functions of the Commission are laid down. Section 59 states:  (I.) Subject to this Act, the Commission shall provide, and shall broadcast or televise from transmitting stations made available by the Postmaster-General, adequate and comprehensive programs and shall take in the interests of the community all such measures as, in the opinion of the Commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable broadcasting and television programs. 
I suggest that the operative words in that section are:' . . shall provide  . . adequate and comprehensive programs . . . '. Unlike the commercial media in this country the Australian Broadcasting Commission does not come under the direct control or indeed any control of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. A commercial operator knows full well what he can do and what he cannot do. He can have his licence called up or he can be asked to show cause or explain why certain action should not be taken, and so forth. This means that there is far more responsibility on the Commissioners of the ABC, as they are appointed, to see that the Commission plays the part that it was set up to do for society. I reject the idea that the Commissioners should act as censors. They should be in charge of quality control. I think that that would be more aptly the operative phrase at this time. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in the debate which was instituted by the Leader of Opposition laid down quite firmly what he thought was the role of the ABC in our society. On 23 March he stated: 
I say in clear terms that the Government's attitude on the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is quite clear. The ABC must be independent of political control or interference. We believe it is essential that the Commission maintain high technical standards, objectivity and integrity in the presentation of its services. We recognise the valuable work performed by the Commission, particularly in providing services to remote areas and to minority groups. In government we will continue to ensure that the ABC is equipped to service these needs. We will complement those needs with other essential local services such as public broadcasting, so that the ABC can continue as an independent authority serving the Australian nation. 
I think it must be recognised that the ABC has a monopoly. As a result of this monopoly the Commissioners have a lot of responsibility. It has been said on both sides of the chamber tonight, and I have no quarrel with the proposition, that the ABC should be criticised by the Parliamentnot by the government of the day but by the Parliament- for the very reason that it has this monopoly and that it is using taxpayers' money for its operations. So I have no quarrel with any criticism which might come providing it is constructive and that the government of the day does not try to interfere in the internal functioning of the commission. The ABC operates in many fields not covered by any other representative of the electronic media. As a matter of fact,  Sir Henry  Bland was conscious of this fact and he sent a memo around to the staff which stated: 
I have never believed that the ABC's independence of government in the conduct of its services has been in real doubt. And to me the charter the ABC has is amply dynamic. Its ambit enables us to seize imaginatively technology's unfolding opportunities and meantime to innovate and experiment. . . . But none of this means that the ABC may conduct itself regardless of community response and therefore in a fashion that may excite the few, but offend the many. 
The ABC has played a great part in the cultural life of our community. It fosters programs which possibly would not be viable for any commercial station to even contemplate. We pay a tribute to the work which is done in drama, in concerts, with dance and jazz bands and in public interest debates. It provides such programs as the  Country Hour  and educational programs. It has broadcast programs of very high quality of which it should be proud. It has produced programs which have been exported. I refer to such programs as  Rush  and  Ben Hall  and other programs such as  Gala Performance.  The ABC has regional services which play a vital part in disseminating news to the community. The staff living in a community have identified with the people and with the various activities which go on in the community. Such staff members have a great responsibility in disseminating knowledge through that community but, more so, in disseminating knowledge about that community to the rest of Australia. Because the ABC has a monopoly on all these facets of broadcasting I believe it is right that the Commissioners should keep a pretty tight rein on the quality of its programs. 
The Opposition tonight has put forward no convincing case that the Government interferes in any of the discussions or decisions or programming of the ABC. We maintain that the independence and integrity of the ABC is sound. Mention has been made of the cuts in financing. The ABC is no sacred cow. We make no bones about the fact that the previous Government had overspent and that the belt had to be tightened. We allowed a little bit of leeway as far as education and social welfare were concerned but the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as with most other departments, was told that it had to pull its horns in. For the Government that was as far as it went. Any cuts that were made internally were made by the members of the Commission and not by the Government, and they were made without Government interference. As a matter of fact, I did not agree with some of the cuts that were made. I thought that they could have been made in other places and I dare say that a lot of honourable senators on both sides of the chamber expressed the same sentiments when they found out what programs or sections of programs had been cut out completely. 
The Opposition has got away from the original motion and has degenerated the debate into a character attack on  Sir Henry.  However,  Sir Henry  has done something on his own initiative while keeping to the criteria laid down, and I refer once again to his memo in which he said: 
In the case of the ABC, the goal of 100c worth for every $ 1 spent is not at odds with its excelling in the quality of its presentations and being renowned for creativity, innovation and experimentation. The better and more effectively we do things, the more scope there will be to display these qualities and to lessen the impact on our activities of current financial constraints. 
So  Sir Henry  Bland seeks to encourage creativity and high quality and to make the ABC an innovative force in the community setting a high standard for the electronic media in Australia. If he can achieve that and at the same time set a high standard for Australian talent to attain, be proud of and be part of, then all power and no government interference to him. I reject the urgency motion. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. With the likely reintroduction in the lesser States of eastern silly time under the guise of eastern summer time instead of eastern standard time, supposedly to save daylight- I am at a loss to know how or where daylight is stored while it is being savedcan the Minister advise on what time scale the people on eastern standard time will receive Australian Broadcasting Commission programs such as the news that are initiated in other States operating under the temporarily different time scale? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I notice news references concerning the recent attempt by 3 Aborigines to annex England. I also notice that the attempt became somewhat submerged as England's age old built-in defence mechanism rather engulfed them. Can the Minister advise whether such an attempt had Australian Government backing, whether the Australian Navy lost any stores or supplies or whether the attempt or the trip that culminated in the attempt was financed by any government department or by any organisation that is a recipient of government funds? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. During the stoppage yesterday by members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission staff in southern States, messages were delivered over the ABC stations in Queensland, which were still operating, by members of the ABC Staff Association. These were not news items but rather commercials putting the particular point of view of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association of proposed Government legislation. I ask the Minister the following questions: Was the Staff Association given permission to do this by the Commission? Recognising that when any union or employer group wants to get a particular point across to the public, other than by way of using news releases, it has to pay either for time on the electronic media or space in the Press, did the ABC Staff Association pay for the time used in these advertisements and, if not, why not? Recognising that the ABC is a public body funded by the taxpayer, does the Minister consider that this action by the Staff Association as compromising the independence and integrity of the ABC? 
I support the Bills. I shall dwell mainly on the Bill which deals with the authorisation of financial assistance to the Queensland Government for flood mitigation along the Proserpine River.  Senator Mulvihill  has adequately dealt with the Bill concerning the Namoi River. Proserpine is a town in north Queensland with a population of about 3600 people. It is situated on rich alluvial plains along the side of the Proserpine River. It is in a high rainfall area and is a very rich sugar growing area. Indeed it plays a very major part in that industry and in Queensland 's economy. The first sugar mill was established in 1885 but it did not last long. A second mill was established in 1887. The industry has been going quite successfully ever since. The present company- the Proserpine Co-operative Sugar Milling Association Ltd- took over in 1931. The Proserpine Mill has the highest mill peak of all the mills in the Mackay nulling area. In the year ended 30 June 1975 sugar in the Proserpine area was worth $35m. In the year ended 30 June 1976 it was worth $30m and, as  Senator Keeffe  mentioned, that was leaving approximately 80 000 tonnes of cane still standing significantly because the fields were too wet to be worked. 
Another great feature of the Proserpine area is the tourism industry. Proserpine and the beach resorts adjacent to it are the jumping off places for the Whitsunday Islands and the Whitsunday Passage. This is indeed a great place in which to live and a great place in which to holiday. I think those factors should be borne in mind when we are thinking of any advantages that accrue not only to the Proserpine area but also to Australia as a whole and as we seek to attract people to come and look at what is one of the better parts of this country. 
As I said previously, Proserpine is in a high rainfall area. It is also subject to cyclonic storms. It has a rather unique problem in that research has shown that the upper reaches of the river can carry a flow of 60 000 cubic feet of water a second while the reaches below the town can carry only 5000 cubic feet of water a second. One does not have to be a great mathematician to work out the result. There is a lot of flat country around Proserpine. The Gogango Plains are quite notorious for going under water to considerable depths for a considerable period of time. When you go through the town after a flood you can still see the sandbags which were put around motels in an attempt to keep the water out. To give honourable senators an illustration of this problem I remind them that in 1970 Cyclone Ada dumped 32 inches of rain in 8 hours on this coastal area of Queensland. The estimated cost of damage at that time was $198,866 in rural areas and $279,325 in residential, commercial and railways areas. This gave a total estimated damage in terms of prices at that time of $478,191. In 1973-74 the estimated cost of damage to rural areas was $241,860 and the estimated cost to residential, commercial and railway areas was $101,900. The total estimated damage was $343,760. So if we could overcome those problems, the money we are investing by means of this Bill would be returned quite handsomely. It is considered that the average annual damage without flood mitigation would be $ 1 39,000, not allowing for inflation. 
Proserpine sits astride highway one. Highway one crosses the Proserpine River. Usually the major problems arise in the wet season when most people are on the move, that is. the Christmas vacation period. A lot of people are travelling by car with caravans at that time. These floods can have rather disastrous results. They upset people's timetables in which to get to accommodation and run them into large amounts of money that they did not bargain for, especially when travelling with their families. They have to find accommodation in caravan parks, motels and so forth. 
One of the problems has been that farmers, in order to help guard their own properties against the ravages of floods, have put up their own levy banks. Of course this has been done in a quite independent and indeed haphazard manner. The result has been that whilst some farms might be protected other farms get a lot more flood run-off than they would normally bargain for. The new deal will put in new levies and control overflows, lt will protect the banks in an effort to guard against erosion and will provide proper breakways to divert flood water away from certain areas and into other creeks that can take the overflow. It has actually been designed to cope with a flood of 40 000 cubic feet a second, which is a flood of a frequency of about once in every 10 years. That has been exceeded only by cyclone Ada since records were commenced in 1 958. The sugar industry has played a great part in the decentralisation of Queensland. It is a very stable part of our economy. Tourism adds to our economy and needs to be protected. With all these things in mind, I commend this Bill to this chamber. 
It has been said that a socialist is an unsuccessful person whose last chance to get something is a chance to get a bit of yours. I think this must have been running through the mind of a lot of the mining companies when legislation to introduce a coal export levy was first brought down in August 1975. The mining companies had invested a considerable amount of risk capital. It was capital that was not otherwise available in Australia then and which is not available now. The companies used this capital to open up what was literally virgin scrub country, to build towns, railways, ports, dams and so forth. As soon as they started to get on their feet and make a profit the previous Government decided to take it off them by an added tax measure. The Utah Development Co., which seems to have borne the brunt of the levy, was successful with mining leases on which other companies had drilled. It took up the leases on an entirely risk basis, and as we know it was successful. 

 Senator Walsh mentioned the windfall that this has proved to Utah. Nobody is doubting that. He did not tell the whole story and mention the windfall that there has been to the Australian nation as a whole. He did not mention the tax that Utah has paid, the jobs it has provided, the jobs in ancillary industries and the income tax paid by employees of Utah and employees in ancillary industries. The story is endless. The coal mining industry came to the aid of Queensland at a time when it was suffering from the ravages of drought and depressed wool prices. Of course we are now suffering from a depressed beef market. The economy of Queensland, and the economy of this country, would have been in a far worse situation if the mining companies had not been able to get off the ground. 
The coal export levy was introduced on 19 August 1975. The duty was $6 and $2 per tonne based on an analysis of carbon on a dry ash-free basis. It was payable on the first tonne shipped, irrespective of whether or not the mine was profitable. The production problems of individual producers were ignored, and it added 2 1 per cent to the total costs of the coal industry. 
It also inhibited expansion and new developments. The Australian coal industry directly employs more than 2 1 000 men. It produces 70 million tonnes of black coal per annum. It exports approximately 32 million tonnes or 45 per cent of its total production. Export earnings, which are in the vicinity of $ 1,000m per annum, are now 10 per cent of visible export earnings for the Australian economy. The export duty imposed an immediate loss of cash. Many producers had to reduce their capital replacement expenditure to a level much lower than they otherwise would have. 
The export duty was levied shortly after a world boom in the steel industry and a consequent world wide shortage of coking coal. Nobody denies that. But when it was introduced a reduction in world steel demand was already under way. The downturn in steel demand led to an over-supply of coking coal. That has already been alluded to in this debate. This resulted in a fall of about $ 1 per tonne in the base price for deliveries during 1 976-77. A further consequence is a decrease in deliveries of about 20 per cent. Japan currently takes about 85 per cent of all our coal exports and 38 per cent of our entire coal production. Because of this levy, Australia lost its competitive edge and important opportunities to diversify its markets were not there any longer. This meant that we were not able to compete so successfully on overseas markets. The first shipment of coal that went through Hay Point, the big Utah port in my area, did not go to Japan. It went to another overseas market on a spot sale basis. Of course the recession in the steel industry in Japan meant a slowing down of deliveries and demand for Australian coal. But because of the added cost to the industry in Australia we were not able to compete on the world market for spot sales. The result was a decline in the coal industry in Australia. 
The export levy cannot be passed on to the buyer. It must be absorbed by the producer. At Collinsville at the northern end of the Bowen basin in Queensland there is a type of coal that is not saleable in Australia. The company operating there made overtures to Taiwan and a 30 000 tonne sample shipment was sent to Taiwan. The seam of coal in question is estimated at about 60 million tonnes. The company was not able to sell that coal because of a difference in the price that equalled the amount of the levy. So a potential sale of 60 million tonnes was lost. That coal has now been thrown out as rubbish. It could have been quite a viable export to the Queensland and Australian coal industry. 
Australia is the third largest black coal supplier after the United States of America and Poland. Some sections of the industry are unable to compete favourably with other suppliers such as the United States of America, Poland, Canada, South Africa and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics because of the duty. Japan has expressed concern at the cost of new developments and the reliability of supply. Investment funds have not been readily forthcoming because investors have been too afraid to invest their capital when this levy was likely to go on and on. It has been scaring people away from other investments. If one subscribes to the priniciple that to be successful is sinful, we can put a levy on almost anything we export. This is a principle to which I do not subscribe. 
The removal of the duty would naturally increase the possibility of new projects and help them get off the ground. Areas that have already been mentioned in my State are Norwich Park, Hail Creek, Nebo and Gregory. New projects could lead directly to about 10 000 construction jobs and eventually directly to the employment of 4500 in the coal mining industry itself. In addition people would be employed in ancillary jobs. As a yardstick, it is estimated that for every one person employed directly in the mining industry 5 people are employed indirectly. Of course the State governments would also benefit in increased royalties. I have no quarrel with the proposition put by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  Coal is a natural resource and something should come back to the people of Australia. I have no quarrel with royalties. There would be profits in rail freight. In Queensland there was a unique situation. In hindsight it is probably easy to say that it was bad public relations to have such a low royalty at the start. But the whole system was worked on de-escalating freight rates. We have a magnificent rail system to the Utah coal fields. It did not cost the taxpayers one cent- not one cent. The whole idea was that the cost would be paid back on the basis of freight rates. 
Debate interrupted. 
When the debate was interrupted last night I was discussing briefly what would flow and what has flowed on to the States from the coal industry, especially in my State of Queensland. I mentioned that royalties were playing a major part and that when new production was commenced increased royalties would assist our economy. I say here and now that I believe that royalties are a natural thing which should flow to the people of Australia; but when governments impose royalties they should take into consideration the profitability or otherwise of the mines concerned so that royalties do not have a detrimental effect, as this coal export levy did. 
I mentioned also the profits from the rail freight. I touched briefly on the fact that the railway built in Queensland to carry the coal from the Utah Development Co. mines of Peak Downs, Saraji and Goonyella to Hay Point was unique in that the mining company paid for the railway line and the rolling stock. We have a magnificent railway which was built at a cost of not one cent to the taxpayer and which eventually will revert to the Government and people of Queensland and will be a common earner. It will not belong to the mines; it will belong to the people of Queensland. Already cattle yards have been built along that line to tap the fattening areas in the Nebo district. So these benefits have flowed to the State. Another benefit, of course, is the increased payroll tax revenue. The coal exporting companies are paying 70 per cent or more of their gross profits to the State and Federal governments. These imposts currently include income tax, coal export duty, royalties, coal freights, payroll tax and sales tax. So they are playing a vital part in the economy of our country at a time when we need all that we can get. 
The abolition of the coal export duty will remove that discriminatory barrier to the flow of funds into the coal mining industry. As I mentioned or alluded to previously, it also will give confidence to other people who want to set up what could become quite feasible and profitable industries. Undoubtedly there is a question in people's minds in that where a government would impose a levy on something that is seen to be profitable they will be loth to invest risk capital. So the abolition of this levy undoubtedly will help to build up confidence in this sector once again. The Industries Assistance Commission, in its draft report on the petroleum and mining inquiry, stated that it 'accepts the proposition that the mining sector in Australia is efficient and low cost in comparison with other sectors'. I think this has been borne out. The rnining companies employ a large number of people and make an important contribution to Australian export income. That is proved by the figures I quoted. The industry has proved its ability to open new mines in order to meet growth in world markets. The industry sees a potential for further export, building up to an extra 22 million tonnes with an ultimate increase in sales earnings of $ 1, 000m as a contribution to the Australian economy. 
The removal of the duty will result in the development of new mines in Australia.  Major positive  results will accrue to the national economy, as desired by the Australian Government. Therefore I have no apprehension at all in supporting this measure which is designed eventually to abolish this iniquitous levy. 
It has had a very detrimental effect. There are mines which were not profitable because of this levy. The mining industry has brought into Australia expertise and technology and nsk capital which we just did not have in Australia. The point must be made that Australian workmen are now operating all those mines and ancillary industries. They helped to construct the massive drag lines and the unique unloading operation at Hay Point. We could probably count on the fingers of one hand the number of people outside Australia at present who have anything to do with the operation and management of these coal mines. The industry has been of tremendous benefit and it should not be hit hard because it has been so successful. That success has flowed through all sections of the Australian community by way of jobs and taxes and other things which have been mentioned in the debate. 
When  Senator Keeffe  commenced his remarks he referred to the 'lightweights'- I think that was the term that he used- on the Government side of the chamber in this debate. He even paralleled the length of time in this chamber of some of the members of this chamber with their being lightweights. I must say that from the contributions that I have heard from honourable senators opposite and the length of time in this chamber of some of those honourable senators, they do not altogether weigh in too heavily. My interest in uranium mining began when I lived adjacent to Mary Kathleen for many years. Indeed, I worked trains that carried yellow cake to the port. That has not made me the fount of all knowledge; I suppose it is to the contrary. But it has given me an interest in the subject and it has given me an interest in the men who are mining uranium there. They are quite happy and contented with their conditions and they want to live their lives there. 
Ever since man first emerged from the cave he has required some form of energy. We saw it first in the use of firewood. As civilisation progressed through the ages man used animal fats, paraffin and so forth for lighting and heating. We have reached the stage in civilisation today where we have a very great need for vast energy resources so that we can turn a switch and have lighting, power, heating, cooling, communications and whatever else we want. Of course the more civilised we get the more energy we require and the faster we use up our natural resources. We have reached the stage where we are starting to look further afield and are trying to conserve the fossil fuels that we have. Of course, we are looking at solar power, wind power, tidal power and hydroelectric power, but at this stage, despite the vast amounts of money that have been spent on those subjects, there is not enough of those sources of power available or enough technology to prove them feasible. I admit that we can power some things with solar panels, but not enough to run a steel works. I admit that we can run a station property with a wind generator, but it does not provide enough power to power a city. 
So we have found that we have had to look for some sort of interim power. The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry- the Fox Inquiry- look at the fossil fuel problem. It stated that if coal, oil and gas continue to be used at the same rates as during 1975 the present known reserves will be exhausted in 206, 39 and 55 years respectively, and that is not taking into consideration the increased usage which undoubtedly will flow in the years ahead. This leaves us with only one alternative at present- albeit an interim one- and that is nuclear power. Nuclear energy is just another source of power; it is as simple as that. It is a viable alternative. It can be used with a nuclear reactor to generate electricity and it will help to keep our fossil fuels just that little bit longer. Honourable senators will note that I said that our coal reserves could last for 206 years but that our petroleum reserves could last for only 39 years. So I think it would be conceivable to start to try to generate more power by electricity and look towards coal liquefication to run motor vehicles in the future. The life of the present known reserves of uranium is limited if the present type of reactor is used. But if we look further ahead in the future, with the possibility of fast breeder reactors just around the corner, instead of looking at decades of known energy reserves we will be looking literally at millions of years. That is what is facing us. It is not a simple proposition. Fast breeders are complicated and have some inherent dangers. But I am sure that man, in his quest for energy, will not find those dangers insurmountable. 
Looking at the economics of the matter, a feasibility study in 1974 of the Loy Yang power station in the Latrobe Valley showed a cost of 0.61c per kilowatt hour for a brown coal fossil fuel power station and 0.63c per killowatt hour for a nuclear power station- that is, a station with a potential output of 4000 megawatts. This is working on a price of approximately $2 per tonne for coal. It must be said that the power authority does own the coalfield and that the power station will be sited right on that coalfield. Of course, this does not take into consideration the necessary pollution reducing requirements that would have to be met if towns moved further out towards that station. So it can be seen that it is marginally cheaper to use a fossil fuel power station right on a coalfield in Victoria. 
In New South Wales black steaming coal is about $6 to $7 per tonne.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned the availability of coal in Queensland. I must say that it is to the Queensland Government's credit that arrangements were entered into with the Utah organisation when it was mining coking coal and there was a seam of steaming coal on top of the coking coal. Part of the provision in the licence was that the steaming coal had to be stockpiled. The Gladstone power station is now being run on steaming coal which has been bought literally at over-burden rates. It is as simple as that. So, under these circumstances, why not use coal fired power stations? 
The figures in the United States of America for 1975 are very interesting. The United States nuclear power plants saved utilities over $2 billion in generating costs in 1975, compared with burning fossil fuels. In 1975 United States nuclear power plants saved the equivalent of the burning of more than 238 million barrels of oil or more than 50 million tonnes of coal. The average nuclear generating cost in the United States in 1975 was 1.227c per kilowatt hour which was 63 per cent less than oil and 30 per cent less than coal. So in this day and age we find that the nuclear power plant is indeed an economic proposition. Let us look at the position of developing countries which do not have their own fossil fuel reserves. If they have growing cities and no source of power, the obvious thing for them to do is to look towards nuclear power generation. They have to import steaming coal for possibly $26 a ton. So I question the morality of a nation of 'haves', such as Australia, withholding a possible source of power from the nations of 'have nots ' around the world. 
When one looks at it, one sees that a nuclear reactor is nothing more than a source of heat. Water or gas is circulated through that reactor and goes through a heat exchanger. It then generates steam, which turns a turbine. It is as simple as that. The fission procession inside is controlled. Safety systems are built into the process. It is a physical impossibility for a reactor to turn into a bomb. The worst that could possibly happen would be a melt down if all the systems went wrong. That has not yet happened with all the accidents that there have been. It is quite significant that not one life has been lost to this time at any nuclear reactor power generation plant in the world. 
One pound of yellow cake or U308 has the equivalent energy of 1350 gallons of oil or 7 tonnes of coal. A 1000 megawatt power station would use 140 tonnes of yellow cake a year if it was a nuclear power station. If it was a fossil fuel power station it would use 2 million tonnes of coal. So here we see the significance of developing countries being able to use nuclear power as compared with all the ancillary industries needed to export steaming coal. They would have to put in large stockpiles, provide handling facilities, pay for all the freight and so on. The list is endless. As well as that, from the fossil fuel power stations one has the sulphur dioxide, the nitrous dioxide and the fly ash. I admit that they can be removed, but at what expense. I believe that they have to be shut down quite often to enable the screens to be cleaned. It must be said that radioactive waste going up the funnels of every fossil fired power station in the world. Uranium is a natural element that is found in many coal mines and there is nothing we can do about it. 
There is a certain amount of background radiation in the world today. This has been touched on by the previous speaker. We get it from our luminous wrist watches; we get it from our television sets; we get it from air travel. Everyone is exposed to certain background radiation. Most of it is natural. The amount that comes from the earth, the sun and outer space is 83.7 per cent, while 13.5 per cent comes from medical use- X- rays, etc.- 2.1 per cent from fallout from nuclear tests, 0.7 per cent from industrial and miscellaneous use and 0.01 per cent from the uraniumnuclear fuel cycle. 
As has been mentioned, some places have a higher radiation than others. Yet, experts go to the highest radiation places on earth and cannot find any difference in the likelihood or incidence of leukaemia, cancer and other such things. We do not see any mass exodus of people from the high natural radiation areas to the low natural radiation areas. This is not to say that there is not a hazard with radiation. Of course there is, but there is a certain amount of background radiation and obviously the human body can take a certain amount without ill effects. It has been mentioned that it is more dangerous to fly in an aircraft from Sydney to Perth than it is to live beside a nuclear power station for 25 years. For those who are betting men and like the odds, let me say that there is one chance in 5000 million of being killed from a nuclear power station. There is one chance in 4000 of being killed in a car accident. There is one chance in 25 000 of being killed from a fall. There is one chance in 30 000 of being killed from fire or scalding. There is one chance in 100 000 of being killed as a result of a firearm accident. There is one chance in 100 000 of being killed from air travel. There is one chance in 160 000 of being killed by electrocution. As I said previously, there is one chance in 5000 million of being killed by a nuclear power accident. 
Mention has been made of the disposal of waste products. It is common knowledge that one-third of the fuel rods are taken out of a nuclear reactor every year and replaced. They are placed in water tanks. The water in the tanks is pure demineralised water. The rods are left there literally to cool down. The heat is taken out of them and the water, without being affected, absorbs the gamma radiation. Then these fuel rods can be reprocessed. The usable uranium can be taken out of them and 99.5 per cent of the plutonium recovered for re-use. The rest- some strontium 90 and caesium- is part of the high level waste that has to be disposed of. 
There has been much talk about plutonium, and indeed much more will be said about it in the debate to come. Plutonium is more a toxic substance than source of radio-active problems. An ordinary sheet of paper round plutonium will shield a person from any radiation from it, but in a powder form it is a very serious toxic problem if it is taken into the lungs or the digestive tract. It can cause cancer, and nobody is denying that; but arsenic and cyanide also can cause death, and they do not have even a half life. They remain what they are right through their life. So plutonium is like any other poison. What does not reach man does not harm him. Provided people recognise this with plutonium and it is kept in its right place, as all other poisons should be, there will be no problem for the human race. 
Twelve feet under the ground is quite an adequate precaution even for high level waste. Three methods of disposal of nuclear waste are being looked at. They are burial, transmutation and extra-terrestrial. High level wastes at present are in solution. The idea is to solidify them and vitrify them. They are made into a borosilicate glass substance which is not subject to chemical action and which is insoluble. So far it is agreed that the best method is putting them in salt mines because salt mines are recognised as generally being geologically stable, they are dry and they are easily deformed by heat and pressure. So, if anything goes wrong, and one of the cans happens to heat up, the salt will just melt around it. The waste is made into a glass button size and put into canisters which can be put down into salt mines. If all the high level waste from a 1000-megawatt power station in one year were put together there would be 33 cubic metres of high level liquid waste. When it is solidified and vitrified it ends up as 2 cubic metres of glass. It is buried at least 1000 feet deep. In reality, if it could remain undisturbed, just a few feet of soil would be sufficient to shield anybody from the radiation. All the sites which are intended to be used will feature easy retrievability in case a better method of disposal is found and in case we might be able to use the waste at some future time. 
Nuclear weapons are a problem. Nobody likes a war, but let us face it: Whether one is killed by a bayonet, by a bullet, by TNT, by napalm or by an atomic bomb, one is dead. The weapon itself is not the horrific part. It is war that is horrific. It is the horrors of war against which we as a government and governments of the world have to campaign. Nothing we will do in Australia will prevent nations from making atomic weapons. Terrorists have been mentioned. Why on earth a terrorist, other than for prestige reasons, would want to get hold of plutonium and try to make an atomic bomb has got me beaten, when he has more likelihood of blowing himself up. If he wants to take over a city, why not spread some botulism germs in the water supply? He could wipe out the population and take over the city intact. Yet we hear all this silly rot about terrorists trying to make atomic weapons, albeit crude ones. 
There has been much talk about the problems of uranium mining. This is all that is facing Australia at present. Uranium has been mined for about 500 years, together with lead and zinc, in Czechoslovakia. Radon gas did cause problems, but so did coal dust. It caused black lung or pneumoconiosis. Workers in asbestos mines developed lung cancer. As soon as civilisation started to recognise the problems, action was taken to circumvent those problems. Ventilation was improved. At Mary Kathleen no level of radon gas can be registered. An article appeared in the  Australian  on 19 November, which stated: 
Urine tests on workers at the Mary Kathleen uranium mine have shown definite signs of radiation absorption, according to unions in Queensland. 
A report by the Queensland branch of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union read to a meeting of all affiliated unions of the Trades and Labour Council yesterday said a number of workers had absorbed greater than normal radiation levels. 
That just was not true. They did absorb uranium, but the workers themselves will tell you that it was their own fault through not being clean enough, through not washing their hands before their crib, or through not washing their hands before smoking or rolling a cigarette. The men themselves know the problem. It could occur in only one section of the plant. If the amount of uranium which is present as a toxic substance just like lead is above a certain level, the men are removed from that section of the plant. It is not a cumulative poison. The men just work in another section until the level gets back to normal. The men themselves will tell you this. They will tell you that it is half their own fault if they have an increased uranium count in their urine. 
I welcome the suggestion by  Mr Justice  Fox that there should be debate on the subject. I agree with the recommendation in the report that there should be debate, provided the debate is a rational one and provided it is engaged in by people with considerably more knowledge and with less ill-informed emotion than we have had up to this point of time. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence inform the House what action has been taken or is being taken to provide for automatic adjustments to the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme, known as DFRDB pensions? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice on 9 September 1976: 
Recognising the large increases in the cost of telegrams lately and the efforts of Telecom Australia to get users to use the telephone for all telegram traffic, can the Minister advise whether any special cheap rate is envisaged for those people who do not have a telephone and whose only method of communication is by telegram through outpost radio or through the Royal Flying Doctor Service? 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Commonwealth Government restore the Petrol Price Equalisation Scheme immediately for the benefit of those people who live away from the seaboard. 
Your petitioners believe that the matter is urgent and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-If the people in the large metropolises of our country wish to live the life style they are used to or even improve it, the far flung States of Queensland and Western Australia must continue with their development. This is not the first time I have spoken about the contribution of the lesser developed States to the Australian economy. My State of Queensland and the State of Western Australia are very similar in many ways. They have large areas. But also they have large developments. They have great natural resources. They are lacking in many of the refinements found in the large metropolises. But they are playing their part in the development of our country. They are providing new industries and, more importantly, they are providing jobs. New South Wales and Victoria might have the large metropolises of Sydney and Melbourne with all their bright lights, but this country is being financed by the less populous States with their large developments and associated industries. In my speech in the Senate on 25 February 1976 1 said: 
The vast metropolises of Sydney and Melbourne might be the centres of commerce, but the business which they transact is really generated in areas far removed from their city and State boundaries. 
Of course, this is the case at present. In discussing this matter of urgency, we are looking at the development of one of these areas in Western Australia. Look first at the coal industry which covers a broad spectrum, especially in the eastern States. I have mentioned previously that this industry directly employs 2 1 000 men. Its export earnings are in the vicinity of $ 1,000m per annum and are now 10 per cent of the visible export earnings of the Australian economy. In the future, new projects in Queensland alone could lead to about 10 000 construction jobs and eventually could lead directly to the employment of 4500 men in the coal mining industry itself. All this is taking place in the developing States, the States that are playing their part in our economy. As I said previously, these States provide jobs. The consulting firm of W. D. Scott and Associates in its economic advice to business on 14 February put out some very interesting figures on this subject in terms of total civilian employment on a State by State basis. It was stated: 
If employment in each New South Wales industry had changed by the national percentage change for that industry between November 197S and November 1976, total civilian employment would have been higher by 1 . 1 per cent instead of lower by 1 . 1 per cent. 
I mention this because using the figures that W. D. Scott has produced it can be shown that the total of civilian employees has increased in Queensland and Western Australia. It has gone down in New South Wales. That is really the sick State of our nation. In Victoria, the figure has increased by 0. 1 per cent. The figures I am citing are for the 3 months to November 1975. In New South Wales the number of civilian employees was 1 712 700 or 36.19 per cent of the total. In the 3 months to November 1976 it had decreased to 1 693 100 or 35.77 per cent of the total. Victoria maintained a status quo at about 1 319 800. In Queensland the number had risen from 622 200 to 625 900 and in Western Australia it had risen from 381 600 to 389 800. The percentage change from November 1975 to November 1976 was minus 1.1 per cent in New South Wales, a plus of 0. 1 per cent in Victoria, a plus of 0.5 per cent in Queensland and a plus of 2.5 per cent in Western Australia. I submit these figures as I think they prove the role the developing States are playing. But more to the point, I think they point out that at this stage New South Wales, even with its large population, is the sick State of our Australian economy when it comes to employment. 
There has always been a lack of appreciation by metropolitan areas for the role of the far flung areas of our nation. There seems to be this antipathy by the urban dweller towards the rural dweller, unfortunate though it may be. There is a lack of the appreciation of the difficulties or the conditions involved. At times there seems to be almost a complete alienation. I dare say some of this might be as a result of the actions of political parties. I dare say we bear some of the blame there. But somehow or other we have to get the message across to the large metropolises that the only reason they exist is that there are people living in far worse conditions than those in which they are living and that those people are providing the finance for this nation of ours. This is often reflected in government because politics, if it is nothing else, is a numbers game. When you are representing large numbers of people, you try to provide for them, but the people who do not have the same representation suffer. As I said, it is the people with the lesser representation who are doing the work of supporting this country. 
These particular thoughts were never more pertinent than when a large metropolitan newspaper named the defender of Fraser Island as the Australian of the Year. There is no doubt in my mind that that particular man did not lack in tenacity or courage but, together with the support he received from southern States, he destroyed a viable industry. He destroyed jobs; he destroyed confidence in a city which was just recovering from a previous shutdown in industry; he cast a pall of gloom over a whole State. As I have heard it said, we now have an island saved for the people of Australia. These are the same people who, through litter, careless fires, wind blows caused by fires or by tourists trekking through the wilderness, ironically will cause far more damage to that island than any controlled sand mining ever would have done. All this arose through pressure from southern States and, I must say, from the large metropolises. If this is indicative of the thinking of metropolitan Australia, then God help Australia. 
In my speech of 25 February I was at great pains to point out through the figures for 1972-73-1 have not updated them but they will serve this particular argument- the role these States play. The impact of the less populous States on the economic life of our Commonwealth is far beyond what most people would imagine. Total Australian exports amounted to $6,2 14m, total imports amounted to $4, 121m, leaving a surplus of $2,093m. Queensland exports amounted to $ 1,306m, with imports of $3 lim, leaving a surplus of $994m which was 47.5 per cent of the national surplus. Western Australia- as I said, a State with very similar conditions to my own- in the same period had exports amounting to $ 1,154m and imports of $227m, leaving a surplus of $927m or 44.29 per cent of the national surplus. Victoria's surplus was 1.08 per cent of the total surplus. New South Wales provided a deficit of 18.59 per cent. Per head of population the average surplus for Australia was $157.73; for Queensland, $5 10.71; for Western Australia $854.9; for Victoria, $6.29 and for New South Wales a loss of $82.12. So at all times this Government has to take into consideration the role that States such as Queensland and Western Australia play. 
This motion recognises the role that the Pilbara and the North West Shelf can play in the future. There has already been vast development there and members from Western Australia have alluded to that. It is estimated that the resources in the Pilbara are sufficiently large to start a major and virtually permanent development. I ask honourable senators to note that comment: A virtually permanent development, such are the resources in that area. It could also support an industrial complex manufacturing such things as chlorine, caustic soda, ethylene, ethylene dichloride, low density polyethylene and nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilisers to name just a few products. The main advantage is of course that it has natural gas close by on the North West Shelf which can be supplied very cheaply. Present indications are that there is a 25-year supply. Surely in that time and once these industries are developed, some other source of power will be developed, albeit nuclear power, but that of course is another argument. We have oil on Barrow Island which we are using in Australia at present. But the off-shore petroleum deposits are in only the early stages of exploration so there is a reasonable expectation that the recoverable resources will be increased. Heaven knows, we need oil. At one stage we were 80 per cent selfsupporting in our oil. I believe the figure is now down to 70 per cent. If we can possibly avoid it, we do not ever want to get into a situation where we are beholden to other countries for our fuel and resources. So already this area has assisted Western Australia in its exports. In 1966-67, iron ore was worth $45m or 10.64 per cent of Western Australia's exports. In 1973-74 that amount had increased to $45 8m or 45 per cent of Western Australia's exports. In Western Australia employment directly used in the mining industry has risen over 5 years fom 10 500 to 15 000. As  Senator Thomas  said, for every one person emloyed in the mining industry 3 people are directly involved in close by ancillary industries. I believe that number can be extended to include another 2 people so that the number of people who rely directly and indirectly on the mining industry is one in five. We can see the vast help that this mining industry and the potential mining industry and development in the Pilbara area can bring. 
Too often we have given lip service to the call for decentralisation. It is quite pertinent to note that of all the States, Queensland is the most decentralised. Western Australia, with these developments, is heading that way. In most of the other States at least 50 per cent of the population is centred in the capital cities. In 1 966 in Pilbara there were 8910 people. In 1971 there were 29000 people and in 1976 there were 38 678 people. We can see the use there is of these mining ventures from the point of view of decentralisation alone. They have also brought to Australia expertise that we did not have originally; expertise that the Australian workmen and tie Australian technician has very quickly caught on to and will be using in future mining ventures in our country. New drilling techniques, new explosives, computer and electronic developments in mine and plant operation, improved methods of extraction and improved methods of bulk handling and shipping are but a few of these areas of expertise. 
Australia has to come to grips with the problem that if we want to maintain our life style, if we want to improve our life style, we have to accept these new developments. At this point in time there is not a better area than the Pilbara or the North West Shelf area in Western Australia. The potential is tremendous. It will play a great role in decentralisation, in providing jobs and in providing revenue for governments. But the Government has to recognise this area and the role that it has to play. It also must recognise that people living in such areas have special needs. They are entitled to the facilities that people in cities enjoy. They are entitled to telephone and postal services and television and other means of communication because, heaven knows, they are providing what enables the rest of Australia to enjoy those benefits. I support the motion. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Recognising the diesel engine's efficiency, economy and ability to meet Australian Design Rule 27A without major modification or strangling as has happened with the petrol engine, the diesel engine's improvement by overseas manufacturers so that it operates effectively over a greater range of revolutions per minute thus making it more suitable for cars-this engine is ideal for Australia's long distances- and the apparent reluctance of Australian manufacturers to be as innovative as their overseas counterparts to develop and use a diesel engine in ordinary passenger vehicles, will the Government give consideration to allowing any diesel engine car or utility into Australia free of tariff or any other restrictions? 
I rise to support the Bill although, as my colleague  Senator Maunsell  has done, with some reluctance as I notice that the 20 per cent tolerance has not been restored. As was well publicised through the news media, it was suggested that the 7 largest electorates, those of more than 250 000 square kilometres, should be still allowed the 20 per cent tolerance. Those electorates are: Kalgoorlie in Western Australia, Grey and Wakefield in South Australia, Darling in New South Wales, and Kennedy, Maranoa and Leichhardt in Queensland. They are very large electorates and they have peculiar problems. I personally thought it was fair that there should be a 20 per cent tolerance allowed in their cases. However, I support the provision for a 10 per cent tolerance and the provision that no electorate of over 5000 square kilometres should have any more electors than any electorate of under 5000 square kilometres. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland talked about the disadvantages of urban Australia, especially in the newly developing areas. He would have to be joking. In this debate on these Bills we are looking at the difficulties of urban Australia as compared with rural areas. He mentioned lack of sewerage and so forth. Good heavens above, when one gets out into the far flung areas of our nation- the productive areas- there are no televisions, telephone services or reticulated power, and the only water is what people have in their dam supplies. There is no sewerage. Yet honourable senators have the hide to stand up in this chamber in this debate on electoral matters and talk about the difficulties in the developing urban areas of Australia.  Senator Douglas  McClelland is a little like the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  It is reported that on one occasion in Sydney  Mr Whitlam  said: 'By derivation civilised men are those who live in cities; pagans are those who live in the country'. This seems to be indicative of the attitude of honourable senators opposite. If we ignore the country people we do it at our peril. They are the income earners of Australia. They might live in remote areas but I believe they are entitled to consideration. 
The 20 per cent variation has been in existence literally since federation. It has existed during the lives of various governments under all parties. It was not until August 1974 that the Australian Labor Party saw fit to remove that provision. The ironic part is that at present there are fewer people living in the western areas than there were a few years ago and because of the fewer people living in the areas - 
I could mention the inflation that was brought on by  Senator Georges'  Government which affected rural areas, the wool industry and the beef industry. Because of the lack of population it is no longer : viable to run daily mail services and we are down to weekly mail services. It is hardly viable to put in telephone lines, but it must be done at great expense to the landholder or to the Government at some time in the future. The previous Government withdrew the air subsidies that provided an air service for mail and fruit and vegetables, etc. There is hardly a decent air mail service in western Queensland now. 
Indeed, we did move,  Senator McLaren.  We stopped the rot and at least maintained one subsidy until we can look at the situation in the future. We are confronted with the situation that the isolation in the western areas of my State- indeed, I would say, probably in most of Australia- is worse now than it was previously. Yet the Labor Party saw fit to remove the 20 per cent tolerance and unfortunately we as a government have gone along with that. To my knowledge there is not a country in the world that does not take into consideration weightage because of problems associated with rural areas. Much has been said about the 1969 Supreme Court ruling in the United States of America which gave credence to the one vote, one value principle. But it was quite noticeable that in 1973 the Americans backed off from that decision. In New Zealand, there is a disparity of at least 5000 people in the size of electorates. I believe that when  Mr Daly  was Minister for Administrative Services he went to Canada to study the voting situation in that country. The disparity in the size of electorates in Canada runs to the tune of about 70 000 voters. In Great Britain, the mother of parliaments and our democratic system, I believe that a similar disparity of about 70 000 electors exists. I repeat that there is hardly a democratic country in the world which does not allow for the problems associated with remoteness. 
The dictionary meaning of the word 'democracy' usually mentions in part that it is based on the equality of man. I suppose that it is fair enough for us to talk in a parliamentary democracy of the equality of representation rather than the equality of voting power. Any electoral Act should be based on equality of representation, and thus the problems of serving an electorate. The more we reduce the weightage that is there to protect the rural electorates, the higher the standard of representation we give to the city people in comparison. Much has been said for a long time about the principle of one vote, one value. I am at a loss to know how one puts a value on a vote. 
I have tried to define the term 'one vote, one value' and it may help  Senator Georges  if I give that definition. It is a theoretical, mathematical, simplistic and rather nebulous concept of voting power that is easy to conceive, quite difficult to deliver and impossible to give credence to. To have complete - 
I am the authority. I wrote that while I was waiting to speak. To have complete equality of voting power with equality of representation one would want electorates of the same size, the same population, the same population growth patterns, the same geographical features, the same problems, the same industries, the same needs and the same methods of communication and transport. I submit that the concept is ridiculous to contemplate. 
Much has been said also by honourable senators to show that they appreciate the problems of the rural areas of Australia. They say that they will give those electorates better facilities. Let us take as an example an electoral division the size of the electorate of Kennedy. At one stage before coming into the Senate when I had a little more time I estimated that in excess of 100 countries are smaller in size than the division of Kennedy. Those countries have their own parliaments, their own leaders and their own public services. Yet in Australia we expect one man to look after such a large area. We have talked about giving members of Parliament who represent these large areas more facilities. What sort of facilities would we need for an area the size of the electorates of Grey, Darling and Maranoa to allow representation equal to that expected by city people? I say that such a member would need to have on call at least 6 vehicles scattered at strategic points. He would probably need a twinengined aircraft with instrument flight rules capability and an IFR qualified pilot. He would probably need to have an IFR helicopter available also. He would probably need staff in any one of half a dozen places and offices also. It is ridiculous for us even to contemplate the argument that by the mere giving of facilities we can provide representation to people in rural areas which is equal to that given to people in the city areas. Some time ago I canvassed many of the people in my area about the problems of isolation. I will read two or three extracts from the letters I received so that the problems faced by these people are on the record. These problems must be considered when we are looking at equality of representation. The letter I have before me is from the Croydon Shire Council in northern Queensland. I will read extracts from the letter: 
TV does not exist- some of the people have never seen TV . . . The radio service is poor. It is impossible to hear the coastal radio station and most of the time we can only get 4JK Julia Creek and 4MI Mount Isa. Sometimes at night we are able to hear some of the stronger southern radio stations. We have one overland mail service per week from Cairns, arriving here on Wednesdays, and one per week from Normanton, also arriving on Wednesdays. The only airmail service arrives on Friday mornings . . . The telephone service for incoming calls operates only from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m on Mondays to Fridays and from 9 a.m. to 12 noon on Saturdays. A street telephone box was installed on 31 May 1976, which may be used for outgoing calls at all times. Most of the business in this area is done through Cairns - 
I must also say that the member of Parliament who represents these people lives in Cairns- 
. but all our outwards calls have to go through Normanton, Cloncurry and Townsville to Cairns. If we wish to speak to a cattle station about 30 miles away to the east we have to go through Normanton, Cloncurry, Townsville, Cairns, Atherton, Mount Surprise and Georgetown. 
That is the position in one place in northern Queensland. The Diamantina Shire Council based at Bedourie sent me a letter which states: 
Firstly our weekly road mail service from Boulia to Bedoune has been abandoned. 
Secondly our weekly air mail service from Mt Isa  has been abandoned and replaced by a supposedly fortnightly service . . . which happens along at very infrequent intervals. 
Thirdly we have accepted the fact that television communication in this area will never be a reality and its associated social and educational benefits will never be felt by the people of this region. 
Fourthly and lastly one must acknowledge that party line telephones have been installed in the past twelve months in Bedourie. Needless to say every out going call is a trunk call and the costs of using this form of communication are not reducing - 
I received this letter from the wife of a station owner living up on the Cape. I hope that honourable senators will take note of some of the despair that is evident in this letter. She states: 
Today there is no future and no living left. All costs have trebled and all government subsidies cut off. The meat prices are below a paying margin from up here . . .Transporting cattle from this area has always been a major problem and big expense. At least in 1972 we did have the 'Ida Clausin ' cattle boat then subsidised by the Government. 
Our cattle were droved overland for three weeks to Marina Plains, where they were loaded onto the cattle boat which delivered them to Queerah Meatworks. Total cost being $14.00 a head. Today we have no boat and no Government subsidy. So cattle sent from here to Queerah meatworks costs $33.00 a head- a big increase. 
The road is so bad that semitrailers are unable to come to Coen or on to Meripah. 
Meripah is the name of the station. She continues: 
So we have to carry the cattle on our own body truck (experiencing many difficult river crossings) to transport our stock to market- a distance of 440 miles. 
Further on in the letter she states: 
The radio service has always been very poor. I guess we are lucky to have reception from 6.30 p.m. to 6.15 in the morning. Usually we can hear the Country Session at 6.15 and after this the wireless is U.S. for the rest of the day. 
To have the television would be marvellous- both for company and for the news. It would be appreciated by everybody as we are cut off by road for 6 months of the year and some wet years 8 months. During the wet season when the men are camped out mustering. I am often home alone from 4 to 6 weeks. These are times when television would pass the lonely hours of darkness. We live in hopes that one day we will be given this luxury ... Up until early 1973 we were serviced by a weekly mail plane. This was beaut! as we received fresh food, urgent pans for vehicles and engines as well as mail and papers. Also our childrens' correspondence schooling . . . Just over two years ago we were placed on a fortnightly mail service operating from Cooktown. This is not at all satisfactory but I guess it was better than none. It now takes a month to receive goods ordered from Cairns also its slow for letters and business papers forwarded for signatures. Should the Ansett plane to Coen be overloaded on Tuesday, our goods are often left behind in Cairns. Thus making it 6 weeks before we receive the goods. 
The Government subsidy was taken off that air service. I read those extracts just to show honourable senators the difficulties when we talk about equality of representation for people in country areas. Yet we have heard the argument advanced from honourable senators opposite that even having a 10 per cent tolerance in the size of electorates represents a sop to the members of the National Country Party. I believe it is a very necessity if we are to look after the people who depend on us. Rural people provide a disproportionately large contribution to our export efforts. This in itself is not a sufficient reason for a weightage allowance. However, it is quite wrong that the political view of these people should be swamped by the political views of the people in the cities. Representation means far more than just marking a ballot paper. It means the right to be fully and properly served by one 's member, to converse and consult, to offer and to be receptive to ideas and to see first hand community and industry problems. In short, it means the principle of the visibility of the legislator. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting, I mentioned the principle of the visibility of the legislator. It is a necessary and indeed a vital ingredient in obtaining equal representation in Parliament and, therefore, equal value for one's vote. The right of the representative to see and to be seen by and have proper communications with those whom he represents should be paramount in the provisions of any electoral Act. Given the best will in the world, all the facilities and all the staff, proper representation would be largely denied to many Australians because of the sheer vastness, isolation and lack of communication and transport in our rural areas. I pose the question: How do we value a vote? If we have not a constant, reliable telephone service, the value of our vote is less than that of somebody who has. If our mail service is irregular and unreliable, that also lessens the value of our vote. If we do not have television, our radio reception is bad and newspaper deliveries are few and far between, the value of our vote is diminished. If we cannot see our member personally and he cannot see us and our problems, how can any real value be placed on our vote? 
As I said, I regret that the Government has seen fit to remove the 20 per cent tolerance. I believe that it is a retrograde step. It represents a lessening in the equality of representation and a diminution in the value of the vote of many Australians. However, I commend the Government for standing fast against a one vote one value principle that has been espoused by so many members of this chamber over a long period, for providing at least a 10 per cent tolerance and for giving general recognition to the problems of the people in rural Australia. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to an article appearing in the March 1977 edition of  Modern Motor  concerning the installation of 'hi-dro cell cushions' along hazardous sections of roadway in the United States of America. These cushions consist of clusters of vertical rubber tubes filled with water and with small holes cut in the top. On impact the water is squirted in the same manner as oil is squirted from one chamber to another in an hydraulic shock absorber. These cushions are installed instead of the usual concrete or steel guard rails. They are able to absorb fairly heavy amounts of kinetic energy from vehicles crashing into them, with much less damage to the vehicles and correspondingly lesser injuries and /or deaths to the vehicle occupants. Is the Department of Transport investigating these cushions? If not, will it do so? If the Department has already investigated the cushions, does it consider them applicable to Australian conditions? If not, why not? If the cushions are suitable, will the Minister advise whether any of the road authorities are likely to install them in the near future? 
I present the following petition from 28 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in the Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Commonwealth Government restore the Petrol Price Equalisation Scheme immediately for the benefit of those people who live away from the seaboard. 
Your petitioners believe that the matter is urgent and your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and I refer to an article in the  Australian  yesterday concerning the transmission of radio and television broadcasts direct into the home via satellite. Can the Minister advise when the Parliament will receive full details of this proposal? Would such a system supplement the existing network by providing a service to those who at present lack such facilities or is it envisaged, as the article indicates, that there will be a completely new method of broadcasting, with resultant high costs? Would such a system, having a lead time of 10 years, mean that the Australian Telecommunications Commission might seek to curtail any expansion of existing services, for example, the provision of further translators, with the result that people in remote areas who have not a service now will not receive one until the satellite system becomes operational? Is it envisaged that such a satellite could be also used for telephonic communication, especially in providing a service to remote areas? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: What is the value of the cargo in the containers at present being held up by a dispute on the Brisbane waterfront? What is the nsk of spoilage of the meat being held up? How does the Minister think such a dispute will affect the hoped-for recovery in the beef cattle industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to allegations made in the May issue of the  Pacific Defence Reporter  that the Department of Transport recently spent $10,000 to have a second examiner of airmen endorsed on the Learjets   I ask the Minister: How many Learjets are on the Australian aircraft register and how many pilots are endorsed on this aircraft? Does the number of Learjets and pilots require 2 examiners of airmen to be endorsed on this aircraft, at a cost in the present atmosphere of restraint of $10,000? Would this apparent unnecessary expense be included in the cost to be recovered from the industry in the cost recovery policy? How many hours a year would be required for the examiners of airmen to check pilots on Learjets? 
-At present we are debating the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. I guess it is pertinent to look back briefly on the first report and to see some of the recommendations made by  Mr Justice  Fox. The major concern was not whether there were inherent dangers in nuclear power generation but rather whether such dangers were sufficient to require Australia to ban uranium exports. Our introduction to the awesome power of the nuclear age came in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Because of that a lot of people in the world who know nothing more about nuclear power than that introduction have a quite emotional problem in coming to grips with it. I think we can all concede that that is a quite legitimate emotional hangup. At the same time, because if the awesomeness of these bombs, the nuclear power industry- Operation Ploughshare, as it became known- was able to take commensurate safeguards down to this present day and age so that we now have safe nuclear power generation without any fatality to this point. 
It has been said that if our introduction to electricity was the electric chair, because of the emotions involved we would still be using candles for light. The first recommendation of the first Fox report reads: 
The hazards of mining and milling uranium, if those activities are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to develop Australian uranium mines. 
The second recommendation reads: 
The hazards involved in the ordinary operations of nuclear power reactors, if those operations are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to mine and sell Australian uranium. 
Those first two recommendations in the first report were made after the closest scrutiny by the Fox Commission. It stated that Australia should be free to go ahead with the mining and export of uranium. The third recommendation dealt with the prospects of nuclear war, and that is a different subject. Later on I shall touch briefly on the subject of the atomic bomb, which has been mentioned by members of the Opposition, and on the scares that they have about it. Recommendations 6 and 7 have been picked up already by the Federal Government in its policy on nuclear safeguards which was handed down by our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
The second report takes up all the aspects of the mining operations as it relates to the environment and the tribal Aborigines in the area in the Northern Territory. I think it must be said that it takes the matter up as a mining operation. The second Fox report is a detailed and very complex list of guidelines which could be attached to any mining operation that is proposed in a unique area such as the Northern Territory. As well as having one of the largest uranium lodes in the free world the Northern Territory is also a unique area. 1 find myself on one of the few occasions in agreement with  Senator Mulvihill  on the uniqueness and the beauty of the Northern Territory. It is these aspects that  Mr Justice  Fox has tried to come to grips with in his second report. That is why he had laid down such a detailed list of guidelines. The area is spectacular. There are large populations of waterfowl and bird life. There are unique plant species, fish species, native mammals and all that could be imagined that would go into a tropical wilderness and wonderland. 
To protect this area the national park proposal has been before us for some time. While the proposal was being looked at we became aware of the fact that the area contained one of the largest uranium lodes in the world. Thus we have to come to grips with the problems, and  Mr Justice  Fox has indeed tried to do so. He has come up with suggestions that would in part allow mining and also protect the uniqueness of the area. At the same time we must recognise that there is an Aboriginal population in the Alligator Rivers area with a history which can be traced back for about 25 000 years. There are archaeological sites, art galleries and rock paintings. All these sites are extremely valuable for the history of Australia and to the Aboriginal race.  Mr Justice  Fox has tried to come to grips with this aspect also when looking at the situation in the Northera Territory. 
Unfortunately the relationship of the tribal Aborigines with the white man has not been a happy one.  Mr Justice  Fox found that the morale, employment, health and education of these people was at an extremely low level. I think we all concede that one of the major problems was the introduction of alcohol into their way of life.  Mr Justice  Fox mentions this throughout his report. Some few years back when we decided to give the Aborigines the right to vote and the right to drink we thought we were somehow or other enhancing their prospects. In retrospect, it has done irreparable damage to these people. There are drunken brawls, hardships for mothers and children and interruptions in employment, education and, what is worst of all, in their traditional ceremonies. 

 Mr Justice Fox agreed that uranium mining would be highly profitable and that there would be benefits to the Australian shareholders and to the Australian citizens through the taxes that would be paid. There would be benefits to the Aborigines through the royalties that would go to them. Uranium mining would provide jobs and, of course, this is a most important aspect when we are looking at the emerging state of the Northern Territory. It would give the Territory an industry other than the grazing industry, which we know is having the utmost trouble. The overall earnings from uranium mining have been estimated to rank with those of the black coal and iron ore industries in our country. We have to come to grips with the fact that the uranium lode in the Northern Territory is a vast source of energy. We have to balance that against the uniqueness of that part of the Northern Territory landscape. 
We cannot possibly imagine that we can sit on such a large source of energy forever. We can imagine what would happen if one of the largest oil producing countries in the world in the Middle East turned off the taps overnight. The world would be in turmoil. Se we have to think of the same situation when we are looking at our uranium. It is nothing more or less than a source of energy. We are fast running out of our fossil fuels. Fox mentioned this in his first report. He said that our coal would last about 206 years, our petroleum 39 years and our liquid petroleum gas 55 years. Of course it must be taken into consideration that these estimates depend on our usage, known reserves and any further finds that are made. Everybody must realise that these reserves are finite. They will not last forever. We have a responsibility to see as far as we possibly can that they are used in the best and most efficient manner. 
In any major steps that mankind takes forward there are risks. This time the risks have been well calculated. As I said in my opening, we knew what we were in for because of the atomic explosions at Hiroshima and Nagasaki and we were able to take commensurate safeguards to protect future generations. Nuclear power generation is now a fact of life. As of the first of this month there were 184 nuclear power generators operating, 204 being built, 102 ordered and 291 planned. One of the major concerns that is expressed by people everywhere is the hazard of radiation. It does not seem to have become obvious to most people that we are subject to radiation every day of our life. It is known that 83.7 per cent of the radiation comes from the earth, the sun and outer space, 1 3.5 per cent from medical use and X-rays, 2. 1 per cent from nuclear fallout, 0.7 per cent from industrial and miscellaneous use, including our watching of the idiot box and 0.0 1 per cent from the nuclear fuel cycle. 
Of course it is well known that some areas of the world have higher radiation than other areas. In some areas there is a.vast amount of thorium in the soil or cities are built on granite. Both these elements have radioactivity. Rome, for instance, is a high radiation area; Dunedin in New Zealand is a low radiation area. Yet there is no perceivable genetic or medical damage. Certainly there is not a mass exodus of people from Rome to Dunedin. We know that radiation has an effect above certain levels and can be responsible for genetic mutation. We do not have much information on its effect on human life on which to work, but we have the experience of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. An American medical specialist,  Dr Leonard  Sagan, Assistant Director of Environmental Health at the Palo Alto Medical Clinic, California, who has supervised numerous medical studies of the bomb survivors told a Los Angeles engineering and science seminar last April: 
Horror stories about nuclear radiation health effects are disproved by studies of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki survivors. There has been a  0.3  per cent increase in their cancerleukaemia death rate. Detailed studies of  73 000  pregnancies during  19s3-s4  failed to show abnormally high rates of stillbirths, miscarriages, infant mortality or congenital malformations. 
On 8 March this year  Senator Keeffe  asked a question upon notice in four sections. He asked: 
1  ) What is the total number of deformities and ' monster' births in Japan that are related to the two atomic bomb explosions in  1945. 
Are such deformities and 'monster' births still occurring. 
For how long are such deformities and births likely to occur. 
What effect have these explosions had on the genetic structure of the people involved. 
I will precis the answer. It states: 
The following are typical results of the studies of these non-genetic abnormalities given in the scientific publication to which reference has been made. 
About  13  per cent of a group of children irradiated in  utero  as a result of the atomic bomb explosions showed a mean reduction of head circumference at maturity of about  1  centimetre compared with an incidence of about  4  per cent of a like deformity in a control group of Japanese children in  utero  at the time of the explosions but not exposed to radiation doses. 
In other words, for those who were in utero at the time it was 9 per cent worse than for those in the control group. The answer went on: 
On the other hand about  3  per cent of a group of children irradiated in  utero  as a result of the atomic bomb explosions showed evidence of some mental retardation compared with an incidence of about  1  per cent in the control group. 
In other words, those who were in utero at the time were about 2 per cent worse. The answer also stated: 
As already indicated in answer to pan  1  of the question, in some of the children born of mothers who were pregnant at the time of the atomic bomb explosions, effects of a developmental character occurred. These effects are not hereditary in origin and will not continue to occur. 
On the basis of the studies carried out to date there is no evidence of any effects on the genetic structure of the Japanese population of Hiroshima and Nagasaki exposed to the atomic bomb explosions. 
That is the only study that we have been able to do, but fortunately it proves that the genetic effects are not great and certainly not hereditary. We are going to get to the stage when the economics of the situation will not be the main criterion. As I have said, the criterion will be the preservation of our fossil fuels. I think we all would agree that we would have to go down in history as one of the most wasteful generations that has ever been put on earth. We have to come to grips with the situation that the fossil fuels that we are using in enormous amounts are finite and indeed some of them will not last past the current generation. I believe that at present we could be doing such things as making more use of electric cars. I see no reason why, even with our present technology, the second family car should not be an electric vehicle. We know enough to know that we can get 45 to 50 kilometres between recharges. I see no reason why parking lots at railway stations and parking meters in towns should not have plug-in points for electric cars so that electric cars could be used with greater benefit to mankind. Think what they would do to the pollution problems in central Sydney and Melbourne. Maybe we could get rid of this ridiculous Australian design rule 27a, which was instituted only because of the exhaust emission levels in Sydney and Melbourne but which is stifling motor cars right around the country. It is making us burn more petrol to get less power. 
Any electric power generated should be generated either by nuclear reactor or by the burning of coal. I think it is of the utmost folly that any large power station in this day and age should use anything other than those methods. To think of using the portable fuels, as I call them- fuel oil and liquid petroleum gas- is most wasteful because we will need our portable fuels for our transport system. They are the most useful fuels and the easiest to carry as far as aircraft, railways and motor transport go. 
As the power requirements of developing countries rise in the future they will be looking more to nuclear power generation, especially those that cannot meet their own fossil fuel requirements. It has been estimated that for a 1000 megawatt power generator the annual fuel consumption would be 2.3 million tonnes of coal, 420 million gallons of fuel oil, 64 billion cubic feet of liquid petroleum gas or 30 tonnes of enriched uranium or, in yellowcake standards, 130 to 140 tonnes of yellowcake as it leaves 
Australia. I do not need to say what this means as far as transport and the ancillaries are concerned. To have a 2 -month coal supply, for instance, there would have to be 45 acres of land under coal stockpile. So we see the problem that we will face in the future, especially the developing countries that do not have their own fossil fuels. It costs only about one-and-a-half times the cost of a 1000 megawatt coal-fired power station to put in a nuclear power station and the running costs are now less. 
When we look at the waste releases we find that 7 million tonnes of carbon dioxide are released from a coal powered station, 1 million tonnes from a fuel oil station and 60 billion cubic feet from a natural gas powered station. Sulphur dioxide released from coal is 24 000 tonnes depending on the coal content and 2 1 000 tonnes from fuel oil. So it goes on. By using a nuclear powered reactor we are cutting down the necessity for our ancillary industries to provide fuels and we are cutting down by a tremendous amount the dissipation of wastes, both on to the earth and into the atmosphere. 
It has been estimated that, depending on the positioning of the power station and the number of scrubbers that it has in its funnel stacks, between 10 and 100 people die each year because of the noxious emissions from a fossil fuel power station. In all the years of nuclear power generation there has not been one death. So every time we put in a fossil fuel power station instead of a nuclear powered reactor we are condemning between 10 and 100 people a year to death. I ask the Opposition to think about that. 
One of the problems that has been raised quite often is that of heat pollution. Nuclear power stations give out a tremendous amount of heat. Fox discussed this and he said that not enough is known about the atmosphere for confident predictions to be made of the actual consequences of any increases in carbon dioxide dust or low temperature heat release. However, evidence indicates that carbon dioxide and dust are the more important factors. Low temperature heat release, to which nuclear energy contributes, is directly related to total human energy use. At present it contributes to the biosphere only about one tenthousandth of the energy input from the sun. I understand that in some places of the earth where cities are being designed around nuclear powered reactors the heat produced, instead of going into the atmosphere or into sea inlets as is often the case, is being used to heat the houses of the inhabitants. So another saving is being made there. 
Society tends to tolerate technologies which can inflict a steady flow of casualties amounting to millions over a period of time but unfortunately it rejects a situation where maybe- I repeat 'maybe'- hundreds or even thousands of casualties may be sustained at points in time perhaps 100 years apart. I instance the motor vehicle. It has been estimated that the motor vehicle has caused 25 million deaths since 1898, yet who would dare to suggest that we do away with the motor vehicle? When we are looking at the nuclear fuel cycle we are taking a mineral which is found at random throughout the universe, using its energy, concentrating the waste and the burying it in selected areas. Much has been said and will be said and much concern has been expressed over waste disposal.  Senator Douglas  McClelland went into the subject at length. Much has been done towards vitrification. I mentioned this in my speech on the First Report. 
The Americans are looking at a scheme whereby the waste can be buried underground or in holes dug in the seabed. The British are also looking at disposal ofthe waste in the sludge on the seabed. Not only could it be done in glass form but they are also looking at doing it in either bronze or lead. It is estimated that with the vitrification process, which is making it into glass, the leaching can take about 1 million years. Strontium or caesium, which are two of the products of high level waste, have a half life of about 30 years. This means that in 300 years they are literally of no further problem. Of course, plutonium is a different subject. Its half life is a little in excess of 24 000 years, so we are looking at 250 000 years before its radioactivity is such that it is completely harmless. But if we can vitrify it, put it in bronze or lead and store it in a place where it will leach out slowly over a period of 1 million years, a lot of our problems are not as insurmountable as they first appear. At the present dme low level waste is being dumped, under international agreement, in the Atlantic Ocean. At present there is no knowledge of any effect on the food chain. I would say that that is a more dangerous operation than the solidification, by whatever means, of high level waste and putting it either in the ocean or in salt mines. It has been suggested that central Australia, because it is geologically stable, would be an ideal area. I personally have no hangups about that. We could bury the waste out there. We could even take tourist buses out for people to look at it; that is how dangerous it would be. Perhaps some of the members of the Opposition who express such concern would be prepared to stand a 24-hour watch. At least they might be contributing something more significant than they are contributing at this point in time. 
I turn now to plutonium. Recently I read an article in  Time  magazine, to which I usually give a bit of credit for common sense, which stated that plutonium was twenty thousand times more toxic than cobra poison. I do not know whether one dies twenty thousand times quicker than from cobra poison or whether the death is twenty thousand times worse. It is a rather ridiculous remark. Plutonium, like any other poison, is dangerous only if it gets to mankind.  Senator Melzer  made some remark about there being enough plutonium to kill every person in the world. First of all it has to get to every person in the world. I suppose that there is enough cyanide or enough arsenic to get to every person in the world. If one takes a bit of arsenic or cyanide one is dead. I challenge the Opposition to tell me of one person anywhere who died of plutonium poisoning. There is no record of it. 
Plutonium is an alpha emitter and it is a well known fact that a cigarette paper will protect a person from any radiation from plutonium. That is quite correct. If a person swallowed it, it would probably be excreted. If it reached a person's lungs it would probably kill him over a period of time. I reiterate that cyanide would kill him instantaneously. If it happened that a person came in contact with plutonium in a certain manner and it reached his lungs it would kill him over a long period of time. There are far worse substances with which we have to contend than plutonium and we have learnt to live with them. Because we can do nothing about it we will be living with them for some considerable time. 
I turn now to the mining operation of uranium. It is no more or no less dangerous than any other mining operation, depending on where it is situated. In Australia it is basically a hard rock mine. Most of the mines are open cut. As I said in my previous speech, there was a problem with radon gas, but there has also been a tremendous problem with black lung amongst coal miners. At the present time the American Government is paying out literally millions of dollars a year in compensation to coal miners who have contracted that disease. But it was found that the same means could be used to overcome this problem- better ventilation of underground mines. By using this method we can overcome the problem of radon gas in the same way as we can overcome the problem of coal dust in underground mines. 
We have been told about the alternatives of wind power and solar power. Let us look at the problems of wind power. It is a known fact that a 100 kilowatt wind generator, which is the biggest that can be produced at the moment, needs a wind of at least 18 miles an hour to reach full output. That is the sort of wind speed that is standard for all types of wind generation. Taking a city the size of Canberra, the daily electricity consumption of which was 2.9 million kilowatt/ hours in 1976-77, if there was a suitable wind speed, 2900 wind generators would be required. These generators have blades of 125 feet and of course they cannot be arranged in close proximity. So the area required would be about one acre per windmill. There are very few towns in Australia that have a constant wind speed of 18 miles an hour. Canberra's daytime average is 6 miles an hour and the night average is nearly zero. We would also need to have the maximum amount of storage. So using a daily average of three miles per hour wind speed over a 24-hour period, Canberra would need a minimum of 17 400 wind generators covering about 17 000 acres. Each windmill would cost about $ 100,000. Therefore the minimum cost we are looking at would be about $ 1,700m to provide wind generators for electricity, and that is only for Canberra. 
In solar power there are two methods, either by using the concentration of the sun to make steam or, as has been done at the Australian National University, by breaking down ammonia and re-combining nitrogen and hydrogen and using the resultant heat. By using the concentration of the power of the sun we need 2.3 square miles of collectors, which would be six times the cost of a coal plant to produce a similar amount of energy. The photo voltaic collectors are only half as efficient as other methods so we would need about 4.6 square miles of collectors, and I must say at at least 18 times the cost of a coal power station, and this is only for a city the size of Canberra. So there is a lot of work to be done before we can even think of solar power taking over our power generation. I would concede that more use could be made of solar power as far as domestic and commercial heating of water and the heating and cooling of homes are concerned. I believe that the Government should take a lead and when Government houses or buildings are built in the tropics they should be designed so as to make the maximum use of solar power as a supplement, but only as a supplement. That is all we can use it for at this point in time, but it could be used and it should be used as a supplement to the electricity that is normally used. 
We are doing work in this field, as has been indicated by the number of questions asked and answered in this place. We are working with the United States which is looking to us for our expertise in solar power, and we are looking to that country also. It is estimated that the United States will spend $300m on solar power exploration this year. Yet by the year 2000 it is estimated that it will provide only 7 per cent to 8 per cent of its total power output. Japan, I understand, will spend $100m per year between now and the turn of the century, and even France is spending $30m this year looking at the possibilities of solar power. So a lot of work is being done not only by us but also throughout the world. I think it is essential that Australia does its bit and works with the other countries. It would be ridiculous to see all nations spending all that money doing the same sort of research. 
As I said previously, there have been no reactor deaths in the commercial power generation field since it has been in operation. There have been defence reactor deaths and we must concede that, but the first reactors  were  experimental and were defence reactors. When project Manhatten was going it was obvious that there was a race on to be the first to build that atomic bomb before our then enemies did. It was obvious that the precautions were not as good as they should have been, not only in the building of the reactors and in their operation but also in the management of waste, which is where the problem is at this point in time. The problem was with the Defence and research reactors, not in commercial power generators. Their record is impeccable. Of course they realised that they were on show and that they would have a lot of problems with the people in their areas if they let up on safety. 
Much has been said about the Browns Ferry accident where a workman inspecting the control cables used a candle to inspect them for air leakage. This set fire to the insulation, it did burn the control cables and control of the Browns Ferry reactor was lost. But it never even breached the first line of defence. The control rods went in, stopped the nuclear fission and they were able to bring in an outside pump to get water in and stop the heat that was generated by the natural radioactive decay. I ask the Opposition what would happen if a workman was so careless as to inspect a pipe for leakage with a candle on a liquid petroleum gas farm. The results would be instantaneous and devastating. So all the problems do not reside in nuclear power generation. 

 Senator Melzer mentioned the man from Lucas Heights who died of leukemia. The Atomic Energy Commission did not accept responsibility for his death. It agreed with the compensation tribunal that compensation should be paid. There has never been a mishap at the Lucas Heights establishment. That man never worked near the reactors in any case. I have probably been as close as he has to the reactors there. We know that leukemia is a disease which affects people in all walks of life. Does the Opposition suggest that if a worker at a GeneralMotors plant died of leukemia the company should immediately cease the manufacture and sale of Holden motor cars? That suggestion is just as ludicrous as the one the Opposition is proposing. 

 Senator Mulvihill has mentioned the Finniss River, and rightly so, but I think the thing that should be made clear is that the problem with the Finniss River operation was with the heavy metals which were involved in the mining of uranium in Rum Jungle. There was no radioactivity that had anything to do with the problem causing the destruction of wildlife and the vegetation along the Finniss River. It was the result of a normal mining operation which has happened before. We hope that with the stricter guidelines it will not happen again. But lest the people of Australia be misguided, it had nothing to do with any radioactivity. It was because of the heavy metals that were mined in conjunction with the uranium there. 
Much has been said by the Australian Labor Party about a moratorium. Even if we gave the go-ahead now there would be about a two-year to three-year lead time at least before any of the mines came on line. So we have a natural built in moratorium whether we like it or not. The major concern is the manufacture of bombs. First of all, let it be stated that no bomb has yet been made out of plutonium that comes out of nuclear power reactors. There is too much impure plutonium within that plutonium. 
The Indians used the defence reactor. They used it specifically for manufacturing plutonium and it was bomb grade plutonium at that. There has never been a bomb made out of plutonium that came out of a normal power reactor. 
That shows how much you know. Once again we are up against the ignorance of the ALP on this subject. 
You tell me of any bomb that has been made out of plutonium that came out of a nuclear power reactor. 
You are making the claim. I said it has never been made and it is not likely to be made. It is such a critical thing to make a bomb that they use pure plutonium 239. If they wanted to use plutonium with impurities the calculations and the criticalness would make it impossible to do so. Countries have their own research reactors. If we stopped nuclear power generation today we would not prevent countries making atomic bombs. Economics do not come into it. If a country makes up its mind to build a bomb it puts in a specific research reactor to do so. So the nuclear power generation cycle has nothing to do with bomb manufacturing. But in any case countries usually use iron or steel or something similar in the bomb casing. Does the Opposition suggest that we prevent the export of our iron ore because it might go into the production of casings for an atomic bomb? When we talk about the ease with which an atomic bomb could be made I remind the Senate that when the first atomic bomb was made it took hundreds of the top scientists in the world, a blank cheque, and years and years to do it. It is ridiculous to assume that a country could just on its own build an atomic bomb. It just could not be done. 
I suggest that most of the other methods of generating electricity already stand indicted. As I said before, they are killing people every year they are in operation. Nuclear power generation stands accused with no real evidence to say it is of any harm to the population. It is safe, it is clean and it is viable. 
We see the situation now where the ALP has done a complete about turn. Its leader in the House of Representative and its leader in the Senate are on record, when in government, as saying what they would do with uranium, how they would export it and how they would come to agreements with other countries. We find them now struggling in the morass of selfinflicted political oblivion in trying to grasp something with which to convince the people of Australia how competent, how knowledgeable they are and why they should be the alternative government. The Labor Party's three years in government, its ignorance- albeit emotional ignorance-about the subject on which it has chosen to hang its hat and its now contradictory stand on this subject of uranium mining will not convince anyone. 
-The International Civil Aviation 
Organisation has been in existence for approximately 30 years and Australia, which owes so much to aviation both internally and externally for its transport needs, has been a very valued member of that Organisation for that time. We have gained tremendous experience because of our very reliance on aviation and have thus played a very determined part in the development of ICAO. We have been a member of its Council for many years. Australia is held in very high esteem by ICAO and in the international sphere. We are recognised as being among the leaders in technology. We have played our part and are continuing to play our part in that respect. The very simple T-bar system- the T visual approach slope indication system, as it is known- which is quite simple in operation and which has been accepted world-wide was developed in Australia. One can see it at either end of every main runway at the major airports at which one lands. It is a simple and extremely safe system which assists the pilots in adjusting the descent of aircraft as they come into land. 
Australia is making a major contribution with the development of InterScan. At present this system is receiving worldwide recognition. ICAO is looking at the system as a further development in assisting landing aids. At present the instrument landing system provides a single fixed path for aircraft approaches and landings, whereas InterScan has the capability of providing a number of approach paths. As a result, this increases the density of traffic which an airport is able to handle. It also means that by using this system noise abatement procedures can be carried out more easily and with less danger for approaching and landing aircraft. This system has been developed in Australia by the Department of Transport and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. It has the backing of the United States of America. It has been accepted by the ICAO all weather operations panel after competing against the Doppler system as invented by Great Britain and the Federal Republic of Germany. 
I must make one other comment about ICAO and navigational aids. At present the organisation is developing standards for the use of Omega by aircraft. We have heard on both sides of the chamber the great part that ICAO plays in all facets of aviation, not the least of which is navigation. We now know that ICAO, without one dissenting voice, has accepted Omega as the very valuable navigational aid that it is. It will give worldwide navigational coverage. It is a worldwide navigational aid that is available to all countries and to all people. The last transmitter, which will be built in Australia, will be the eighth one. When it is completed there will be worldwide navigational coverage by Omega, this great navigational facility. The ICAO attitude is in direct contrast to the bleeding hearts cries that we hear from many sections of the Australian community about this facility. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. On Saturday, 27 August, the Leader of the Opposition in the other place, the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, while in Bundaberg said: 
The Fraser Government at a time when it was restoring the superphosphate bounty, struck a heavy blow at the Queensland sugar industry by abolishing the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. 
Yet in the Budget Speech delivered in this chamber by the Minister on behalf of the Treasurer, he said, under the heading 'Assistance to rural industry', that $ 12m would be provided for the continuation of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy at its present level with the proposed review of that level from 1 January 1978 being postponed. My question is: Does  Mr Whitlam  know something that the Treasurer does not or is he, by a slip of the tongue, inadvertently letting the rural industries know what will happen to them if by some misfortune Labor is returned to power? 
This afternoon we are discussing the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill and the States Grants (Roads) Bill. The main purpose of the former Bill is to provide an additional $30.3 lm of Commonwealth funds for payments to the States under the terms of the Urban Public Transport Agreement. The Commonwealth provides two-thirds of that amount of money. It is provided for approved capital works programs which are to improve the quality, capacity, frequency and efficiency of public transport in State capitals as well as, I understand, Wollongong, Newcastle and Geelong. The $30.3 lm includes $5m for new projects and $25.3 lm to meet cost increases on currently approved works programs. Also included in the Budget is an allocation of $20.69m available from existing appropriation. This brings the total Commonwealth appropriation this year to $5 lm. The total so far, including this appropriation since it was introduced in 1973-74, is $ 188.33m. 
Queensland 's share of this amount is $ 1 4.93m. It will be spent on projects associated with electrification of Brisbane's suburban railways which were approved in 1973-74 and 1974-75. A total of $ 14.99m was then approved for expenditure on planning, track work and like works to facilitate the electrification of the suburban rail network in Brisbane. Other projects for Queensland included the acquisition of 23 Volvo buses and seven Leyland buses and construction of an inner city rail link across the Brisbane River, something which has been in the hopes and aspirations of many governments in Queensland for many years. At last it will be a reality when a bridge links the northern and southern rail networks in the middle of the city. There are also to be 33 minor interchange sites at railway stations involving parking areas for those who park and ride, as they call it, station improvements and bus interchange facilities so that buses do not have to go into the centre of the city but rather may bring their passengers to the railway stations from where they will be transported by rail. 
For many years there was considerable argument over the electrification of railways in Brisbane. It is indeed true that the previous Labor Administration had electrification in mind and that planning was under way, but when the Government of my political leaning took office it looked at Queensland as a whole. The money, rather than being spent on electrification in the city of Brisbane, was spent on the dieselisation of the whole railway network. I think Queensland has been lucky that the Government did that. We have borne the results of that. It has allowed us to transport our products. Indeed, with the massive increase in mining in Queensland, the dieselisation and upgrading of the track has enabled it to be the State that it is, playing the part that it plays in the export earnings of this country, regrettably though it was that we could not have both things at the same time. I would have to say that the dieselisation at the time it was introduced was of the utmost importance. 
Now we are getting on to the electrification. I look towards electrification for many reasons. One is that hopefully it will help to control pollution in our inner city areas. We may just be able to drop some sections of Australian design rule 27A, which as I have mentioned sometimes in this place previously, is suffocating motor vehicle engines. People are using more petrol to get a lesser power output, all to keep down the pollution in the inner city areas. If we get the electrification going the pollution will be elsewhere. There will still be pollution while we are using fossil-fuelled power stations to supply our electricity, but it will be outside the city areas. This also calls into question the type of lifestyle we desire. It has been said by many that Canberra, of all the cities in Australia, is the most properly planned and the most properly developed. I have also heard it said by an American businessman trying to find a few departments that all Canberra is is seven suburbs hidden behind the bushes. However that may be, it is a very desirable lifestyle. There are plenty of parks, the houses are spread out and so forth. 
But the question arises: Can we afford to live in this lifestyle? Heaven forbid that we should ever have to adopt the soul destroying practice of requiring people to live in tenement flats in buildings 20 stories high that are dotted all round the place. But somewhere there has to be a happy medium. Urban transport is one of the problems that city planners will have to look at in the very near future. Can we afford the most desirable style of living? Frankly, I do not think we can. I do not think the urban transport systems will ever pay completely, particularly considering the situation in the most densely populated cities of the world, such as London and Tokyo. London, with its tube and its buses, has a most desirable transit system, but I believe that even it does not pay for itself. 
The city planners will have to come to grips with the problem of urban transport. The people who live in  towns will  have to make up their mind whether they are going to use the urban transport systems or their own motor vehicles. It may be that governments will have to decide for them that the community can no longer afford to permit such a large number of motor vehicles into the inner city areas because of the traffic problems and the pollution they create. As I said earlier, the electrification of the railway system can only help. It would lessen the amount of pollution and, as I have said, put it somewhere else. But that raises another question. In the near future could we change to nuclear power generation and thus do away with our pollution problems completely? 
The second Bill that the Senate is discussing is the States Grants (Roads) Bill. This Bill provides for a total of $475m a year or $ 1 ,425m over three years to be provided to the States in real money terms. That, of course, will allow the States to plan properly. They will know what money they will be receiving over the next three years and will be able to work out their budgets accordingly. The legislation also requires the States to provide minimum quotas of matching expenditure from their own resources to qualify for the Commonwealth Government money. This year the matching quotas will be $4 18.8m. These Commonwealth funds will be used on improving road networks. This requirement will mean that the States will not be relying just on Commonwealth funds to improve their roads. It will mean that there will be a topping up, as it were, and will help the States to meet their existing financial responsibilities. 
Queensland's share of this amount will be $100m. The existence of those minimum quotas and the Commonwealth Government's federalism policy will mean that, as more and more responsibilities devolve to the States, they will be able to spend more of their own money as they see fit. This is one area in which I can see the federalism policy working. The States will accept responsibility for raising their own money and will be thus able without Commonwealth interference to spend their money where they desire. I think it is most important that the people see where the money being spent is coming from and be able to delineate between Commonwealth funds and State funds so that the Commonwealth is seen to be playing its part in improving our road transport system. 
The national highway program is to be funded completely by the Commonwealth Government. This program provides for the funding of the highways between the capital cities, between a capital city and Canberra, between Brisbane and Darwin and between Brisbane and Cairns. I can remember that for many years the Bruce Highway, which is between Brisbane and Cairns, was nothing more than a gravel stretch. It was the dream for many years of the late  Hon.  Ernie Evans, the Minister for Main Roads in Queensland, to see that highway completely sealed in his lifetime. I am glad to say that he was able to see that before he passed on. Prior to that the main bitumen roads were just in the southeastern corner. Shameful as it is, the people who lived outside the Brisbane area were literally forgotten. The Bruce Highway is not yet a good highway, even though it is a national highway. It is far from being a good highway. But there is a sealed road from Brisbane to Cairns. I hope that it will be improved by the continual expenditure of Commonwealth funds on it. Such funds are being spent just north of where I live.  Major bridge  work and new road work are being done there. 
Queensland is the most decentralised State of them all. I think it has been said that it is the only State which has more people living outside the metropolitan area than living inside it. Queensland has become decentralised because of the development of its primary industries. It is most important that the provincial towns in these major export earning areas be linked by good roads. Of course, in the last 12 months Mount Isa has been linked with the coast by a bitumen road. It is one of our major export earning areas. It supports a large population in the harsh northwestern area of Queensland. I have said before that the wealth of our nation is not earned in our capitals; it is earned in the rural areas of our States. I think this must always be considered when governments, both State and Commonwealth, are planning their road programs. 
Good roads are a necessity not only for our own people who are going on holidays but also to attract tourists. The roads in western Queensland have always been a bit of a challenge. I suppose that I have spent more hours than anybody else in this chamber on boggy roads and beside flooded creeks. I can well recall- it is quite funny looking back at thisspending about six hours going about a quarter of a mile and then deciding to give it away. Together with my wife and family, I have camped in a car on a stormy night and woken up occasionally because I was feeling most uncomfortable and opened a door and put a hand into the black soil of the road to see whether it was drier than it was when I woke up previously. Such were the joys and still are the joys in many cases of living in western Queensland. That is an intolerable situation for a mobile population, particularly as it exists in a country area that is doing much to provide the better things in life for many other people. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is placing a decreasing emphasis on urban arterial roads so that more money can get out to the rural local and rural arterial roads. I have no objection to the construction of freeways. As a matter of fact the quicker traffic can be moved in urban areas the less fuel is used.  Senator Jessop  touched on that matter earlier. A terrific amount of fuel is wasted by cars stuck in traffic jams. As I intimated previously, there is no obligation on the States as to how they spend their money. They are quite free to spend it on their freeways. But, as I have said, the Minister is seeing that more and more of the Commonwealth Government's money is spent on rural local and rural arterial roads. It is a pity that we cannot do more. But, as has been said many times in this chamber, we are trying to right the wrongs of the previous Administration and we are trying to get this country on an even keel economically. I believe that we are doing it. Considering the situation that existed when we took over and what we have done with tax reforms and how we have reduced the deficit, we have nothing to be ashamed of. It is just a pity that we cannot do more and spend more money where it is needed, especially on our transport system and our roads. I commend the Bills. 
My question is addressed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I draw attention to the terms of the Queensland Budget brought down by the Treasurer,  Mr Knox,  on 22 September and I ask: Is it true that in that Budget there were no increases in taxes, charges, fares or freights? Is it true that the Queensland Treasurer was able to budget for a surplus while still increasing State expenditures? Is it also true that further concessions in the areas of payroll tax and workers' compensation premiums were announced? Is this not clear evidence that the new federalism is working in Queensland as in Western Australia and the other States that have recently announced their budgets? Is it not also clear that the Queensland Government is acting responsibly with taxpayers' money? Therefore, will the Minister assure the Senate that nothing will be done to affect adversely arrangements which are so obviously advantageous to all States? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware of recent criticisms- I think they were initiated in his own State- of Commonwealth Government tendering procedures relating to defence purchases? Can the Minister say whether proper tendering procedures have been carried out in relation to the purchase of patrol boats and work boats for the Royal Australian Navy? Is there any truth in suggestions that the purchases have been politically motivated? 

 -Like Senator Mulvihill, I cut my teeth on steam engines. I ended up as a diesel man, but I certainly did my apprenticeship in the north west of Queensland on coal burners and we did not have the privilege of using good Newcastle coal. Unfortunately the costs were against our using the best. Our best coal was from Blair Athol. It was used mainly on the Garretts and the CI 9s, which were the heaviest engines that we had, and we, working on other steam locomotives, had to take what was left. It was one of my boasts that the men in the Queensland railways were the only men in the world who could run a locomotive and get steam using blue metal. 
Be that as it may, the purpose of this legislation is to reduce the export duty on high quality coking coal from $4.50 to $3.50 a tonne and on other coking coal from $1.50 to $1 a tonne. If I might say so, it is not before time. The sooner we get rid of this obnoxious tax the better the industry will be and the better we will all be. 
I say to  Senator Mulvihill  that unfortunately the whole of the industry is not as successful as some of the ones that come to mind. There are mines in central Queensland that are not making good money, especially those associated with underground operations in the Bowen Basin. There are mines there which, while losing money on their underground operations, are fortunate enough to have open cut operations and so can pick up some money there. But there is a problem peculiar to the mines in the Bowen Basin. I have discussed this with the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is looking at it. It is a problem with outbursts. Almost without warning there called outbursts, mainly off the face but sometimes from the ceiling. The mines there are doing a lot of research into this problem. It occurs mainly at depths below 600 feet. Some of the mines that have not yet got to that depth are sitting back and waiting to see what the other mines come up with. People from the CSIRO have been there. I have been underground there but  Senator Webster  has not. We are both trying to get underground again to have a look at the problem. Fortunately, some of the Minister's CSIRO staff have been there. Hopefully we will be able to do something to make these mines safer and more profitable. I remind  Senator Mulvihill  that in this Budget a levy will be imposed- I suppose, not before time- to assist with coal research and such problems as these. 
The money collected by way of levy is to go into coal research. The obnoxious thing we are getting rid of- it was introduced by  Senator Georges'  Government- is a tax on success. The coal exporters of Australia, including those in Queensland, my home State, compete on world markets. They compete against all comers. It is something to be said for the expertise of the management and the staff that they do so successfully in such a competitive market. As I have said, unfortunately when the mines started to become quite successful the Australian Labor Party, in accordance with its usual philosophy being that it is sinful to be successful, imposed this coal export levy. The company that comes to mind more than others- there have been two attacks on it recently; one by the Rockhampton Trades and Labor Council and the other by a hopeful Senate candidate in that area- is the Utah Development Company with its mines in Central Queensland. The Utah company was prepared to put risk capital into Queensland at a time when Australian investors were not. To this point in time it has built two townships of over 7,000 people. It has provided some of the most modern port facilities in the world. Indeed, I think Hay Point would now be one of the biggest coal exporting ports in the world. At one stage, with two ship loaders being used 57,000 tonnes of coal were loaded in an eight-hour shift. 
The company has provided rail facilities, as I have mentioned provisionally, at no cost to the Queensland taxpayer. We have one of the most successful and most modern rail operations in the world, thanks to the overseas money that has come in. The Utah company provided the infrastructure. That is no mean feat when opening up completely new mines. Having done all this, having provided jobs and proved so successful through its expertise and the expertise of its staff which is almost 100 per cent Australian, the company was hit by the Whitiam Government with this tax on success. The company's profit for last financial year was $ 139.97m. It paid tax of $ 103.75m. Royalties paid to the Queensland Government which at present stand at $ 1.20 per tonne, amounted to $18.95m. The amount paid to the Queensland Government by way of rail freight was $56.07m. The total paid to both State and Commonwealth governments was $20 1.31m. On top of that, the company is providing steaming coal. There is a seam of steaming coal on top of the coking coal at Blackwater. Utah is providing that coal very cheaply by arrangements made with the Queensland Government when it got the contract. Utah is providing that steaming coal to the Gladstone power house at such a low rate that it will be of eventual benefit to all people in Queensland. 
We would never have received these benefits if this company had not been as successful as it is. Why the Opposition has to have these hangups about any company being successful, I do not know. This company's success can be nothing but of benefit to the people of Australia. 
-Obviously to itself,  Senator. But  it put the money up and good luck to it if through its expertise and good management it is able to make a profit. This year we are forgoing approximately $30m in the coal export levy. Of that amount, 46 per cent will come back to us in company tax- a sum of about $ 13.8m. I think it cost Utah about $36m to $40m for the infrastructure for the first mine. To build Norwich Park at today's prices would cost about $2 50m. That sort of money can only be obtained through a successful operation. 
When I spoke on this subject last year, I said that a socialist was an unsuccessful person whose last chance to get something was a chance to get a bit of yours. This is undoubtedly the philosophy of our friends opposite as they go about their company bashing. They seek to bash down any successful company that shows a good profit in its balance sheet. I cannot let the opportunity go without mentioning the dispute involving the Seamen's Union of Australia and Utah. The union is trying to bash one of the most successful companies and harm a lot of jobs and many Australian workers. The Utah Development Company charters quite a few boats which are manned mainly by Spanish crews who work under the Industrial Transport Federation Award. In fact they have always been better off than those award provisions provide. But as a result of bans and submissions by the Seamen's Union of Australia the Utah Development Company agreed to a rearrangement of terms and conditions. 
They agreed to a rearrangement of terms and conditions such that union members now receive the wages set under the International Transport Federation Award and better conditions. I must point out that at no time did these seamen complain about their wages and conditions. As a matter of fact, when the Seamen's Union of Australia bought into this subject a telegram was sent from the overseas union asking the Seamen's Union of Australia to desist and saying that the men were quite satisfied with their wages and conditions. 
So we have this problem now that the Seamen's Union is using guerrilla tactics at Hay Point. It is causing a loss of stability and loss of ability of Australia to meet its contracts. Ships are being diverted rather than coming to the Australian ports to load coal. We have the very real problem that if perchance, by some misfortune, the Seamen's Union were to win this dispute we could not economically compete because of the increased freight rates on the European market. Thus many contracts would be lost to us with a resultant loss of jobs to the Australian workforce. We have a typical case of union leaders pricing their men out of the market. They have destroyed the Australian coastal shipping trade and it looks as though they are trying to destroy the whole of the snipping trade in and out of Australia. This is in conformity with what we have seen in the last few weeks as mentioned constantly in this Senate. I refer to the fact that the leaders of the Builders Labourers Federation and the leaders of those concerned with the generation of power in the Latrobe Valley have set out to destroy our way of life. They are using the innocent men and women of the union. They are using the families of Australia to destroy our way of life and try to put on our society their own version of how we should be living. 
At Hay Point good union members only want to be about their work. They are quite content with the conditions that they arranged with the Utah Development Co. If the Seamen's Union is allowed to win, these men would have to be stood down. Many of my colleagues in the railways ultimately would have to be stood down or sent elsewhere for jobs. As soon as the stockpiles were sufficient the miners in the hinterland also would have to be stood down- all to appease the insatiable appetite of these union leaders. These men at Hay Point are now operating under very subtle pressures to try to make them feel that they are the pariahs of the union movement; yet they are operating under the terms and conditions they have arranged. At one stage the Mackay branch of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association even tried to initiate a kangaroo court to take the Hay Point delegate's union membership from him. Fortunately, that move failed; but we have what appears to be a concerted effort within the union movement by only certain sections and certain leaders to destroy our way of life and to use the men and women of Australia to do it. In summing up, I would say it is a pity there are not more companies in Australia that are successful as Utah. If there were, maybe we might be able, even then, to pay less personal income tax. 
-I rise to support the motion 'That the Senate take note of the Budget Papers'. I do so with a certain amount of pride. This has been one of the best Budgets brought down for some considerable time. When the Government took over in 1975 we were heading for a deficit of $5,000m. The Government in its first eight months reduced that to $3, 585m, then to $2, 700m, and then to a proposed deficit of about $2,200m this year. At the same time, it has made a considerable reduction in the tax burden of the ordinary Australian people. It has done so in such a way that from now on no government can rely on heavy inflation to fill its coffers; it will have to legislate deliberately so that people can see that it is legislating to increase taxation. Be that as it may, I wish to speak this evening on the energy aspects of the Budget. 
I want to put together and put on record a few thoughts which I have expressed both inside and outside this chamber over a period of time on my concern at the energy crisis, as I see it, facing Australia and, indeed, the world. Although it caused immense problems world-wide, we owe a tremendous debt to the Arab states for holding the world to ransom with regard to energy in 1973. It was not until they closed their valves and literally put their cash registers into high gear that the world became aware of the finite nature of our energy resources. The fossil fuels on which the industrialised countries hitherto have relied are finite. What is more, the cost of extracting them is becoming higher every year. Unfortunately the major industrialised nations have built their industrial growth and consequently their economic growth on the concept of a plentiful supply of cheap fuel based primarily on petroleum derivatives. That choice is fast ceasing to be available to us. We are all realising it. 
At the same time as our options are closing, the lesser developed countries are realising how valuable their energy resources are. They are making the consumer countries pay a more equitable price for these resources. Simultaneously, there is a realisation of the great gulf between their living standards and ours and a realisation that that gulf should be bridged, and bridged soon. In order to raise the living standards of a great mass of the world 's population who live in either poverty or relative deprivation it will be necessary to provide for a greatly expanded energy use either by or on behalf of these people to meet their need for food, clothing, warmth, transport and employment. To illustrate the point, United Nations' statistics indicate that the total world energy consumption was of the order of 7.9 thousand million tonnes of coal equivalent. 
Some relevant figures for 1973 of the per capita consumption of coal in kilograms of coal equivalent are as follows: World average, 2,074; developed countries, 6,531; developing countries, 388; United States of America, 11,887; Australia, 6,064; United Kingdom, 5,558; European Economic Community, 5,000; Western Europe, 4,339. An increase in the world per capita energy consumption to bring it to a standard equivalent to that of the EEC would entail a 2.4-fold increase in the world energy consumption at 1973 levels. Therefore, quite obviously, to raise the standard of living of the developing countries would bring increasing pressures to bear on the world's energy resources. Please remember that this is only to bring it to a standard below that which Australia already enjoys. 
That means that there is a need for three things, that is, for expanded exploration for and complete recovery of our fossil fuels, for conservation in our present usage of energy resources and for more research into and use made of alternative energy resources. Australia's position is important because it is a net exporter of energy. In spite of the increase in the price of petroleum products resulting from the 1973 oil price increases we had a net export balance of about $200m in 1974, resulting from our coal exports, which offset the petroleum imports. The Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, Minister for National Resources, said when addressing the conference of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science on 2 September: 
Dwindling supplies of oil and the transition away from oil in major energy consuming economies will ensure growing markets for the energy resources, surplus to Australia's forecast needs- steaming and coking coal, liquid and natural gas and uranium. Therefore in the formulation of our international energy policies, Australia must strike an appropriate balance between its own energy interests and its responsibilities to contribute an adequate and stable supply of energy raw materials to other countries. 
I return to the first of the three points that I have raised, that is, the need for expanded exploration for and complete recovery of our fossil fuels. Oil supplies 45 per cent of the world's energy needs and 47 per cent of Australia 's energy needs. In 1976 Australia consumed 222 million barrels or 28 million tonnes of petroleum products. Of that 65.5 per cent came from locally produced crude. The Esso-BHP fields in the Bass Strait provided 92 per cent of that amount. Both the Moonie and Barrow Island oil fields have declining outputs. The Bass Strait field is expected to start to decline in output by about 1981-82. Australia thus faces serious problems arising from the gradual exhaustion of its presently known crude oil reserves. Our self-sufficiency is expected to decline to around 50 per cent by 1979-80 and our import bill is expected to reach almost $2,000m at that time in 1977 prices. It will further decline to about 30 per cent in 1985 and our import bill will rise further to approximately $3,000m in 1977 prices. 
This decreasing supply of domestic crude oil is not only expensive but also leaves Australia in a vulnerable position in relation to any oil embargoes that may be imposed by any of our suppliers. Further, irrespective of any oil discoveries that may be made in Australia in the intervening period, it is unlikely that any major alterations could be made to those predicted shortfalls due to the lag time involved in bringing newly discovered fields into production. So, whether we like it or not, we will be still vulnerable to withholding actions and price increases by our suppliers. In recognition of the insecurity of our supplies of crude oil, the Government announced in this Budget a crude oil policy. The main objectives of it are, firstly, to encourage greater oil exploration and development; secondly, effectively to increase the amount of oil available from presently known fields; thirdly, to encourage greater economies in energy usage and to encourage people to use other fuels in preference to oil; and fourthly, to foster a new intensive search for alternatives to oil. 
The Government has decided to implement a scheme which will take the price of indigenous crude oil from presently known fields in the direction of import parity. For some years now our price for petroleum products has been unrealistic. We have consequently been using these products with no thought for tomorrow. The situation obviously could not last and new discoveries had to be made. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Budget Speech: 
In partial recognition of these truths, the previous Government announced, and we have maintained, a policy applying import parity prices to oil discovered after 14 September 1975. 
With our greater dependence on overseas crude, the price to our consumers of petroleum products was set for a dramatic rise in the near future. The Government therefore decided to move prices gradually to a more realistic level. This approach allows us to avoid the large, abrupt and predictable rise which would inevitably occur. It will hopefully mean that people will become more energy conservation conscious right now. It will be implemented in the manner announced in the Budget Speech, which was as follows: Firstly, the amount of oil or fuel to be sold at import parity prices in the first year will be 10 per cent or 6 million barrels per annum, whichever is greater. In the three subsequent years the corresponding proportions will be 20 per cent, 35 per cent and 50 per cent. There is to be an orderly transition to full import parity price as soon as possible thereafter. Secondly, there is an increase in the production levy on crude oil from $2 to $3 per barrel. Thirdly, there is to be consideration of whether the levy should be replaced by a resources tax. Fourthly, the duty on petroleum products is to be increased by 0.25c per litre or 1.13c per gallon. Fifthly, the decisions are estimated to result in an increase in the retail prices of about 2.5c per litre or about 1 lc per gallon in 1977-78. Lastly, there is to be a pricing policy that will encourage new exploration and ensure full recovery of known deposits. 
That will lead to a price rise of about 2.5c per litre. On that basis our capital city prices for regular petrol will rise to about 19c or 20c per litre, which is still less than most motorists pay overseas. For example, in New Zealand petrol is about 25c per litre. In Germany, Sweden and 
Britain it is over 30c per litre. In Japan it is 38c per litre and in France it is 39c per litre. My only regret is that the Government has not used this opportunity to bring in a fuel equalisation scheme. The prices I have quoted for petrol overseas are already being paid in the western areas of our nation. I think the Government missed a golden opportunity when it was re-pricing our oil system to bring about some parity so that the people in the inland areas of our country would not be nearly as disadvantaged as they are today. The new arrangement will effectively increase the amount of oil available from presently known fields. Over 400 million barrels of oil or two years of consumption are locked up in fields from which it cannot be economically extracted at current prices. We obviously cannot afford to leave this oil in the ground. 
With regard to coal, Australia 's in situ reserves of black coal, most of which is in New South Wales and my home State of Queensland, are estimated to be not less than 220,000 million tonnes. Saleable coal is estimated to be about half this amount. The reserves which have been adequately delineated by drilling and which are considered to be economically recoverable with current technology amount to about 14,000 million tonnes after allowance has been made for the inevitable washing process. This is sufficient for more than 200 years consumption at our present rate. Approximately 65 million tonnes of black coal were produced in the calendar year 1975. However, comparatively little research has been done into our coal industry. In recognition of this as I mentioned in the debate on the coal export levy legislation last week the Government in the Budget announced a levy of 5c per tonne on coal production in Australia in the next three years to finance coal research. These funds will enable the Government to supplement and co-ordinate the existing research efforts, particularly those undertaken by the Commonwealth through the very valuable research activities of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
In my speech last week I mentioned some of the peculiar problems with mining underground seams below the 600 foot level in the Bowen basin and the cause of the problems. Indeed, safety is involved. CSIRO already has had a look at it, I hope that with the money raised by this 5c per tonne levy, more can be done towards overcoming this problem. The second point that I raised was conservation in our present usage of our energy resources. We would have to go down in history as one ofthe most wasteful generations on earth as far as our energy resources are concerned, especially so far as the fossil fuels are concerned and in our use of petroleum products, in particular. 
I refer again to the United Nations figures on coal equivalent of energy usage. Honourable senators will realise that the developing countries have a long way to go to reach our standard of living. Then, for them to reach a standard lower than ours but comparable with the European Economic Community will require a vast increase in the consumption of world energy. I raise the question: Can the world afford to have countries such as Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States of America living with such high standards? It is not really good politics for a government to go out and fight any election by suggesting to the electors that their standard of living is too high and that they should reduce it. However, I believe that governments can encourage people to maintain that standard of living but with much less energy requirement. 
In Australia it has been estimated that transport consumes 25 per cent of our total energy requirement. Transport also consumes about 60 per cent of petroleum products. Of the petroleum energy used by transport, motor vehicles of all types use 79 per cent; rail, 8 per cent; sea, 8 per cent; and air, 5 per cent. So, it is not hard to see where conservation should begin. People should be encouraged to purchase the type of vehicle that they require, not necessarily what the glossy advertisement tells them they should have. For people who are continually travelling long distances, a case can be made for the use of the under-stressed six or small V8 engine. However, the use of such vehicles for normal commuting social and leisure activities will soon be very hard to justify. I think that quite a few people would be surprised at the versatility, the flexibility and the economy of fourcylinder engines that are now available in motor vehicles. 
I think that with present technologies more use should be made of the electric vehicle. It should be encouraged, especially in cities and large provincial towns where parking lots, parking stations and, indeed, parking meters can be so designed that the car can be plugged in and the battery topped up. I understand that right now they have been developed to a stage where they have a range of approximately 50 kilometres. Small delivery vans also should be electric. In the United Kingdom for about 20 years now, bread and milk have been delivered around the major cities in electric vehicles. This, of course, as well as saving our portable fuels would do a tremendous amount towards reducing the pollution we have in our inner city areas. Then, maybe we will be able to ease up on Australian Design Rule 27A. I think governments should carefully consider solutions by motor vehicle manufacturers to particular guidelines laid down for reducing pollution, especially when, they come up with solutions as they have done to circumvent Australian Design Rule 27A. Crazy as it may seem, that solution actually increases fuel consumption and means a loss of power. 
I believe that there are engines on the market that can meet Australian Design Rule 27a requirements without the suffocating plumbing that has been put on the vehicles by our major manufacturers. In the knowledge that a diesel engine can meet Australian Design Rule 27a requirements, without the suffocating plumbing that is necessary on a petrol engine, and because of the apparent reluctance of Australian manufacturers to be as innovative as their overseas counterparts, I cannot see why diesel cars cannot be allowed into Australia tariff free and quota free. I also find it ridiculous that electric vehicles attract full tariff when there is not an equivalent Australian manufacturer to protect. 
Therefore, whereas I wholeheartedly agree with the Federal Government's new crude oil pricing policy, there is still much that it can do by way of tariff reduction to encourage development of cleaner and more efficient engines, especially when such engines are available overseas. At the same time, it can encourage better technical development and competition in our over-protected local motor vehicle manufacturing industry. Much has been said about shoddy workmanship by Australian motor vehicle manufacturers. Indeed, there is much to be said but I think the manufacturers themselves have a lot to answer for in the type of vehicle that they have dished up to the Australian public for a long time. I once heard a very disgruntled man stand beside his new vehicle which was obviously a lemon. A friend asked him: 'What model is it?' He said: 'It is not a model; it is just a horrible example'. So, we have Australian manufactured vehicles that are not of good design. They are not made for the tropics. Much has been said about the glass areas. One needs to have good visibility in a car but in the tropics that glass area lets in a tremendous amount of sun. I do not know how much vision we want. A man can drive a Centurion tank while looking out of just one little slit. He does not seem to have too many collisions although it must be said that there is nothing bigger that he has to worry about other than a locomotive. 
I think the traffic might have the slight disadvantage. There is only so much you can see out of any area of glass. We have the ridiculous situation where the turret of the vehicle is such that if the sun is directly above the vehicle it shines in all around the car because of its shape. Thus, we have to put air conditioning in our vehicles to make them at least comfortable in the tropics. The manufacturers of Australian designed cars have a lot to answer for. They have gone for the big fuel consuming engines. Yet, on the Continent, they have vehicles that could pace our vehicles speed wise, are better at road holding and burn only a fraction of the fuel. Yet, for some unknown reason to protect our over-protected industry, the Government sees fit to impose heavy tariffs. So, we have the crazy situation, on the one hand, where we are introducing legislation to conserve fuel and then, on the other hand, we are doing everything in the world to prevent more fuel economy and more efficient vehicles coming in. 
There also has to be what I would call a heavy right foot syndrome education program. The increased price of petrol undoubtedly will help. Where I live, I constantly have to listen to the squeal of tyres at the bottom of the street and the wide open throttle roar of various vehicles as their drivers point them- I say 'point them' because there is no way in the world one could construe this action as driving- past my place until a squeal of brakes announces the fact that they have reached the next major intersection. This type of behaviour should result in immediate prosecution and the lifting of a licence, not because of the affront to my intolerant 41 -year-old ears but because of the obvious criminal waste of a sparse fuel resource. Consider the absurdity of the situation. You force the vehicle around a corner to such an extent that centrifugal force overcomes the friction between the tyre and the road; you roar through the gears and come to a screaming halt at the next intersection. 
To add folly to absurdity, this type of action is often undertaken by one person, or maybe two people, behind a high-powered six-cylinder or V8 car. In this type of manoeuvre you cannot possibly burn all the fuel that you pour through the engine. So there you have it: Excess fuel burned, very little time saved, a lot of people annoyed, unburnt fuel wasted and poured through the exhaust to pollute the atmosphere. 
You certainly waste more fuel doing that than if you exceed the speed limit by a few kilometres per hour, yet the authorities seem to find it far easier to sit behind the little electronic box under a shady tree and catch you out in that way. 
In recent years much stress has been placed on defensive driving as a means of accident prevention and I wholeheartedly support this concept. For some time I have given it another name, and it is generally accepted also as a means of saving fuel, especially in towns and cities. I simply call it reading the traffic'. Briefly, it means observing the traffic flow, traffic signs, signals and road conditions well ahead of your vehicle. This should prevent your frequently making stops and starts. Instead, you keep your vehicle moving smoothly and therefore use less fuel. 
State and local authorities also have a considerable part to play and, indeed, have a lot to answer for. The most obvious instance, I suppose, is where multiple traffic lights are installed. They should be synchronised and, where a single intersection is so equipped, the lights should be so controlled by road sensors that the traffic considered to be on the main road is not being held up by a red light when there is no traffic crossing a particular intersection. 
I also consider that priority roads should be established, so indicated, and protected by 'give way' signs against the cross traffic. This would, hopefully, do away with most stop signs and mean that when there was no traffic on the priority road the cross traffic could move through without necessarily stopping. It would also obviate the crazy situation that you now have where a car will stop to give right of way to a car already stopped at a 'give way' sign, not knowing that the 'give way' sign is against the other vehicle. Hopefully, it will also see a downturn in the importance of the right of way rule. In short, road traffic signs and signals should be so placed as to give the maximum traffic flow to the greatest number of vehicles and, in any case, to avoid unnecessarily impeding the flow of vehicular traffic. 
I believe that rail and sea are going to play an increasing part in long distance transportation, if for no other reason than their efficient use of fuel. Our railways are government-owned, and likely to continue to be, but, as is happening already, the railways and shipping companies will carry the freight from point A to point B, and private enterprise will collect and distribute it at either terminal. This system caused quite a trauma when it was introduced in my own State but it actually meant an increase in rail traffic. The goods to be carried were collected by private enterprise and packed in wagons, and the train was assembled and went on its way. We found that more and more people used this means of transport in preference to road transport. 
If an alternative fuel supply is not found, and conservation and more efficient use of fuel are not implemented to an adequate degree, not only will there be serious curtailment of the use of long distance transportation, but use of the humble caravan might also have to be restricted. Before this happens, however, the price of fuel will rise substantially, with a resultant curbing of usage. 
In fuel efficiency, air transport is the one bright spot on the horizon. As noise and pollution have been reduced with the development of the fan jet, more efficient burner cans and a higher bypass ratio, thrust has been increased and fuel consumption decreased. I believe that, with further developments in technology, especially with regard to metallurgy, it will be possible to increase also internal temperatures, and with it efficiency. This will have importance for the further development of engines such as the Olympus, which powers the Concorde, and the development of any further supersonic transports. 
In the home and in the factory substantial common-sense savings can be achieved without a reduction in either efficiency or living standards. Are unused lights turned off? Does the thermostat on your iron work? When your vegetables are boiled, do you turn the control back so that there is just enough heat to keep the pot boiling? If you have a pressure cooker, do you use it at every opportunity? If you have a fry pan, do you use it? Does the thermostat on your hot water system work? At what temperature is it set? If it needs replacing, have you thought of a solar hot water system? 
The manufacturer should also consider whether he needs that large boiler, really needs steam at all those points throughout the plant. There is already enough knowledge to permit homes, office blocks and factories to be so built, especially in the tropics, as to make greater use of solar power in order to supplement energy requirements. This would mean quite a saving over a 12 month period. Governments could take a lead in this matter when considering future building plans. This would give the private sector encouragement to be more innovative, and the more it could be done the more the cost would come down. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has accumulated much data on the solar heating of domestic and commercial water supplies, as well as the domestic and commercial heating and cooling of buildings, albeit in a supplementary fashion, but this all adds to the total saving in power usage. 
This brings me to my last point, the need for more research on, and greater use of, alternative energy sources, such as has been advocated by the environmental lobby in regard to the wider use of solar and wind power. Solar power, of course, covers a wide spectrum. It is necessary for the growth of plants and trees and for the heating of land and sea, which in turn causes the convection currents that produce wind and ocean currents. However, I think that most people, when they think of solar power think of it as an alternative form of electricity generation. Australia, as I have indicated, has for some years been investing in solar research and in this endeavour is being joined by more and more countries; indeed, there is a constant interchange of ideas. I understand that France will spend $30m in the field this year, that Japan has pledged $100m a year from now until the year 2000 and that the United States, although spending $300m this year, estimates that by the year 2000 only 7 per cent or 8 per cent of its total energy requirement will be met by solar power. That country is looking to the CSIRO in Melbourne for some of its expertise, and vice versa, but to believe that solar power will in the near future take over as a major source of power generation is a mere pipe dream. We must accept a lead time of at least 25 to 30 years before major innovations can be expected. 
This leaves us with what is becoming one of the most emotive subjects of our time, the nuclear power cycle and the mining and exportation of uranium. A maximum effort must be made to conserve our portable fuels for transport. Where electricity can be used, for example in cars, trains, trams and trolley buses, it should be used, so that our liquid fuels will be conserved. It is of the utmost folly to think that crude or any sort of oil should be used for the generation of steam for electricity. We should use for power generation either coal-fired boilers or nuclear reactors. When we consider the problems of the developing countries, their need for an energy source and their lack of fossil fuels, nuclear power generation does make sense. The previous  speaker, Senator Robertson,  mentioned the problems-indeed, there are many problems -of the Northern Territory as an emerging State; but one thing that will help get the Northern Territory on its feet is its vast uranium resources and the mining of them in the next few years. That will create great impetus. It will provide jobs. It will provide royalties not only to the emerging State Government but also to the Aborigines on the tribal lands adjacent to the mining establishments. 
We have had 2 1 years of completely safe nuclear power generation. As at 1 August there were 184 nuclear power generators operating, 204 being built, 102 ordered and 291 planned. At present there is no alternative for the future but for us to go nuclear. I see no reason whatsoever for a moratorium. Indeed, a three-year moratorium is built in because that is the lead time before any of the mines can produce yellowcake. I see no reason for a referendum. Governments are elected to govern, and this Government has taken a decision after one of the most intense inquiries ever conducted into an industry. The Government took up almost all the recommendations made by  Mr Justice  Fox, and I see no reason whatsoever for a referendum. We do not have a referendum on the opening of a new coal mine; we do not have a referendum on whether to drill for oil. I was quite upset on the weekend to hear the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions talking about bloodshed in the streets if there is no referendum. That was a most inciting and irresponsible remark from a man in his position, a man who has not yet conducted a poll amongst his own supporters to see what they think about uranium mining. 
We have a tremendous responsibility. We are a nation of 'haves' amongst nations of 'havenots'. We are a developed country amongst developing countries. We do have an energy surplus, and with that energy surplus comes a tremendous responsibility. Therefore, recognising future world needs and our own needs as well as our own reserves, in the formulation of its international energy policy Australia must strike an appropriate balance between its own energy interests and its responsibility to contribute to an adequate and stable supply of energy raw materials for other countries. I have tried to point out the situation facing Australia in the immediate future with regard to our responsibilities to ourselves and to the rest of the world. I also have mentioned our responsibility to conserve fuel, and that is the role of both the individual and industry as well as the role of government. 
I have not mentioned alternative fuels, but needless to say investigation into their use must play an increasing part in our research programs. I have indicated that that is the Government's intention- the use of ethanol and methanol, to mention two, being high on the list. Both, although not quite able to power successfully the internal combustion engine without some modification, could be mixed with petroleum products up to a certain ratio. They also could be investigated as fuels for external combustion engines, and I think especially of the work done by  Mr Pritchard  in Victoria. The country one day might owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to that man's engineering expertise and the work he has done, whereby we can combust almost any of these fuels externally and completely cleanly, with no resultant pollutants. These fuels might, and I believe can even now, fuel internal combustion turbine-type engines. Hydro-electric power, because of our large land mass and relatively sparse high rainfall areas, is being used as a supplementary source of energy. Because of the large capital works involved, it usually is associated with irrigation and water supply projects or flood control measures. Nevertheless, it will always be valuable as a supplementary source of energy. 
To sum up, although our present energy situation is not an emergency one, and it is difficult to convince anyone that it will be so in the future, the Government must encourage more efficient use of reserves and energy conservation. To that end, a National Energy Advisory Committee has been set up under the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  Australia's energy resources should be explored and developed to provide for our own needs and to meet the responsibility of assisting to meet other countries' needs. More research should be done on alternative portable fuels, conversion of coal, and all aspects of nuclear power. Above all, conservation and more efficient usage of energy must start right now. 
I bring to the attention of the Senate and, indeed, to the attention of the people of Queensland the filibuster which has been instituted by  Senator Georges  over this most important Bill. The Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill is important to sugar farmers. The sugar industry is one of the most important industries in Queensland. It is an export industry of immense value to Australia. It has helped in the decentralisation of Queensland. Many people in our ancillary industries are reliant on it. Yet here this afternoon  Senator Georges,  a senator from Queensland who is supposedly here to represent that State, is trying to hold up this BUI. 
I point out what the previous Administration did not do for the sugar industry when it was in power. It was unable to conclude an international sugar agreement. When the previous agreement ran out the Labor Government was not able to conclude a new sugar agreement. Instability has hung over the sugar industry from that time until the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  was able to conclude an agreement two or three weeks ago. The Labor Government's record in looking after the sugar industry is abysmal. It would have been headed for disaster next year except for the fact that the  Deputy  Prime Minister was able to do what the previous Government could not do, namely, conclude a suitable agreement with set quotas which will bring stability and a reasonable price back into the industry. Now, this afternoon,  Senator Georges  is holding up a Bill which will be of great assistance to the sugar producers in Queensland. 
While I will not go to the extreme of op- posing this redistribution, I would like to offer a f ew comments on it. Firstly, I do not think that the distribution commissioners have taken completely into consideration the responsibility that was given to them, especially when one takes into account such matters as the community of interest within a division, including economic, social and regional interests, the trend in population changes, the density or sparsity of the population, the area of a division, the physical features of a division and so forth. Australia is undoubtedly a land of particular and peculiar problems when it comes to electoral redistributions. For some unknown reason we seem to be hell-bent on the idea that every electorate or division has to have approximately the same number of voters. That does not happen in any other free country in the world. One should look at the figures for the United States of America, which has backed off from the principle of one vote one value, and for Great Britain and so forth. 
I come from the Rockhampton area, which falls within the electorate of Capricornia. It has been said- it is literally true- that if one gets out of an aeroplane on the wrong side there one would be in the electorate of Kennedy; yet the headquarters of the electorate of Kennedy are in Mount Isa. The people who live in the bottom end of the electorate of Kennedy are probably closer to Canberra than they are to the main centre of the electorate of Kennedy- Mount Isa. I think that the people who live in the rural areas of Queensland and outside the metropolitan areas are at a disadvantage. I look for what I call equality of representation. That we do not have. I recall speaking on this matter on 23 February and saying that if we were to have complete equality of voting power with equality of representation we would have to have electorates of the same size, the same population, the same population growth patterns, the same geographical features, the same problems, the same industries, the same needs and the same methods of communication and transport. That we do not have in Australia; nor are we likely to have it for a long time to come. 
It is my contention that the commissioners have not paid sufficient attention to the instructions given to them in the Commonwealth Electoral Act to take into consideration the means of transport and communication. We have a parliament elected by the majority, but the fact that it is elected by the majority does not mean that the minority- those people who live in our rural areas- should be disadvantaged. That is what is happening at the present time. If a person cannot see his member of parliament he is disadvantaged. If he cannot ring up his member of parliament he is disadvantaged. If his newspaper is a week old when he gets it he is disadvantaged. I submit to this chamber that when we look at the Commonwealth Electoral Act in the future we will have to give much more consideration to the principle that people who live outside the metropolitan areas should have equality of representation with those who live in the metropolitan areas. 

 Senator Georges said that this redistribution is much fairer than the Queensland State redistribution. I remind  Senator Georges,  and the other members of this chamber, that the system under which the Queensland electoral boundaries are decided was introduced by a Labor government and under a Labor Premier. That system has not altered since Premier Ned Hanlon introduced it. I also point out that my party has beaten the Labor Party on that same zonal system. At one stage there was not a State seat in western Queensland that was held by a Liberal or National Country Party member; it was all Labor territory. Yet, operating on the same system, we have beaten the Labor members one by one and now hold all those seats. It is only since the Labor Party found that it was not representing the people adequately, that the people do not want it, that it has started to cry foul about the Queensland redistribution. As I said before, Queensland is using a scheme that was introduced by the Labor Party to give people fair, proper and equal representation. That is what they want; that is what they are entitled to. I must say that in the Federal area also people are entitled to a fair, equal and proper redistribution, and that is what I will be looking for in future amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
I rise to support the three Bills and to speak specifically to the Coal Research Assistance Bill. I have had the opportunity on many occasions to mention the part that coal has played in the development of my home State of Queensland. In the 1960s, when primary industries were facing most difficult problems, such as low and falling wool prices and a disastrous drought, it was the establishment of the coal mining industry in Queensland which enabled us to provide jobs and remain viable. However, I do not think that we can keep taking out of an industry without puttingsomethingback,andthereinliesaproblem.Muchmoreresearchneedstobedoneinthe industry. Research work to the value of $9.5m was carried out in 1976-77. Of this amount $3m to $4m was spent by the Commonwealth Government through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the rest being spent by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the State Mines Department, the Queensland State Electricity Commission, the universities and the Joint Coal Board. 
Although there may be conflicts of opinion across the chamber in respect of the role of coal exporting companies there is no doubt that these companies provide jobs and expertise as well as earnings for this country. No one would deny that statement. Indeed, the company that comes in for the most criticism has done much research on its own. It is recognised that a recovery rate of about 90 per cent is possible by means of open cut mining, but with underground mining, in extremely good conditions, the recovery rate is from 60 per cent down to 15 per cent. It is ridiculous not to make use of the coal resources that are still available when this country is entering an era when energy resources will be sparse. As the previous  speaker, Senator Douglas  McClelland, said, coal will have an important role in the future and we should be doing everything possible to recover as much coal as we can. As I said, the recovery rate by means of underground mining can be as low as 15 per cent and that is not good enough. 
As a result of the open cut technology at present available in Australia we can recover coal to a depth of 200 feet. Basically, no work is being donein this field except that being done by the Utah Development Corporation, that much maligned organisation that the Opposition seems to see as the most sinful of all companies because of its success. Utah is looking towards extending the depth at which coal can be mined by the open cut method to 300 feet and even 400 feet in the near future by using drag lines and bucket wheels. Development such as this should be encouraged. The Government should play its part and give every assistance. 
When speaking on previous legislation I have mentioned the problems associated with underground miningin the Bowen Basin. BHP, almost alone, has borne the brunt of exploratory work there into such problems as outbursts. The Leichhardt colliery comes to mind as a company which probably has never made a profit because of the problems it has to face. The other mining companies, knowing of the problem, are sitting back and hoping that BHP will come up with an answer. 
I support this Bill. The coal producers of Australia have no objection to it- indeed, they welcome it- but naturally enough they would like to have some part in saying how the money will be spent. It would be quite objectionable if all this money went to the academics and none was spent on the practical side. I support the Bill and commend it to the Senate. 
I rise to support the two measures before the Senate- the Brigalow Lands Agreement Amendment Bill and the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Bill. In my area, the two are matters intrinsically linked. The brigalow area was founded around Rockhampton with schemes 1, 2 and 3. Schemes 1 and 2 have been going for some considerable time and some of the participants in them have been able to get established in a small way. Unfortunately, in the brigalow 3 area the story is not quite so rosy because the participants were not able to get on their feet before the disastrous beef slump hit them. Queensland might not be the largest beef producing State, but it does have the largest number of specialist beef producers, and therein lies a peculiar problem for Queensland. Whereas in many other areas the beef producers also produce grains and wool and are able to exploit seasonal conditions in order to get a quick return from a cash crop, the specialist beef producers do not have the luxury of those alternatives. The brigalow beef producer has a peculiar problem in that a large amount of capital was invested to enable him to go on to his block. Large areas of land had to be cleared and fenced and improvements had to be made in order to make him viable, Because of those factors the brigalow beef producers were not able to get their heads above water before the disastrous slump hit them. 
In this legislation the Government has recognised that it does have some responsibility. It has been said that these people did not have their arms twisted to force them to go on to the settlements, but they were encouraged by both the State and Federal governments. In this legislation the Government is accepting some responsibility and recognising the need to provide assistance by declaring a moratorium on repayments and interest rates in order to help them over their problems. At the same time, assistance is being provided to all beef producers under the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Bill. A cash grant will be made, and the cash wil be payable when they take certain measures,* such as upgrading their herds or spaying females up to two years old so that the large cattle numbers in Australia can be brought down. 
Both these measures are quite practical. They will be of immediate assistance and, we hope, will give a bit of heart to these people and help them to stay on the land and become viable producers. As this Government said when it took office in 1975, its main aim was to reduce the inflation that was inbuilt in our economy. Any help that we might have provided would have been negated if we had not reduced costs. It would have been eaten up completely. The Government took a very hard Une but a responsible position in relation to inflation and the Australian economy. At long last we are starting to see those actions bear fruit. 
I do not know where the honourable senator got his figures. The internal statistics are far different from that. At long last we are starting to see our efforts bear fruit. Not only are we giving assistance but it is real assistance because the cost structure is starting to come down. At long last beef producers will start to have a bit of heart. It must be quite devastating when one is probably a third or fourth generation beef producer to see aU one's efforts and the efforts of one's forefathers dissipated completely through no fault of oneself; not through bad management or bad seasons but just through some quirk of fortune which is completely outside one's control. That is what has happened to this industry. 
I think it should be pointed out that rural producers generally do not have any control over the price they get for their product. They cannot total up their cost, put on a profit margin and say: 
That is what we should be receiving'. Unfortunately, it does not work that way. They are affected by the vagaries of the market and the seasons. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is to be congratulated. He has copped ridicule during the last few years but things have been completely out of his control as he and his Government have grappled with the situation to try to get viability back into this industry. We all admit that these are small measures but they are designed to assist within the overall strategies and policies of this Government which are directed towards getting our country viable again. We have pulled it back from the brink. We believe it is on the way up. I commend these Bills to the Senate and congratulate the Minister and the Government for the measures they are taking to try to give heart to people and to get viability back into industry. 
-I have much pleasure in seconding the motion moved by  Senator Walters  for the adoption of an Address-in-Reply to the Speech of his  Excellency  the Governor-General. I consider it a personal privilege and also a privilege for the State of Queensland, which I represent, to do so. The Governor-General was a resident of Queensland for a considerable number of years and made a considerable contribution in his field while he was there. Of course, it was quite noticeable yesterday that he still maintains a keen interest in the things that will benefit Queensland. 
The Governor-General outlined in his Speech the programs that the Government has put forward for the ensuing three years. I think that the Government should be congratulated on the fact that it is going to go ahead with the plans that it set down two years ago. It is going to right the economic disaster which we faced and which ultimately has had an effect on all people. It is going to continue to reduce inflation and interest rates. When those matters are ultimately brought under control it is going to create more jobs, which are so badly needed in this nation. Most important of all, to mention a paragraph of the Governor-General's Speech that  Senator Walters  mentioned, we are one Australia and it is this Government's desire to maintain that one Australia. The Governor-General also said: 
. my Government will strive to realise the hope and vision of every Australian- an Australia rich in opportunity for all its people to live the life they choose, fully and freely. 
I want to look today at one problem which is facing Australia and keeping it from becoming a homogeneous society; that is, the conflict that invariable arises between city Australia and country Australia. At a seminar on the future of the family farm that was held last year in Roma by the Queensland Department of Primary Industries one of the extension officers had this to say of primary producers: 
Big hats, big hearts and bloody bigger fools. They ought to build a monument. 
And well might they build a monument. It is probable that never before have we had so many people working so hard to produce so much and yet receiving so little return as we have in sections of the farming community today. It is ironic that a country that grew on its rural products still subjects some of its primary producers to the boom and bust fluctuations of the market place without being able to guarantee a fair return. What is more ironic is that it is the boom conditions that attract a certain notoriety, that are seized on by the media and that are remembered best by urban Australia. Little thought is given to the lean years which dominate rural life. 
Unfortunately, we have seen emerge the city versus country conflict, and comments such as landed gentry' and 'They have had it so good for so long, what are they whinging about now?' are often heard. Conversely, country people are often unable to accept that urban societies also face huge social and economic problems, that city life can be stultifying and high-rise living soul-destroying. At the seminar I mentioned previously it was suggested that the city-country confrontation could become a significant factor in less than 5 years and could be in the form of a taxpayer-consumer resistance to any type of rural subsidy or support. The response of country people to that suggestion has been that at present the rural section subsidises the city dwellers by providing cheap food and accepting the disadvantage to the rural industry of high tariffs and quotas on imports of manufactured items, which of course protect secondary industry and city jobs. The opposing argument we have heard ad nauseam is that the subsidisation of primary industry cannot be justified and that if an industry needs a government subsidy to continue to provide its products serious consideration must be given to our society's need for that product. 
Thus, unfortunately, a stand-off situation exists between rural and urban Australia, but at the same time both are intrinsically linked. Disregarding for the moment the need for exports, internally there is a continuing need for a reciprocal relationship between both areas, and all should be aware of it. The Australian economy may be seen as being unbalanced. Protection to the manufacturing sector through tariffs and quantitative restrictions on imports has placed an unbearable squeeze on the rural community. It has eroded rural exports, inflated farm costs, and generally undermined the ability of the rural sector to remain competitive and to survive. The various sectors of the economyrural, mining, manufacturing and services- are interrelated in a highly complex fashion. The product of one sector can become the raw material of another. The transport and distribution segments of the service sector link the other sectors in a physical sense. More important, however, is the interaction of factors affecting the balance of payments and hence the exchange rate, as well as the linkages imposed by competition for resources; for example, the rivalry for the comparatively little arable land that we have and for our even sparser water resources from the various rural industries in the first instance and now from the mining industry. 
The provision of massive assistance, mainly through tariff protection levied on importing industries competing with our own manufacturing industries, has had the effect over more than 50 years of transferring income and resources away from rural and other export industries. Many industries receiving assistance were originally established behind a high tariff wall, with little thought being given to their economic efficiency or longer term chances of viability. Unfortunately, tariffs are hidden from the public eye and do not attract the obvious attention attracted by subsidies. In a paper in March 1977  Mr W.  A. McKinnon, of the Industries Assistance Commission, touched on this fact when he said: 
Assistance afforded other sectors, more frequently than assistance accorded import-competing industries, tends to show up in Budget figures and, as a result, has been subject to far greater scrutiny than other non-Budget assistance measures, such as tariffs and quantitative restrictions. Perhaps this is because there is a greater awareness in the community of the trade offs that are made in a Budget contextmore assistance can only be accorded at the expense of expenditure on the environment, health, social welfare, defence ... or through higher taxes. In real terms, the decision to grant assistance which does not feature in the Budget should be just as tough because quantitative restrictions and tariffs take money from consumers just as taxes do- and redistribute this money to producers in a similar fashion to subsidies. However, although the same trade-offs apply, industries have requested, and been given, assistance in large measure by means which do not figure in the Budget. 
The proliferation of industries where Australia lacked international comparative advantage has produced a poor overall allocation of raw material usage. One reason for that is that we are an island continent and, until recently, we have been relatively isolated as far as trade is concerned. Our emerging primary and secondary industries relied on a large captive market. They were not necessarily attuned to world market needs and were thus out of step in relation to export requirements. When international trade opportunities opened up, industry had either to adjust or be protected, and that factor has contributed significantly to Australia's sluggish economic growth rate. It is ironical that it is the rural industries which have had to do the most adjusting and secondary industries which have received the most protection. I am not denying that protection is necessary- nobody in his right mind would do that- but tariffs exist to protect unfair advantages, they do not exist to protect inefficiency. They do not exist to protect low productivity and they do not exist to protect an inability or unwillingness to change. I again quote  Mr McKinnon.  He said: 
Let me state the view of theIAC, the objectives of industry policies should not be to insulate industries from long term changes in their environment. Industries often expect, even demand, increased assistance to offset long term declines in their competitive position, to insulate them from change. Relatively few industries request assistance to facilitate the adjustment to change. This is not new- change is difficult; it is often easier to resist rather than adapt to change. This may explain why in 1829 the Governor of New York wrote a letter to  President  Andrew Jackson in which he said: 
To:  President  Andrew Jackson, 
The canal system of this country is being threatened by the spread of a new form of transportation known as 'railroads'. The federal government must preserve the canals for the following reasons: 
One- If canal boats are supplanted by 'railroads' serious unemployment will result. Captains, cooks, drivers, hostlers, repairmen, and lock tenders, will be left without means of livelihood, not to mention the numerous farmers now employed in growing hay for horses. 
Two- Boat builders would suffer, and towline, whip and harness makers would be left destitute. 
Three- Canal boats are absolutely essential to the defence of the United States. In event of the expected trouble with England, the Erie Canal would be the only means by which we could ever move supplies so vital to waging modern war. 
For the abovementioned reasons the government should create an Interstate Commerce Commission to protect the American people from the evils of 'railroads' and to preserve the canals for posterity. 
As you may well know,  Mr President,  'railroad' carriages are pulled at the enormous speed of 1 5 miles per hour by engines', which in addition to endangering life and limb of passengers, roar and snort their way through the countrysides, setting fire to the crops, scaring the livestock and frightening women and children. The Almighty certainly never intended that people should travel at such breakneck speed. 
Martin Van Buren, 
Governor of New York, 
January 1, 1829,' 
Although it is easy to smile now, this was an important issue at that time. There was a concern for employment, for the effects on associated industries and for defence. How different are the arguments that were advanced then from those put with equal earnestness today? 
Economic changes in the Australian rural industry, as well as the havoc they have wreaked in a physical sense, have brought with them a range of sociological changes affecting primary producers and their dependants and employees as well as the wider community. If our nation is to regain a stable social and economic base it is vital that these sociological and economic changes be clearly understood by the decision makers and by others in the Australian community. For many reasons, and not only the ones upon which I have touched today, declining levels of real income are being experienced by most primary producers. For many, severe financial hardship, even poverty, has become established. When cyclical problems of particular industries- such as the beef crisis- are superimposed on the more deep-seated and long-term trends, the income and associated difficulties become immense. The decline in real income in one section of our economy is- unfortunately, but all too truly- passed on to other areas. The service industries, most of which are urban based, are the first to reflect the decline. Parents can no longer afford to send their children to boarding schools. Primary producers cannot enjoy leisure activities, including annual holidays or visits to the cities. Essential maintenance of rural buildings and farm improvements cannot be carried out, and the purchase of non-essential items and luxury items is impossible. Of course, manufacturing industrywhich employs large numbers of urban people- suffers and the domino effect of a downturn in rural incomes becomes increasingly evident. 
A general area of sociological change arising from declining real income levels is a serious depopulation of rural areas. As people have left the land, some of the smaller towns have disappeared or their services and facilities have been contracted. As we know, most of these services are provided by what is basically known as small business, the one-family outfit that has been in the community for some considerable time. I do not think it should be the desire of any government, least of all this Government, to see any retraction in those services. We must admit that some towns would eventually have had to go. First of all, they were built at river crossings and then they followed railroads. Railroads quite often followed mining booms and as the mines were worked out railways were closed down and unfortunately some of the smaller towns had to go. The effect of this has been magnified by the rural problem and the rural decline of latter years. It is small business which has borne the brunt of this decline. 
Although a gradual drift has been occurring for a much longer period, a rapid acceleration of the trend over the last decade has left visible gaps and created considerable difficulties. A lot of that harm can be tabulated. For example, the declining income; the number of people who have left an area; the number of people now employed; the average age of the people now running farms; the decline in living standards, and so on. Above all, there is a sociological problem. Emotional stress is imposed on families when there is not enough income to employ a son whose property the farm would ultimately become. There is heartbreak in a situation where a selection that has been in a family for generations has to go under the hammer and a sense of failure, albeit not justified, goes with it. Ultimately there is the leaving of the only life-style that those people have known, the necessity of finding a job as it is too late to look for another career, make new friends and adjust to urbanstyle living. 
For those who stay behind there are fewer services, they have farther to go for supplies, there are added costs and- strange as it may seem in this technological age of the twentieth centurythe problem of physical and social isolation, especially for the womenfolk. People who live in our sparsely populated areas are as integral a part of our nation as those who live in the inner city areas. Often, though causes differ, problems are the same. Isolation can be just as complete and just as traumatic in suburbia. Neither government decision makers nor the community conscience should ever accept the fact that there should be a rift between the country and the city. Both have played- and are still playing- a part in the total development of this nation. Unfortunatelyand with good reason- the rural dweller feels deserted. He feels deprived because of lack of communication, lack of transport, lack of health care facilities and so on. The tyranny of distance indeed still haunts us. 
Recently it was gratifying to see the tremendous effort, both financial and material, made by the people of Brisbane in relation to the drought stricken areas of Kilcoy and the Brisbane and Burnett valleys. These ridiculous artificial barriers can be torn down. We have proved that. One pleasing aspect of that effort was the excellent role played by the media. They have perhaps in the past been responsible to a large extent for reinforcing city prejudices against the grazier image of the country people. Because of the media's access to people in every section of society they have a vital role to play in healing that rift. I think credit must be given to their efforts during the recent ravages of drought in most of the States of Australia and the disastrous bushfires. They were able as never before to bring home the reality and the totality of the distruction to the people living in cities. 
So the Government in the past two years has made many efforts to assist the people living in rural Australia. It has introduced such measures as the Income Equalisation Deposits, revised income tax averaging; it has brought back fertiliser bounties and so on. The Government has indeed tried to assist these people and, most of all, it has recognised the fact that many of them have worked hard and still have not had an income. Under the beef aid scheme we have been able, through farmers using proper husbandry methods, to give them a cash flow, probably the first cash flow that many of them have had for some time. I have no quarrel with this. I have no quarrel even with their being given unemployment benefit. I would rather see them receiving unemployment benefit and still doing some work than see the large numbers who are receiving unemployment benefit and not doing any work. They will one day again be a viable part of our community and play their rightful role. 
The Government has promised to continue its efforts over the next three years to provide for these people. At long last that iniquitous tax, death duty, is being abolished. I am not sure why it was brought in. Some people say that it was brought in to raise money for wartime funds; other people say that it was brought in to break up large family holdings. In either case the effect has been more disastrous than anybody would ever have imagined. It has literally broken families and forced them away from their holdings and their properties. With petrol price equalisation, at long last the people in the country can once again have some sort of compatibility in fuel costs with city people. Indeed, anything other than fuel price equalisation is an injustice to these people. 
We are not of one heritage. It is a long time since we have been of one heritage, even though Australia is a young country. We have diverse hopes and we have diverse aspirations but we do have one future and we are all, firstly, Australians. I would like to close my remarks with a quotation from Herbert Hoover: 
Our purpose is to build in this nation a human society not an economic system. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. It relates to questions that have already been asked concerning the type of motor vehicles to be used for the transport of members of parliament. Will the Minister also consider investigating the use of liquefied petroleum gas by these vehicles? I ask this because most of these vehicles are used in metropolitan areas where vehicle pollution is at its worst and LPG basically is non-polluting and no lead additives are required. Vehicles using LPG exclusively do not require the suffocating plumbing that Australian design rule 27A requires. The ADR 27A requirements use more energy than do vehicle air-conditioners. 
I refer the Minister representing the Treasurer to an article in today's  Courier-Mail  headlined 'Tax Clamp on Subsidised House Rents' and ask: Is it true that the Australian Taxation Office will put its own assessment on the value of the rent and alter the income for taxation purposes accordingly? Does the Minister realise that these subsidised rents, as they are called, are deliberately provided to attract people to jobs in more remote areas? Does the Minister realise that the beneficiaries of these schemes are people who are part of the more productive sections of the community, for example, mining towns, cattle and sheep properties and railway settlements, and that these reduced rents are to compensate for the isolation and lack of facilities that urban Australia takes for granted? Lastly, does this proposed clampdown tie in with the Government's announced intention of using lower taxation to help stimulate the economy. 
I present the following petition from 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Charter of the United Nations clearly precludes it from interference in the domestic affairs of a country or from obstructing the free transmission of news and information between individuals and between nations. 
That the United Nations, in apparent illegality, has imposed many restrictions and sanctions upon Rhodesia which has been remarkably free from the bloodshed and turmoil of Northern and Central African lands, even to the extent now of actively encouraging armed conflict against the legally elected Government of Rhodesia. 
Lord Graham as Minister of External Affairs and Defence has said: 'International Communism is our enemy, all this talk of political advancement and majority rule is no more than a smokescreen in the early skirmishes of an assault upon the whole of Africa . . . It is even difficult to see this enemy because it is not merely attacking us, but on a broad front is attacking the whole world order, its standards, its law and order, its moralities, its churches, its patriotisms, its philosophies and even much of its learning . . . 
That Communist Chinese infiltration in much of Africa over many years, and Cuban Communist troops reported to number 25,000 are dominating nearby Angola, and possess modern missiles etc. 
It is urgent that Mozambique, now under Communist domination and which has a common border with Rhodesia, does not receive any further aid from the Commonwealth Government of Australia, which has benefited, mainly, the terrorist guerilla movements that are responsible for the deaths of many Rhodesian people. 
It is urgent for the Australian people to determine for themselves, the actual facts of the Rhodesian struggles. 
It is urgent that the Senate and the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled, will observe common justice and proper humanity by inviting only authorised representatives of the present government of Rhodesia to Australia, to do what they have been deprived to do previously, present their case fully and publicly so that this can be examined and tested, without interference, and so that the eventual impact on Australia 's own security and defence alliances can be gauged with better accuracy. 
Your petitoners request urgent action to be taken immediately. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to an article appearing in the  Sunday Mail  in Queensland on 12 March which described how a 200 series Boeing 727, on a domestic flight from Miami to Newark in the United States of America, sequentially suffered complete power loss on all three engines. Subsequently, the engines were restarted and the aircraft made a safe landing at Jacksonville. As this type of aircraft operates in Australia I ask the Minister: Has the Department of Transport or either of the domestic airlines been made officially aware of the emergency so described? Has the subsequent inquiry yet made any findings available to interested parties? If so, is any change to be made to either maintenance or operational procedures to prevent such a happening in Australia? 
It seems unfortunate, but it is a fact of life in this chamber, that at any time when legislation such as the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities SelfManagement) Bill is discussed it is a chance for people to abuse the Premier of my State of Queensland, or, if the legislation concerns Western Australia, to abuse the Premier of that State. I choose to mention those two States because under the leadership of those Premiers those States have advanced remarkably. They make a tremendous contribution to the wellbeing of the Commonwealth. 
One of the things mentioned about the Premier of my State was the fact that he was a conscientious objector throughout the last World War. This was mentioned quite a few times. I put it on record that the Premier was called up and the Army placed him into a reserve grade because he was a primary producer of essential goods. This happened to many people. Many men tried to get out of their jobs to go to the front line. I think of railway workers and so on. On top of that the Premier had polio as a child. The fact that he overcame that disability to a great extent stands to his credit. In this instance I put it on record that the Premier, whatever some people might think of him, has never in his whole life shirked what he considered to be his responsibilities. 
At this point I state that my Party is supporting this Bill. Nobody should be under any illusion. Members of the Federal Party are probably at variance with some of our State colleagues on this matter. However, in any well organised family there are always differences of opinion. I well remember that when the Labor Government was in power calls of centralism came from South Australia and other places. That is just pan of political life. My Party supports the passage of a Bill that came about because the Queensland Government moved to take over the Mornington Island and Aurukun missions. This legislation does nothing more than give the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders living on Queensland reserves the right to determine the management of their reserves- nothing more. It is on that basis that I support this legislation. It does nothing more than bring the reserves of Queensland into line with the rest of Australia. The legislation is constitutional because of the referendum that was carried in 1967. It has been alluded to often today. 
The tragedy of the present situation is that it need never have occurred. The Uniting Church in Australia- on all occasions one must declare one's interest, because of the eyes of the Press and my interest is that I am a member of the Uniting Church as well as being a State representative in a Federal House- has at all times been prepared to negotiate with the Queensland Government.  Senator Martin  tabled in the Senate today a letter sent from the Secretary of the Uniting Church Synod in Queensland to the Minister on 30 December 1977. That letter was acknowledged. But the only correspondence received by the Church after that date was the correspondence referred to by  Senator Bonner,  namely, that from  Mr Porter  detailing the six clauses under which the State Government would take over the missions. I repeat, the present situation should never have happened. The Uniting Church, in the process of debating the clauses which the Synod would discuss with the State Government in October last year, indicated that it was prepared to talk to the State Government and to negotiate. 
I must pay a tribute to Professor the Reverend Rolland Busch, the Moderator of the Uniting Church in Queensland. At no time did he seek to play partisan politics. He sees his role as being a representative of the Uniting Church and that subverts any personal opinion which he may have. He can reflect only on the policy laid down by the Synod. He has laid it straight down the line at all times. Even after that letter from the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs, the  Hon.  Charles Porter, was delivered to the Uniting Church; through intermediaries, the Reverend Rolland Busch sought to have discussions with the Queensland Cabinet to see whether the situation at which we have now arrived could have been averted. As I say, the tragedy is that his offer was not taken up and we are at this situation today. The Presbyterian Church has been at Aurukun since 1 904 and at Mornington Island since 1914. Previous to this date the Church also administered the mission stations at Mapoon and Weipa. The only help it got for many years until the conclusion of the Second World War was a 240 per annum grant from the State Government to cover that whole area. The Presbyterian Church, now the Uniting Church in Australia, bore the whole brunt of running those missions, until the conclusion of the Second World War. Financial support has increased from that time to the stage where 80 per cent or 90 per cent of the cost is now provided. But let nobody misunderstand the financial impositions that the Presbyterian and Uniting Church has met in running these mission stations. It has played a tremendous role all the way through. 
As was said in regard to Cromwell, we accept him warts and all. The Uniting Church has played its role. It realises that there are blemishes on its record. It realises that management is not all that it would like it to be. The Church has problems at this time. It acknowledges that and is trying to overcome them. At the same time let it be said, without casting any aspersions, that the State-run reserves have had their problems previously. They have their problems now and undoubtedly they will have them in the future. Indeed, I have in my hand a report from a concerned person regarding one of the governmentrun stations. All the things that we have heard said about the Uniting Church missions at Aurukun and Mornington Island could be said about this government-run mission. It is not the Uniting Church's role, nor mine, to enter into a slanging match at this stage but let it be said that these problems are not peculiar just to the Uniting Church; they are there amongst State missions, and they will also be there in the future as we seek to work among the Aboriginal people. 
Over the national news today I believe there was a story that there has been a large discrepancy in the funds of the store at the Aurukun mission station. This is nothing new. I am surprised and dismayed that this method of seeking to disparage the Uniting Church has been used. The Uniting Church itself first suspected that there was something wrong in March 1977 and it sent its accountant to investigate. He agreed that something did not appear to be right so that Church got in an outside accountant. On 1 June the accountant reported that there was misappropriation of funds and immediately the man was dismissed and the Queensland Fraud Squad notified. It is not the Uniting Church 's fault or responsibility that no charges have been laid or arrests made to this time. That rests entirely with the Queensland Fraud Squad which, of course, is a section of the Queensland police. So the Uniting Church has done what any corporation or government department would do when it was suspected that there was misappropriation of funds. It checked it out, the suspicions were found to be correct, the person that it suspected to be concerned was dismissed and the Fraud Squad was notified. What else could the Uniting Church do? The case is now in the hands of the State authorities. 
A few years ago we seemed to think in our paternalism that we would be doing the right thing if we gave the Aborigines the right to choose to drink alcohol. I suppose if one looks at the question from a human rights situation one realises that Aborigines are entitled to their rights but I think all sections of the community would realise that alcohol has been one of the destroyers of the Aboriginal race. We have to recognise that maybe we did the wrong thing. Maybe we have to be a bit paternal. But it must be said that where there is still a clan and tribal structure the tribal elders are fully aware of this problem. They seek to keep alcohol out of their reserves. At Aurukun the tribal council has resolved that the Aurukun reserve be dry and the canteen there does not sell alcoholic liquor. The people there are attempting to be responsible and to try and keep their young people, particularly, away from the problems of alcohol in Aboriginal communities that we see so frequently. Unfortunately, there are white people who seek to capitalise on the situation, to make money out of it, and alcohol gets in to the detriment of the Aboriginal people. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 

 General Business Taking Precedence over Government Business at 8 p. m. 

Before the sitting was suspended I mentioned the problems that alcohol had presented in the lives of the Aboriginal people and the fact that we, in our idealism, probably paternalism, had thought that by legislating their right to drink we would literally assist their entry into white man's society. It is unfortunate, but I think true, that the courts, the gaols, the park benches and the gutters of this country are littered with the results of our attempt to skull-drag these people into the white man's twentieth century. The problem is, of course, a very mixed one and I think that at some time in the future some government is going to have to be game enough to define a tribal Aboriginal as distinct from a full blood Aboriginal and from a mixed blood Aboriginal. It is a very complex problem that we should look at more fully. 
The aim of the Uniting Church, in this whole struggle to help to assimilate these people, is to help them do so at their own speed. They must be allowed to retain their culture and ethnic affinity. The clans do have a spiritual affinity with the land and the church recognises it. That is one of the problems that have been highlighted at Aurukun with the founding of some of the outstations still within that reserve. I think it must be pointed out that there is an Aurukun clan and that other clans present on the Aurukun clan land are not altogether welcome. This has created its own problems internally, so we have seen the establishment of the outstations on the Kendall River, where the other clans have tried to get away and re-establish, a movement which the church has not prevented, understanding their problem and the spiritual affinity that the clans have with their own land. 
The church believes that it is only when the Aboriginal people establish their own ethnic and cultural identity afresh that they can begin to relate to twentieth century white society. We probably do not understand the necessity for this. We are ourselves less than 200 years old. We have not established much of a heritage or culture and it is probably hard for us to understand, but when we are looking at a people with such a long history and such a close affinity with the land we would do well to try to understand their special problems. 
The people of the reserves have indicated that at present they want the church to remain in a management role in their communities. It was said in the Queensland Parliament yesterday- it has been alluded to outside this chamber but within this building- that the vote for unity at Aurukun was not carried. In the minutes of the 1974 Assembly of the Presbyterian Church the vote at Mornington Island was recorded as 63 to 3 in favour of church union. At Aurukun there were 147 voting delegates but, because on the day on which the vote was taken many were away, perhaps fishing or hunting, only 12 voted. Nine of these were staff who are no longer there, and the vote was six to six. So it is a misnomer to say to the world at large that the vote in northern Australia amongst the Aboriginal was very definitely against the church union. 
One of the reasons why I and the members of my party in Queensland support this measure is that it does not transgress States' rights. States' rights are being preserved. It is one of the strengths of this legislation that it does not go across the borders of what a State might assume to be its own internal rights. All it does, as I and many others have said, is to give the people on these reserves the right to determine their own management. The Queensland Government would still be responsible for the provision of health, education, law and order in the communities, as at present. It is the wish of the Commonwealth, and also that of the Uniting Church and of myself, that the State should maintain its responsibilities in those regards. So the Bill does not transgress any of the States ' own rights. 
The Constitution provides that if the Commonwealth should acquire this land in one form or another it must do so from the party concerned in accordance with just terms and must pay just compensation. It is as simple as that. The figures that I have been quoted in relation to the cost of acquiring all the reserves in Queensland vary between $500m and $ 1,000m, which gives one an idea of the amount of money involved. But the Commonwealth is just not interested. Of course, we have heard much, especially from the Opposition, about this Bill not going far enough. I would not support it at all if it encompassed land rights. I think that we will have a problem in the long term with land rights in respect of the Northern Territory, as they are under the present Commonwealth legislation. But that is another subject for another day. This Bill does not concern land rights in Queensland. So this is not an issue. I wish that the people of Queensland would understand this position 
As I have said, compensation has had to be paid. The Commonwealth is not legislating to take over any land, although stories of this kind have been bandied about in Queensland. Therefore on this basis I support the legislation. Of course, any royalties that may be derived from minerals go to the crown. Much mention has been made of bauxite. I believe that for the first time this morning, in a Queensland newspaper, it was mentioned that the real reason for the takeover was bauxite. I do not know why we should be worried about bauxite at the present time because there is so much bauxite being sold around the world at such low prices that I do not think anyone has much interest in getting it. In any case, this legislation does not affect the mining of bauxite. The Commonwealth, even if it wished to, could not take this mineral off the State without paying just compensation. Because it is Crown land, bauxite and other minerals that might be found beneath the surface belong to the Crown. The same situation applies under the land rights legislation in the Northern Territory. I wish everyone would understand that. 
We heard mention from the other side of the chamber that the courts some years ago decided that equal pay should be given to Aborigines. At the risk of being misunderstood, I would say that giving Aborigines equal pay has been as detrimental as it has been beneficial. Nobody is denying that one man doing the same work as another man is entitled to receive equal pay. But a rather different situation existed on the larger cattle holdings. It is a myth that Aborigines are natural stockmen, just as it is a myth to say that white men are natural stockmen. Those men who were good stockmen- I know quite a few of them- were treated as such and paid accordingly. But we had a situation in which large families of Aborigines camped on station properties. The men were given jobs and the whole family or clan was tuckered by the properties. This was quite a reasonable arrangement. The men were given work in mustering and general ringing duties around the homestead and property. Of course as soon as the courts decided that these men had to be given equal pay, employment for them of necessity had to cease and many problems started from there. The properties could no longer afford to pay them full wages. They could no longer afford to pay some of the wages to some of the men and tucker the families at the same time. Some of our problems, especially on the larger properties in the Northern Territory and western Queensland, started to develop from that point. As there was no work and no tucker on the properties the Aborigines started to drift into the fringe society that we find around many of our country towns today. Of course, from then on they began to receive Commonwealth benefits, grog became cheaply available and so the story goes. 
The treatment or the misunderstanding- that might be a better word- of the Aboriginal people in our white society today is a tragedy. They are our indigenous people. They are a simple people. At this point of time they are bewildered people. They are seeking to find their place in our society. They proudly- and rightly so- want to maintain and teach their youth their cultures, myths, legends and heritage. I believe, and the Uniting Church believes, that by doing this they will have an anchor to hold them steady while they seek to assimilate into our twentieth century society. The Uniting Church looks at the situation in no light other than it is a case of human rights, and the Aboriginal people should be treated as they deserve to be treated. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Further to my question without notice on 14 March concerning the sequential complete loss of power of the three jet engines on a 200- series Boeing 727 in the United States, I ask the Minister: Has any additional information as a result of the investigation into the incident yet been made available to either the Department of Transport or our internal airlines? 
I support my colleagues and the Government on this piece of legislation, the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill. I have said in this chamber before that there is probably greater imbalance between the rural and urban sectors of our community than between any other sectors. There should always be an interrelationship. We are dependent upon each other. If we could disregard for one moment the economic factors, a case could be made out on purely social grounds for legislation such as this to help overcome some of the social problems that are confronting the rural people today. Not the least of those problems is the excessive price that they have to pay for their fuel. Fuel is almost everything to them. Because of the downturn in rural population mail  services  have decreased. Many rural people do not yet have a telephone service, some of their wireless services are not the best and some are without television. So they need to be able to commute to towns and to other people's places for social functions, for meetings that encompass whatever industry they are involved in and to buy their supplies. The list is almost endless. The price of fuel is an integral pan of their lives. If for no other reason, I believe a case could be made out for supporting the Bill on those grounds. 
As has been said and as has been acknowledged, the Australian Labor Party discarded the previous scheme. It greatly increased costs and hardships for people living in rural areas. I think the ALP in its saner and more reflective moments will probably agree that its negating of that legislation was the rock on which it perished as far as rural Australia was concerned. The purpose of this legislation is to subsidise the freight differential from refining ports and seaboard terminals on petroleum, power kerosene, automotive distillate and aviation fuels. There are a lot of misconceptions about what this legislation actually does. I think it should be spelt out that it limits the freight costs so that the consumer pays no more than 0.9c a litre or 4c a gallon freight. As has been indicated in the election speeches of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  the cost will be further reduced to less than 0.5c a litre or 2c a gallon in the life of this Parliament. The expected cost in 1977-78 is $ 10m; in 1978-79 it will be $31m; and after that, in 1979-80, it will be about $50m a year, naturally rising as the use of fuel increases in rural Australia. Sixty per cent of Australia's primary produce goes to overseas markets but, unfortunately, as has often been said in the chamber not only by myself but also by all honourable senators with any commonsense, primary producers' costs are local. Herein lies the problem. We are competing on a world market but Australia has a very high cost structure. Throughout all the time that producers have been confronted with these difficulties the quality of the product has been maintained, and I might even say that it has been improved. Their productivity has increased, of necessity if for no other reason, yet their net return has become smaller. Many of our primary producers have no control over the sale price of the product and this of course is one of their major problems. They also have no control over their production costs which are built into the system. They cannot look at their product and say: 'Well, it cost me so much to produce this; I allow so much to live on and that is the price that I should receive for it. ' It just does not work that way, unfortunately, at this point in time. 
In 1 978 Australia is still dependent on its rural producers to maintain its balance of payments. Last year 45 per cent of our foreign exchange was received from the sale of our primary produce overseas. What is more important, approximately 250,000 people, 4 per cent of the nation 's work force, produced that wealth. Surely this should be considered when we think of the tremendous effort that these people are making towards Australia's well-being and our balance of payments situation. Last year a mere 4 per cent of the nation 's work force produced almost half of our foreign exchange revenue. Our rural producers certainly are not getting a proper return for their labour or for their products. It is no news to anybody that our growth in mineral exports will lessen significantly this year because of the general downturn right around the world in the industrial countries. Already my Premier from the State of Queensland and the Premier of Western Australia- the States that have a tremendous amount to do with the export of our mineral products- as well as the Deputy Prime Minister have been overseas trying to hold the line so that our exports are not reduced. But blind Freddy and his dog, as the saying goes, would have to realise that we will not markedly increase our exports in minerals or indeed our industrial products this year. Our primary producers are going to bear the brunt of this. In addition, they will continue to sell their produce and earn a great part of our foreign exchange revenue. 
The rural industries must sustain our international cash flows and of course our resultant high standard of living. All that the rural producers ask for is a share in the prosperity that this nation experiences. Food costs to the consumer are high. They are a lot higher than what it costs to produce them. The producer receives only a very small percentage of that cost. As I indicated earlier, unfortunately what he receives bears no relationship to the cost to produce those goods. 
This Bill has no effect on fuel costs in metropolitan areas or in any places where the freight differential at this point in time does not exceed the 4c a gallon. The Bill does not take anything from one section so as to give to another. As has been mentioned by previous speakers, this scheme will help the decentralisation policy. It will assist in the movement of people away from the large metropolises into the country areas. Of necessity the trend in agriculture in the last 25 years has been towards mechanisation and intensification. This has meant an increased dependence on fuel. Thus the inbuilt costs once again have gone up, and producers have had no control over that increase. As we have said, by this legislation the Government is seeking to give producers some parity with the price of certain fuel paid by people living on the seaboard of Australia. Rural producers produce a large bulk of our export earnings, yet they are being penalised because of their geographical location. So the Government must assist decentralisation. It must assist producers. This legislation is an incentive. Fuel is a basic requirement of producers. They have to get their products to the market. Their stores and their goods have to be delivered to them. Their transport costs are all important. Undoubtedly this legislation is going to help to hold the line in respect of transport costs because it must be apparent to anybody who uses any common sense at all that one of the basic problems that producers have in getting their products to the market, whether it be internal or overseas, is the transport costs. 
It has been said previously that the mining industry was being greatly assisted with fuel equalisation. That is right. Nobody is questioning that. But at this point in time with the price of minerals such as copper particularly and lead being so low it does have a great effect on the mining industry whose transport costs also are high. There are only a few of the large mining companies that are making massive profits. There are the smaller miners such as the copper gougers and the tin scratchers who also are affected rather dramatically by high transport costs. If we can do anything to reduce their costs and thus help to maintain and sustain our mining industry, something will be achieved towards the betterment of our country. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to support this legislation. It will help directly the primary producer. It will help directly all those people who live in rural Australia. It will help the mining industry- the small and the big companies- and the primary producers with their transport costs. In addition, as we become a mobile nation more and more people are seeking to see Australia first- to see Queensland first, we hope, but at least to see internal Australia. A lot of people have cars and caravans. Reduced fuel prices in remote areas will be an inducement for them to travel around Australia before they go overseas. This legislation will reduce their holiday costs. So it gives me great pleasure to support this legislation. I commend it to the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and refer to the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill, which was passed last night in this chamber. I ask: When can the recipients of the proposed freight subsidy expect to receive those benefits? 
-I rise to support the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill and the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill. We are talking about a Government guarantee for 80 per cent of the price of a Boeing 727-200 for Ansett Airlines of Australia and a Boeing 747 for Qantas Airways Limited. Airlines have to spend a tremendous amount of money. They have to do a lot of forward planning and a lot of high technology is involved, as honourable senators could imagine. Sometimes aircraft are bought off the drawing board. Such is the technology and the price involved. To give honourable senators an idea, the guarantee for 80 per cent of the cost of the Boeing 727-200 series involves $US 10.3m and the sum involved in the purchase of the Boeing 747 is $US80m. Because of this vast price and the need for commonality we find that our airlines get locked into a situation. They start off with one type of equipment and are locked into having to continue to use that one type irrespective of whether better equipment comes along that is more advanced, more efficient and so on. That is the state in which the airlines of the world find themselves today, not least of all our Australian airlines. 
The Boeing 747 is a success, almost by accident. The United States of America Defence Department called tenders for the supply of a large transport aircraft. Most of the major companies submitted plans and specifications and Boeing was not the successful tenderer, but Boeing was quite happy with its design and decided to produce it in a passenger configuration form. Thus the 747 aircraft was born, which is one of the major success stories in the airline industry today. Modifications have been made to this aircraft but once again, as I have indicated, Qantas finds itself locked in. I am speaking particularly of the engines that can be provided. 
The main engines provided are the Pratt and Whitney JT9D, the General Electrics CF6 and the Rolls-Royce RB2 1 1. Some of our Qantas aircraft are equipped with a modified JT9D engine that is known as the 7F and some further JT9D engines are being so modified. It is interesting to note that British Airways flies these aircraft with Pratt and Whitney engines and that lately it has opted for the RB2 1 1 on its 747 aircraft. That company has been flying these aircraft since May 1977. I understand that it is quite pleased with the results. The Rolls-Royce RB21 1-524B is an engine which produces 50,000 lb of thrust, lt is interesting to note that on 1 November 1976 a Boeing 747 aircraft powered by this engine took off at a weight of 381,108 kilograms and climbed to 2,000 metres in 6 minutes 33 seconds, setting an all-time weight-to-altitude record. 
This weight lifting performance, combined with the lower cruise fuel consumption of the RB2 1 1 , gives the 236 version of the 747 aircraft a range of some 1,290 kilometres in excess of the 136 series. This enables faster and more economical services to be provided. One-stop flights by British Airways between London and the west coast of Australia are now possible, as are twostop flights to the east coast of Australia. There is a flight time of 23 hours between London and Melbourne. This is made possible by being in a position to make full use of new technology. The RB211 equipped aircraft cruises at approximately mach 0.84, which is about 18.4 kilometres per hour faster than the earlier version. Thus it has higher profitability, a better fuel consumption and a longer range. It can operate with a full passenger load over an extremely long range- probably longer than any other passenger aircraft in service today. 
The RB21 1-524 series is a heavier engine and obviously suffers some weight penalty due to its greater structural rigidity, but fortunately the stiffer casings keep the engine ducts circular. Honourable senators might recall that when the 747 aircraft first went into service equipped with the JT9D engine there was a good deal of trouble with warping of the engine ducts and quite a deal of down time was experienced. The RB211 has overcome that problem. It is estimated that fuel consumption for this engine is only about 1.5 per cent worse after 4,000 hours of operation compared with 3 per cent to 4 per cent worse for its other two competitors. Its added toughness also gives it a better maintenance record. It is estimated that only 12 RB2 1 ls are removed after every one million flights due to damage caused by the ingestion of foreign objects, such as birds, compared with an average of 60 for its two other competitors. 
As I have said, it is unfortunate that because of the high expense of new technology we get locked into the situation in which we must have commonality. I think it would do the Government quite well to look at this problem, especially considering the cost recovery program, air navigation charges, fuel tax and so on. It must be realised that aviation benefits not only those who fly but also the whole of the community in that people, goods, and mail are able to be transported much faster and a better service is offered to the country as a whole. I think the Government shouldlook at its cost recovery program and try to alleviate some of the burden which is on the airlines today so that they are able to look more practicably at their viability and thus be able to look towards using the new technology. 
The Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill seeks an appropriation for the purchase of additional Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. The Boeing 727 would have to be one of the most successful of all the commercial airliners in history. Almost on the tenth anniversary of its introduction into the civil airline fleet Air Canada ordered five further 727s to bring the total number of orders and deliveries to 1,500. But, as with the 747s with the Pratt and Whitney engine, we seem to be locked in on the Boeing 727s at a time- I find myself in agreement with  Senator Gietzelt  on this matter- when we should be looking at the newer wide-bodied aircraft. It is significant that the new wide-bodied aircraft have the new technology with the high bypass turbo fan engines. In view of the greater passenger load of the wide-bodied aircraft and the fact that less fuel is required to carry that passenger load it makes sense to use them, especially in a country which very shortly will be importing 50 per cent of its fuel requirements and which by about 1985 will be importing about 70 per cent of its fuel requirements. We as a country have to take notice of every aspect of fuel saving. 
-Probably not. I will come to that in a minute. We also have to worry about traffic density, especially in the Sydney area. If one aircraft can do the work of two aircraft it makes sense to opt for the larger aircraft. I realise that the Australian InterScan system has been adopted for air traffic control in terminal areas. This system will help with the aircraft traffic density problems. As against the old instrument landing system, aircraft will not have to use direct flight paths; they will be able to use circular paths, at the same time helping the noise abatement programs. 
At the present time our airlines arelooking at such options as the DC 10, the L101 1, which is also known as the TriStar, and the A300 Air Bus. Eastern Airlines of America has just taken a major decision to purchase the A300. It has supplied some surprising figures. To illustrate the A300s fuel economy advantage, Eastern Airlines compared the fuel consumption of its existing fleet of Boeing 727-100 series and 727-200 series aircraft with the fuel consumption of the A300, which is intended to replace the smaller jet. The airline calculated that it flew 9.9 billion available seat miles in 1977 and found that the 727 jets consumed 315.3 million gallons of jet fuel. The A300s, flying the same volume of available seat miles, would have consumed 206.1 million gallons of jet fuel. This would have represented a saving of 109.2 million gallons or 34.6 per cent in fuel consumption. Based on an average fuel price of $US35.8c per gallon in 1977 the saving to Eastern Airlines would have totalled $US40m. As half the fuel would have had to be importedAmerica is in a similar situation to Australia- the potential saving in imports was $20m, which is a figure which will grow rapidly in the years to come. Eastern Airlines also flies the L1011 or Lockheed TriStar, which is another alternative, but the problem with the TriStar is that it was found that it was optimised for ranges up to 1,400 nautical miles. The TriStar is proving to be a fine aircraft for longer routes but it simply does not yield its best economics on the American eastern seaboard, where there is an average sector of 500 nautical miles, which is what we would be looking at for the SydneyBrisbaneMelbourne route. It is on these shorter runs that the A300 twin really comes into its own. I am using that aircraft as an example because it is the only wide-bodied twin available on the market with the new technology engines. Some of the American companies are considering building new twins. 
The third engine was the product of the modest thrusts expected from the big-fan engines in the early days of the tri-jet program. As I said, it is only these large, wide-bodied aircraft that are able to take full advantage of the large highbypass ratio turbo fans. They are able to have a larger volume of air go through them, whilst having a lower exhaust velocity. This, quite basically, means that they get a higher thrust with a lot less noise and pollution. When we think of the lower noise, it is significant that the CF-6 engine that the A300 uses could meet all our curfew requirements. Its noise footprint is approximately the same as that of the Lockheed Electra, and I understand that the A300 is capable of lifting a full load of freight without removing any seats from the cabin. An aircraft such as this makes a lot of sense for our internal airlines, when one considers that, without a curfew applying, when the last passengers have been carried- at about 9.30 or 10 o'clock at night under normal operationsthe pilots, with their sense of responsibility, would be able to work through the night, perhaps having their cup of tea while the plane was being loaded with freight; alternatively, another crew could take over. The plane could then fly through the night distributing freight without curfew worries, right round the main airports of Australia. So this type of aircraft does indeed make sense. 
The Boeing 727 has been stretched and reengined a couple of times. Recognising the problems with the JT8D engine which is provided on the Boeing 727, a lot of work on them has been done. It is not a high-bypass ratio engine. It is, as most people realise, a very noisy engine. With this in mind, the 209 series of the JT8D was developed. Unfortunately, it does not make sense to put these three engines on the present 200 series Boeing 727. It would need to go on a much larger aircraft or, as the McDonnell Douglas company is considering, a new aircraft. The DC9-80 series, capable of seating up to 140 passengers, could be powered quite adequately with two JT8D 209-modified engines. Of course, that aircraft is just not available yet, although I believe our companies are looking at that particular aircraft as a standard until in the 1980s something better comes along. I understand that contrary to popular opinion those aircraft that are on the drawing board will not be available until approximately 1984-85. So I believe that our internal airlines do have to start looking at the current supply of wide-bodied jets. 
As I said, the use of the A300, for example, on the Melbourne-Brisbane, Melbourne-Sydney, Sydney-Brisbane run, makes quite a lot of sense. Melbourne-Brisbane is a distance of 1,376 kilometres. Using a very high seating density arrangement for both aircraft, and recognising that we would probably not operate them under those conditions- but the seating ratio would be the same- from Melbourne to Brisbane, an A300 with 292 seats would use 11,400 kilograms of fuel. That works out at 39 kilograms per seat. 
The Boeing 727, with 184 seats, would use 9,990 kilograms, or 54.3 kilograms per seat. 
For Sydney-Brisbane or Melbourne-Sydney, of approximately the same distance, some 700 kilometres, the A300, with 292 seats, would use 7,000 kilograms of fuel, or 25 per seat. The Boeing 727-200 series, with 184 seats, would use 6, 100 kilograms, or 35 per seat. That is with very high density seating; there would be a higher ratio of kilograms of fuel per seat, looking at the usual Australian configuration. On those figures, even if we put them on high density traffic routes, it would make sense not only economy and fuelwise, but also from the point of view of traffic density, especially in the Sydney airport area. If I could conclude by referring to one last hobby horse of anybody who comes from Queensland, the Brisbane airport - 
I am sorry,  Senator. You  will have to bear with me. You got all you wanted at Launceston. Much has been said concerning the quite inadequate facilities of the Brisbane airport from an international, domestic and tourist point of view. As everybody knows, we are using the old igloos that were put up during World War II. 
I want to discuss it, however, more from an operational point of view. An incident that occurred on 15 February 1978 will help to illustrate precisely what I mean. A Boeing 727 had a systems A hydraulic failure after take-off at Brisbane airport. It could not retract all its flaps and slats, or undercarriage. Thus, as they say in the game, it was too dirty- there was too much equipment hanging out. It could not go onto Sydney because of the fuel problem- with all that extra drag, so it obviously had to get back into Brisbane. It could not do so, for the simple reason that on the main runway, 04-22, there was a high cross wind component on that day. With a systems A hydraulic failure the pilot has the use of only half the rudder. The maximum cross wind component permissible under these conditions was 1 9 knots- 25 knots normal- which was being exceeded consistently. 
The pilot circled Brisbane for a considerable time hoping that the wind would drop sufficiently for him to get in. It obviously made sense that if he were going to get in anywhere it should be where the engineers were based. Unfortunately, the wind did not drop. There is a cross runway at the Brisbane airport, but because of length and pavement restrictions it would take only an aircraft up to Fokker Friendship size. 
The pilot tried to get in to Amberley, but unfortunately there was a storm over that airport. Eventually he got into Coolangatta. There are no aircraft tugs at that airport and there was concern that the aircraft might be locked in position on the runway: with systems A hydraulic out, the pilot did not have nose-wheel steering. Fortunately, the nost wheel pivoted quite well and the pilot was able to turn the aircraft just by using his wheel brakes. This is one of the troubles with which we are faced. 
It is quite significant that the new plan for the Brisbane airport alters the main runway, 02-20, sufficiently to obviate aircraft taking off over the main city area. This means that building restrictions will no longer have to be imposed lest an aircraft lose power on one engine after take-off. It will also mean that the curfew, while we are still using the current aircraft types, would not have to be as severe. 
Also, there is a plan for a runway, 16-34, which has the same basic alignment as the main runway as Sydney airport, which provides for use when the south-easterlies are blowing. Herein lies the problem; most of the major airports on the eastern coast of Australia do allow for the south-easterly wind- all except our main airport in Brisbane which, I repeat, is the third largest international airport in Australia. From an operational point of view, it just cannot be used all the time. I recall that one night, one of the airlines stopped all jet traffic because of cross wind there, which was causing compressor stall. It was considered unsafe to continue jet operations that night so that airline closed its jet operations for the night. 
It is an indictment of our transport system within Australia that such a thing could happen. As I said, it involved our third major international airport, an airport which I am quite sure would get increasing international use if better facilities were provided. I can do no less than support all my colleagues in Queensland as they seek to have this matter rectified. It is evident in the Governor-General's Speech, wherein he outlines the Government's policy, that this will be rectified. After promises for at least 20 years, it cannot come too soon. 
It was quite significant, and, I guess a compliment to the Australian airline system, that when that particular aircraft was circling the Brisbane airport and waiting to get into the airport, or, as it happened, to go on to Coolangatta, the major concern of the passengers was whether they would be able to make their connections, such is the competence of our airlines and our aircrews. I think it is a compliment to our domestic airline system that that is all the passengers were concerned about in such a situation. It gives me pleasure to support both Bills. 
I think it is rather unfortunate that we are having to waste the time of the Senate today with this discussion of a matter of public importance, namely: 
The failure of the Government to honour their expressed obligations to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
One thing that should have come out of all the discussions over the last few weeks is that the Commonwealth Government has very limited powers to act in this area. The referendum of 1967 changed section 51 (xxvi) of the Constitution. The Government then had the power to legislate for the welfare of the Aboriginal people. It has become quite clear that to legislate to do anything other than what we set out in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Bill which was passed by this Parliament is just not possible. If the Government wants to do anything else years of litigation will be involved. It will do nobody- the State Government, the Federal Government and the Aboriginal people themselves- any good. The Aboriginal people are the meat in this sandwich. We know that Federal Ministers have been to Queensland to discuss this matter. We will not know of the arrangements arrived at until legislation is introduced into the Queensland Parliament next week. The discussion of this matter of public importance is quite premature as the arrangements which will be made will possibly cover the problems that honourable senators are talking about here today. 
The history of the conflict has been given. Very briefly, it stems from a resolution of the Queensland Synod of the Uniting Church in Australia last year. The Church indicated to the Honourable Charles Porter that it was willing to discuss government administration of these two mission stations. Since then Professor Rollie Busch has made it quite clear where he and the Uniting Church stand on this issue. I quote from one of his Press releases: 
Since this controversy first began some weeks ago the Queensland Synod has stood consistently for the right of the peoples of Aurukun and Mornington Island to manage their own affairs, and to have a voice in determining their own future. From this position we have never deviated, refusing to be drawn into irrelevant discussions about the merits of State versus Federal control. The crucial issue is still the same- the right of Aboriginal people to manage their own affairs. 
I think in all these debates we should never lose sight of that facet- the right of Aboriginal people to manage their own affairs. We realise that these debates are used to cast a lot of aspersions, mud if one likes, at the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Government. Unfortunately, the fundamental blunder in this whole affair was made by the Honourable Charles Porter in announcing the takeover without any reference to or consultation with the Uniting Church. The whole problem can be sheeted home to that fact. As I said in the speech on the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities Self-Management) Bill 1978 the tragedy of tragedies is that the whole thing could have been averted if there had been proper consultation. The Honourable Charles Porter saw fit to announce a takeover, a coup if one likes, and has not to this point given any justification for his having done so. 
As I said, we are not aware of the arrangements which have been made. It is quite premature to discuss an MPI of this nature today. The opportunity has been taken once again to denigrate the Queensland Government, the 
Queensland Premier and the Aboriginal legislation. I think that people ought to be aware of the fact that the Aborigines in Queensland have, over a long period, had a continuing input into Queensland Acts concerning Aboriginals. We hear mainly from southern media and southern politicians about this regressive legislation in Queensland. From the rot we hear, one would think Queensland was a police state. There is no difference between travelling from Brisbane to Cairns or Mount Isa or Longreach and travelling from Sydney to Melbourne. So much rot is talked about Queensland. We are possibly one of the most progressive States in the Commonwealth, along with Western Australia. 

 Senator Keeffe, the knocker from north Queensland, supposedly a representative of that area- every time he speaks he attacks Queensland- has brought up this unnecessary MPI. The Queensland Aboriginal Acts have had a lot of input into them by Queensland Aboriginal and Island people for some time. 
I point out that at present three commissioners are reporting to the Queensland Cabinet on the redrafting of the Queensland Aboriginal Acts. They are the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Advisory Council, the  Chairman  of the Islanders Advisory Council and a representative of the South Pacific Islanders Council. The Queensland Cabinet has given assurances that it will legislate on the recommendations of this Commission. 
The unfortunate part of this incident is that the Aboriginal people have been made a political football. A sorry and sordid treatment is being handed out to these people at present. This country should have a conscience about the past treatment, the past atrocities and the past injustices that have been perpetrated on this race of people. It is not a history of which we can be proud. Unfortunately, as a balm to our troubled conscience, we have thought that the best thing to do is to hand out money right, left and centre. We cannot buy a person's respectability or legislate to give him dignity. The unfortunate part is that if there is any discrimination in Queensland it is against the white people in the lower socioeconomic groups. What has made the situation worse is a white backlash has been fermentingsomething that was never intended. It is something that is present. It is something that we want least of all. The situation has been made worse by using these people as a political football.  Senator Keeffe  was the first to start using these people as a political football and politicising their troubles. That fact has been known throughout Queensland for some considerable time. 
-Do I have to withdraw? 
Out of respect to you,  Mr President,  I withdraw that statement. In these last two weeks, unfortunately, there has been a parade of people on both sides of this argument carting these Aboriginal people around Australia to put up their respective arguments. I find it very degrading. They are a fine race of people. At present they are a bewildered people, as I said before, seeking to find their place in our society. To support some particular argument of either side they have been hawked around Australia almost as exhibitions. 
I conclude by saying that the outcome of this undignified and at times belligerent posturing by both the Federal and Queensland Governments and the blatant grandstanding by political opportunists has no doubt satisfied some sort of honour, but the dismay and the limited trust of the bewildered people of the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities are being reinforced daily by the posturing of people such as those who seek to make mileage out of the unfortunate circumstances in which our indigenous people find themselves in our 20th century civilisation. It will take a lot of understanding and genuine action to retrieve the situation and to assist these people in their assimilation into our society. We all owe it to these people to help to keep this problem out of the political arena, to work to understand the peculiar difficulties confronting them and enable them to play with dignity a positive role in our community. 
I support the Government on these two Bills, the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978 and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978. After hearing some of the speakers from the Opposition I think it would have been interesting to have been a member of a chamber such as this when the first Stone Age man carved out the wheel. It would have been more interesting to have been here when the first motor car or the internal combustion engine were invented. 
-Or indeed the locomotive, or electricity. It would have been interesting to listen to all the concern that would have been voiced at that time. Nobody in his right mind would have realised that the motor car, the wheel, the locomotive or electricity would have taken such a toll. Civilisation has never made an advance in its history without there being commensurate risks. The thing that possibly distinguishes us from the animals is that we are able to accept those risks and, what is more, to overcome them, so that any new advance or new technology can be used for the benefit of mankind. 

 Senator O 'Byrne said that everything should be foolproof. I have been a member of this chamber for two or three years, and I guess that if this chamber were a bit more foolproof than it is at present we would probably have more con.stuctive debate and we would get on with the legislation a lot sooner. He also mentioned that Australian society will be split in two on this matter. I would say that the ratio is probably at least 90 per cent in favour of uranium mining and probably a lot less than 10 per cent against. As he mentioned, a lot of propaganda has been put out, but it is propaganda from a minority of people, who seem to be Jeremiahs or prophets of doom. They are concerned not so much about the advancement of civilisation as the holding back of any advancement. So we get a lot of untruths, half truths, mis-truths and everything but the truth about the nuclear fuel cycle. 
We have heard  Senator O'Byrne  mention the problems of radioactivity around the mines. I suggest that the ore that we are going to mine is already in the ground. What are we going to do to it around the mines that will make it any worse? We have been living in these areas, we have been walking around them and over them, we have been digging into them, and nobody has been the worse off for centuries. So it is quite misleading to start talking about the excess radioactivity around the mines. At one stage he quoted from the  Four Corners  television program. Knowing  Four Corners  penchant for objectivity I hope that I never reach the stage where I have to use  Four Corners  as my authority in any speech that I make in this chamber. Mention was made of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and I suppose we all share in the horror of that. I have said this before and I am afraid I will have to say it again as the message does not seem to have filtered through: It is the war that is horrific. Once a person dies, he is dead. It does not matter whether he is shot, bayonetted, blown to pieces or burnt. Once a person dies, he is dead. It is the war that is horrific. Leaders of nations and we as governments of nations should spend our time working against the proliferation of war. 
The nuclear power cycle probably has a better track record than any industry when it comes to accidents- another cause of concern to the prophets of doom on the benches opposite. To my knowledge there has not been one death in the nuclear power cycle attributable to the nuclear reactor part of the nuclear power generation cycle. That speaks well for the nuclear power cycle. Because it is a new power and because of the emotional outbursts, possibly from Hiroshima and Nagasaki, we have been able to take commensurate safeguards all the way down the line, and it has a track record that is second to none. For this reason alone, we should be looking more seriously towards further use of nuclear power. 
Terrorism was also mentioned, and the fact that somehow somebody might be able to get hold of some radioactive waste and use it to hold a nation to ransom. I have touched on this subject in previous speeches. We hear the same arguments ad nauseum from honourable senators opposite and I guess we have to use the same arguments for rebuttal, but I hope that at some time in the future they might be able to see the truth of this matter. As I have said before, it would be far easier for terrorists to get hold of some germ such at botulism or cholera and put it into a city's water supply. They could destroy the population and take over the city intact if they so desired. Instead we hear all the ballyhoo about terrorists maybe getting hold of some radioactive material and holding a nation to ransom. Do honourable senators think that the terrorists could get hold of it and make an atomic bomb, considering the thousands of scientists that were used in project Manhattan to make the first atomic bomb? To think that terrorists could do that sort of thing overnight is beyond belief. 
The first Bill, the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, flies in the face of recommendations from the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, but the Government has decided to use this as an instrument by which the Atomic Energy Commission can buy into the Ranger project and thus we can keep faith with the Memorandums of Understanding that were laid down by the Whitlam Government. As they were laid down by the Whitlam Government one would not expect to hear the tirades that we have heard from honourable senators opposite. Let me remind them that they know as much about business as they know about atomic energy. As I recall- we are bound by this- the Australian Goverment is going to put in 72 per cent of the capital and is only going to receive 50 per cent of the net profits. If that shows any business acumen, it beats me. As far as I am concerned, it is beyond belief. 
One thing that concerns me about this package is that we are setting up too many departments. As  Senator Thomas  mentioned, a few of us have been to the Northern Territory to look at the uranium province and to talk to the people there. One finds that the mining companies are not quite sure with whom they are dealing at any particular time. That was the situation previously. Unfortunately the passing of the legislation will not make the situation any better. The Government intends to appoint a scientific adviser. The National Parks and Wildlife Service will be involved. The people there will not have any one person to whom they can turn. I can see a lot of problems in this, and I think that the Government should pay attention to it in the future so that the process can be speeded up, so that uranium mining can be started and, more importantly, so that the companies can have one person in the Government with whom they can deal when they have problems to get them tidied up. 
We must exercise some speed with this legislation. We have been criticised for rushing into it. If we are rushing into uranium mining I would hate to see us really stalling on any particular subject. As is well known, the mining companies have carried out a lot of exploratory work there and are now waiting for us to play our part so that they can get into operation. If they do not begin operating in the dry season, as people who have been there and as those who come from the Territory know, they will literally lose 12 months. I believe that our stockpile will run out before they will be producing yellowcake. We are not going to be able to meet existing contracts. We have to show some speed and in fairness to those people who have invested a lot of money up there we must allow them to get going. 
In addition, there are many contracting companies in the Territory, and as the reconstruction of Darwin is winding down they are in a good position to be able to tender for contracts and help get site and mine construction off the ground. If we stall for much longer they will leave the Territory and it will be so much harder for the mining companies. The second Bill, the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill, is mainly a machinery Bill which will allow us, when the mines commence, to lay down certain regulations under which the rnining operations can take place and which will allow for safeguards, for the men working there and those who would be involved down the line in transport and other ancillaries. 
When all is said and done a uranium mine is just another mine. I wish a lot of people would realise this. With all the legislation that we are bringing in to deal with the uranium package, one would think that we were embarking on something that is completely new, something that is dangerous and something that the whole world should be wary of. All we are doing is opening up two, three, maybe four mines. A uranium mine is just another mine. Its track record is far better than normal mining operations. I have explained before, but I guess I will have to do it again, that there were problems in underground uranium mining. For many years on the Continent uranium was mined along with lead. Because of the uranium there were releases of radon gas and miners died from the results of what they called a choking disease, which turned out to be lung cancer. But many thousands more have died from black lung contracted in the coal mines for the same reason of lack of adequate ventilation. When proper ventilation was provided the health of the miners improved dramatically. The mines that we have had in 
Australia to this time have been open cut mines and the mines that are envisaged in the Northern Territory in the immediate and near future will be open cut mines also. The radon gas will be so insignificant that it will not be able to be measured. The mines there will be ordinary, hard rock open cut mines, nothing more and nothing less, and no more and no less dangerous than any other mine of a similar operation. 
I think governments can be too sensitive to minority opinions, and I think we are being too sensitive in this particular area. As I said, we are laying down too many regulations, all because of our sensitivity to minority opinions. Unfortunately the minority in our society makes a lot more noise than its degree of support would indicate it is capable of. In the speech that I made on 18 August last year on the second Fox report I quoted the problems of decreasing fossil fuel reserves and our increasing demand for energy. I will not go into that at this time but I advise any honourable senators who are interested to look at the situation in which we will find ourselves in the near future. Even if we did find massive amounts of crude oil in the near future, just because we have found it does not mean that we must use it up wantonly. Blind Freddie and his dog would know that we will run out of it some time in the future, probably sooner than we would like or anticipate. 
As I have said this is but a machinery Bill to provide safeguards for the mining of uranium. It will also provide safeguards for anything else that we might want to do with uranium in the future. I suggest that the Government should look very quickly at the possibility of undertaking our own treatment, our own conversion to uranium hexafluoride, our own enrichment, our own fuel fabrication and even our own fuel processing. If safeguards worry the Opposition so much, if we carried out all those parts of the whole process, we would certainly be able to tie up all the safeguards. At the present time we export yellowcake. Firstly, it has to go either to the United States of America or Great Britain where it is converted into a gaseous form known as uranium hexafluoride. It is no worse than any other gas. It is no problem other than that it is very corrosive, but then again we have lots of corrosive substances being carried around this country in stainless steel rail and road tankers. From that stage the main method of enrichment at present is by diffusion. This is done mainly in America where there are massive factories. 
To give the Senate an idea of the amount of power involved to establish diffusion enrichment plant in Australia, of the type operating in 
America now, such is the amount of power used that it would require electricity generation of greater capacity than all the power generation in Queensland today. There is the other method, of course, of using the centrifuge process. In this method one centrifuge can be used in which the hexafluoride is put through a million times or a million centrifuges can be used and the hexafluoride put through once. It does not quite need the amount of power used in the diffusion process. What we must do is process the hexafluoride so that the U-235 which is fissionable material found in its natural state in yellowcake at around .7 per cent or, to be more precise 7202 per cent can be enriched up to 3 per cent, to enable fission to take place. We are looking at a weight difference of only three neutrons in each atom. Yet it must be done and that is why we must have these very complex processes. I believe that work is being done- our own Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights may be working on this also- whereby a laser process is used. I understand that that is still very much in the experimental stage. I seriously suggest that not only should we consider processing the material into hexafluoride in Australia but also that we should look at the enrichment program which would enable us to get the commercial trade off and to provide more safeguards. 
We should also be looking at fuel fabrication which is also a profitable process. Once again this would give us safeguards. We would be controlling the whole process from the mine to the nuclear reactor. Then, we could be looking at reprocessing and we would have the cycle complete. Much has been said about reprocessing and the use of plutonium. The Opposition has stated that it is a very dangerous substance. Plutonium is an alpha emitter and a cigarette paper will protect anybody from the radiation effects of plutonium. We hear such inane remarks about how a handful of it would destroy every person in the world. How would we distribute a handful of plutonium around the world and, what is more, with all the bomb tests that have been done, it is estimated that there are between 7 tonnes and 9 tonnes in the atmosphere already. So much for this very dangerous toxic substance plutonium. For a bomb to be made out of plutonium it requires almost pure plutonium 239 and the plutonium that comes out of the power reactors is not pure plutonium 239, it has other impurities in it such as plutonium 240 and plutonium 241. It is not bomb-grade plutonium. It is possible, probably under extreme difficulties, to make a bomb out of that material. It is debatable whether it would explode. I think one such bomb has been exploded but massive technology is needed to do that. 
Reactor grade plutonium is gained by using the Purex method of reprocessing. We now have a process known as the Civex method which is presently being worked on and considered by the International Fuel Cycle Evaluation Committee. The plutonium produced from this method cannot be used in a bomb. What is more, it is deliberately kept impure. Strontium and caesium are retained in the substance. Any terrorist who gets hold of it does not live for too long. It is deliberately kept impure so that it can kill in case the wrong people get hold of it. Nonetheless, it is still able to be used in fast breeders. 
We are looking at a process whereby we can reprocess this material. It cannot be used in bombs and it will be unsafe for terrorists if they get hold of it. However, it can be used in fast breeders. Until we reach a situation where something better comes along- I, like everybody else, hope that something better comes along- we will have fast breeders. In talking about fast breeders we are looking at thousands of years of energy. I certainly have no hang-ups about using fast breeders for power generation. 
I conclude by referring briefly to one point. A few years ago the French mined some of their uranium from Gabon in Africa. They found that the uranium was not acting as it should in the nuclear reactor. They could not work out why. As I have said, because of the natural radioactive decay process the amount of U-235 found in the mother material is 0.7202 per cent. That is upgraded to 3 per cent to enable fission to take place. When the French scientists started to do their homework they found that the amount of U-235 in the uranium being mined was from 0.7101 per cent down to as little as 0.42 per cent. This, of course, caused them a great deal of concern. They were not quite sure what had happened. 
From one of those pieces of scientific detection which come along every so often and which make interesting reading the French scientists were able to determine that between 1 .7 and 1 .9 billion years ago we had natural reactors. It just goes to prove I suppose that there is nothing new under the sun. We have patted ourselves on the back because of our great introduction into the nuclear fuel cycle, but we had natural reactors, as I have said, between 1.7 and 1.9 billion years ago. What is more, the reactors operated in the natural environment for 1 50,000 years. The reactors were formed because the right amount of natural U-235 was available at the time. 
Sufficient water crystals were in surrounding materials to act as a moderator. Thus, a chain reaction took place. Natural reactors were operating here on Mother Earth for 1 50,000 years without any help from the Government side and without any opposition from the other side of the Senate. The waste products are in the ground and they have not worried anybody all this time. It is just now when the homework is done because it is found that the uranium being mined is not up to scratch that it is realised that this earlier process had taken place. We pat ourselves on the back about technology, but Mother Nature beats us to it every time. It gives me great pleasure to support the Bills. 
I rise on the motion for the first reading of this Appropriation Bill to speak briefly about the 
Iwasaki tourist project on the central coast of Queensland. 1 do this because during the adjournment debate on 4 May,  Senator Keeffe  saw fit to mouth the untruths, shall I say, that had been given to him by the society which is seeking supposedly to protect the beach from the Iwasaki development. I am quite sure that the society did that because, although it has been carrying on with its shenanigans over the last few months, it has not been cutting any ice on the central coast. The society has not been able to win any support and the only thing it could do was to try to seek support elsewhere. In doing so it obviously contacted  Senator Keeffe,  who does not know anything about this area. The society got his support, and thus we had his speech in the adjournment debate on the night of 4 May. 
The importance of conservation is being recognised and generally accepted by the community, and that is how it should be. Through the ages, as we became more industrialised and extended our agricultural and mining industries, little thought was given to proper conservation, to the effect of our actions on the environment, to trying to return the land to its original state after such development had taken place. However, I think that the community generally now accepts the need for conservation, as do all developers and miners. Unfortunately, the conservation movement, which has in it a lot of genuine people, has attracted to its banner just about every sort of do-gooder-cum-knocker that one could think of. The discontented malcontents, the dissatisfied grumblers and the disappointed grouches all use the movement for their own ends. That does not do the cause of conservation any good and generally gets people 's backs up. Nevertheless, that is the situation as we see it. Those people are using the banner of conservation literally to bash anything new in any area. That is what has happened on the central coast of Queensland in regard to the Iwasaki tourist development. 
We are part of our environment. We must use it, not abuse it. The environment is not stable, no matter what we might think. It is changing continually. Some of the great beauty spots of the world have been created by the weathering of continual storms or the running rivers and so on. Our environment is not stable. We should be able to change it without necessarily destroying or abusing it. If we took the ideas of some of" the conservationists' to their ultimate, we would probably end up back in the caves. But when we got there we would find that we could not light a camp fire because it would pollute the atmosphere. We have to live within a changing environment. We have to accept that our environment can be fragile and that we have to act responsibly towards it. In that respect, we must re-think our policies towards national parks. They should not necessarily become a wilderness. I believe that Australia is probably the only country in the world which has decided that national parks should be shut up and put away. In other countries quite often national parks are freehold areas, obviously with certain restrictions on them, which are used for agriculture and are properly husbanded. They are not necessarily allowed to become a wilderness. Kenneth Dobell said: 
Our aim is that the National Park shall afford to those who live in it a chance to make a living in a competitive world, and to those who visit it the solace of natural beauty. 
In the Iwasaki project I think that probably for the first time in Australia we have a tightly controlled projected resort development which is paying due recognition to the flora and fauna in the area so that they will be available to those who use and visit the resort and to those who visit the area. The natural flora and fauna will be available for them to enjoy. 
In his speech  Senator Keeffe  said much about the land in the area being choice land. Some of it is suitable for grazing; a lot of it is swamp, affectionately known as Boglands. There are mangrove swamps and rain forests. It is hardly choice land. It is recognised that Iwasaki paid a little in excess of $3,000 an acre, I think, for his land.  Senator Keeffe  said that some land in the area was available for $100,000 an acre. Shortly after that he mentioned $ 150,000 an acre. 
It is on the central coast of Queensland.  Senator Keeffe  's lack of knowledge about land valuations in the area was apparent, and he became more and more confused as the night went on. I think that at present the top price for a developed block, one of the choice sites, would be about $ 1 1,000. If there were four of those blocks to the acre the developed price would be about $44,000 an acre. Only last Saturday a number of blocks put up for ballot were passed in because they did not reach the reserve price of $5,000. 

 Senator Keeffe mentioned in his previous speech and also tonight by interjection that this is one of the major fish breeding areas of the region. He referred to the Boglands area and said that it is a breeding area for the fishing and prawning industries and a marine nursery, producing 70 per cent of the catch of the Yeppoonbased fishing industry. I am quite a novice when it comes to fishing but I did not know that the fish caught in salt water estuaries were bred in fresh water swamps. I want to bring a little sanity into the debate. Let me refer to a Habitat survey that was commissioned by the group which sought to stop the Iwasaki development. The survey stated: 
The tidal wetlands of Corio Bay support extensive mangrove vegetation on the fringing creeks. The relative area of wetland for Corio Bay and other wetland systems in the region is seen in the following table. 
The following are the areas in square kilometres: South Gladstone 27; North Gladstone 49; Curtis Island 1 10; Lower Fitzroy 440; Keppel Sands 25; Yeppoon 2; Corio Bay 34; Shoalwater Bay 172; Townshend Island 16; making a total of 875 square kilometres. Of the Corio Bay area of 34 square kilometres, 32 are actually in a natural fish habitat. That area is not part of the Iwasaki lease. Only 2 square kilometres are part of the lease and they are in Resort Development A which will be a section for accommodation.  Mr Iwasaki  says that as far as possible that area will be left untouched. So we are looking at 0.23 per cent of the total mangrove area which may be affected. Yet there is a hue and cry raised that the fish breeding areas of the central coast will be destroyed. The following article appeared in the  Capricornian  of 4 May 1978, with reference to  Mr Tom  Nielsen, one of the master fishermen: 
I disagree with the statement that 70 per cent of the prawns caught by the local fleet come from the Corio Bay area',  Mr Nielsen  said. 'In fact the best prawning grounds lately have been further north in the Shoalwater Bay area '. 
I refer again to the Habitat survey, which revealed that a total of 28 sites was investigated by the company that did the survey- 1 9 in Fishing Creek, four in Corio Bay, three in Water Park Creek, and one each in Sandfly and Deep Creeks. In the survey there is not one mention of finding a prawn in that area. Of course, that is not to say that prawns are not there; it is not to say that they are not there at a certain time of the year; but let us look at the matter reasonably. It is obviously not one of the major breeding areas in the region for prawns. Corio Bay is a very shallow bay. Trawlers cannot use it. It is used by local fishermen who have access to some of the creeks at high tide. 
A lot has been said that does not necessarily ring true. The Boglands area that has been referred to by  Senator Keeffe,  who thinks that it is the breeding area for prawns and fish, is part of the resort area but is in Resort Development Area B. Under the Queensland International Tourist Centre Agreement Bill, Schedule F, Appendix 2 sets out the purposes for which the Boglands area and the land around it can be used. It cannot be used for accommodation. It will be developed as an Australian wildlife and botanical park, with agriculture, forestry, landscaping, rural buildings and recreational facilities being provided. There will be no major residential development at all in that area. The point I am trying to make is that it will be a controlled development. It will take cognisance of the natural environment and seek to use it and keep it in its natural form and yet make it available so that the public can enjoy the beauty of the flora and fauna of that area. 

 Senator Keeffe said that employees will be mostly Japanese, and that Austalian workers will do the menial jobs. I do not know how he defines menial jobs but if the honourable senator was referring to the jobs done by thousands of Australians today who work in the tourist and accommodation industry, I say that it is a gross discourtesy to single them out as doing menial jobs compared to the jobs of anybody else in the work force.  Mr Iwasaki  wants to use as many Australians as he possibly can in his development. Obviously he will have some of his top executive staff" overseeing them. The concessions will be let out to Australians by tender. Obviously all the construction will be done by Australian companies. He hopes to use Australians in the work force from around that area. There will be very little live-in residential accommodation for staff until the international hotel is built, and it may then be provided if that is found to be necessary. As I said before,  Senator Keeffe  referred to the Capricorn Coast Protection Council. Certain groups up there are making a noise out of all proportion to the numbers that they can muster. As in any society, when somebody tries to be innovative there is always somebody who wants to knock his ideas. Lord Rothschild touched on this when he said: 
There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain of success, than to introduce a new order of things- because the innovator has for enemies all those who did well under the old conditions- and lukewarm defenders in those who may do well in the new. 
This has always been a problem, as we have found in this chamber when we have been debating something new.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  need I mention nuclear energy, of which you will be well aware? The two main proponents of the opposition to the Iwasaki project are  Mr Harris,  the  President  of the Capricorn Coast Protection Council, and  Mr Vanderheiden. Mr Harris  does not officially represent the Capricornia Master Fishermen's Association.  Mr Vanderheiden  is the secretary of the Capricornia Master Fishermen's Association. He works with  Mr Harris  as a deckhand on a trawler. He does not officially represent the point of view of the Capricornia Master Fishermen's Association. I refer again to the article in the  Capricornian  of 4 May 1978 under the heading 'Fishermen "dismayed" ', which stated: 
A leading  trawlerman  in the Capricorn Coast fleet said yesterday that many fishermen were 'dismayed' by controversial statements made against  Mr Iwasaki  supposedly on behalf of the industry. 

 Mr Tom Nielsen said as far as he could remember, there had been only one meeting of the Capricornia Master Fishermen 's Association in the last six months. 
The statements issued by  Mr Vanderheiden  the association's secretary, were not in agreement with my opinions',  Mr Neilsen  said. 
In a front page story in the  Capricornian.  Mr Vanderheiden  attacked the Chamber of Commerce for  interfering ' in the fishing industry. 
He also criticised the Iwasaki development. 
I disagree with the statement that 70 per cent of the prawns caught by the local fleet come from the Corio Bay area ',  Mr Nielsen  said. 
In fact the best prawning grounds lately have been further north in the Shoalwater Bay area.' 

 Mr Nielsen said it was difficult to know who was leading the industry. 
First  Mr Harris  crusaded for a statutory organisation to protect the fishing industry statewide. Then, with help from  Mr Vanderheiden.  he persuaded local fishermen to withdraw from the Commercial Fishermen's Organisation- the statutory body formed at their request. They re-formed the Capricornia Master Fishermen's Association which seems to have lost the interest of the local fishermen ',  Mr Nielsen  said. 
These are the two gentlemen who are basically against the project. On the one hand they represent the Capricorn Coast Protection Council, they supposedly represent the Capricornia Master Fishermen's Association and they also say that they represent the fruit growers in the area. That has been proved not to be true also. We have a very small number of people making a lot of noise. As I said before, central coast Queenslanders will not wear them at all so they have come to Canberra seeking support from those people who do not know the area at all. 
When one looks at the impositions placed on  Mr Iwasaki  by the Queensland Government in the Queensland International Tourist Centre Agreement Bill one wonders why on earth the man wants to go ahead with the project, so tight are the conditions the State Government has imposed on him. He has to forfeit the beachfront plus 77 hectares of land for a recreation area and a parking area. He has to bring that land up to a standard for use by all the public. The company must provide public facilities and must be responsible for the complete upkeep, conservation and restoration, even in the case of a national disaster such as a cyclone. If we go back to  Senator Keeffe  's figures, he quoted $100,000 to $150,000 an acre for land in that area. On the basis of what  Senator Keeffe  said the land was worth this would work out that  Mr Iwasaki  is making a donation of the order of $35m in real estate to the people of Queensland or of Australia. That is a tremendous thing for  Mr Iwasaki  to do for us, on the basis of  Senator Keeffe  's figures. 
The company must also provide a two-lane access road from the existing Yeppoon-Byfield road to the resort and beachfront. If the company does not meet all the strict requirements the Government will not permit progress to the next stage of development and at the end of the fourth stage, which will be undertaken in 20 years the Government will not renew the lease. As I said before, I do not know why on earth under such tight conditions  Mr Iwasaki  would even want to go on with the project. But he is prepared to spend the money and to take part in controlled development of this area, something which we have never had before in Australia. I say that we should welcome him. I refer now to a letter which  Senator Keeffe  had incorporated in  Hansard.  He is obviously not responsible for the letter- he incorporated it in good faith. The letter is addressed to The Prime Minister, Parliament House, Canberra, and reads. 
Dear  Mr Fraser, 
At a meeting attended by approximately 200 citizens in the Yeppoon Town Hall on the 4th April 1978 to discuss the Iwasaki tourist project in this area, the following motions were tabled and passed by an overwhelming majority. 
Please note,  Mr Deputy President,  that the letter stated that: 
At a meeting attended by approximately 200 citizens ... the following motions were tabled and passed by an overwhelming majority. 
I refer to an article which appeared in the  Morning Bulletin  on 4 April 1978. The  Morning Bulletin  is the daily paper in Rockhampton. The article is entitled 'Referendum on resort sought' and states: 
A public meeting at Yeppoon last night called for a referendum to be held in Central Queensland to ascertain people 's true feelings with regard to the Iwasaki resort proposals,  Mr Hugh  Cochrane said last night. 
Passed by a vote of 94 to 10 against . . . 
In this article  Mr Cochrane  is reported to have said the vote was 94 to 10 but in the letter he sent to  Mr Fraser  he said that the motions were passed by an overwhelming majority at a meeting of 200 citizens. 
Of course they did not all vote. About 96 people did not vote. In other words, it is hardly an overwhelming majority when 94 people-- 
I do not know they were there, but I am quoting-- 
If the honourable senator will bear with me, I am quoting from the letter sent to the Prime Minister by these people. 1 shall quote from it again for the honourable senator's benefit. The letter reads: 
At a meeting attended by approximately 200 citizens in the Yeppoon Town Hall on the 4th April, 1978 . . . 
I have quoted from the letter about the meeting, which was sent to the Prime Minister. I have read also from the Press release these people gave the  Morning Bulletin.  In the letter they talk about an overwhelming majority when it was 94 people out of about 200 people. The letter goes on and outlines the four motions which were passed and concludes as follows: 
I trust that these motions convey to you the true feelings of the citizens of this area and that the wishes of the majority of the average Australian is democratically maintained. 
Of course they did not vote. They were not in favour of the meeting; they were mainly there as observers. The Press release published in the  Morning Bulletin  continues: 
The meeting wants this referendum held before the State Parliament votes on the issue. ' 
The meeting was called by  Mr John  Geissmann  of Yeppoon, who told the meeting he was not associated with any other groups in Yeppoon but was 'simply concerned at the Iwasaki venture'. 
The Press release even states: 
The meeting was attended by about 200 people at its peak, but dwindled as the night wore on. 

 Mr Hugh Cochrane of Yeppoon who phoned 'The Morning Bulletin ' last night on behalf of  Mr Geissmann,  said the meeting also carried three motions. 
They were: 
That this meeting urge the Queensland Government to repeal the Aliens Act number 19 of 1955. Voting was 100 to 20. 
That hardly constitutes an overwhelming majority. The article continues: 
A motion of no confidence in the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-  Petersen was passed. 
The above motions to be sent to the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser  and the Federal Opposition Leader,  Mr Hayden. 
So we can see from their own figures jp their Press Release that it was hardly an overwhelming majority which was in favour of the motions which were passed on that night. We see that even in the very area in which this project is to be carried on there is certainly not any great public opinion against the project. It is quite interesting that  Mr Vanderheiden  stood as a candidate in the last local government election. He stood representing the Capricornia Coast Protection Council, the Capricornia Master Fishermen's Association and the Australian Labor Party.  His  main policy was to oppose the Iwasaki project. He stood for Division 2, which takes in part of Yeppoon and Farnborough, which is the area of the project. He literally got done like a dinner. He ran a very bad last out of ten. Yet these people have come down here and sought the help of people who do not know anything about the project and are saying that the vast majority of the people in the area are overwhelmingly against it. 
The last attempt at a public meeting to whip up support in the area against this project was held in Yeppoon on 28 April. The meeting was widely publicised in all the media. The Australian flag was defaced on Anzac Day. That made headlines at least throughout Queensland, until the man was told to remove the flag. There were large illegal hoardings for a full week, yet all that turned up at that meeting in this so-called bastion of opposition to the Iwasaki project was approximately 73 people. Of that 73 people there were observers from organisations such as the Chamber of Commerce, which wants to see the  project go  ahead; the Capricornia Tourist Association, which wants to see the project go ahead; the Livingstone Shire Council, including the  Chairman,  Roy Wall, which wants to see the project go ahead; and the Rockhampton Regional Promotion Bureau, which wants to see the project go ahead. They were among the total of 73 people who attended this massive meeting which had been so widely advertised to be against the Iwasaki project. 
Approximately the same motions as were moved at the previous meeting were moved at this meeting and the maximum support was 57 votes. This meeting was widely publicised throughout an area in which approximately 60,000 people live. The maximum number of people who attended the meeting was about 73 people. As I have said, a lot of them were observers and the maximum support they got for their motions was 57 votes. How ridiculous can people get? With that result they are going to go around the countryside and purport to speak for people in the area. In one of the letters which  Senator Keeffe  incorporated- this appears at page 1411 of the Senate  Hansard  of 4 May- the following appears: 
Why is the Queensland Government obtaining this land to sell freehold to the Iwasaki Co. and denying Australians the same opportunity in a society that is supposed to be a private enterprise one? 
Why  shouldn't  Australians be able to purchase this land in their own country? 
The question is not 'why shouldn't they'; it is why didn't they'. The opportunity has been there all the time. I have an advertisement - 
I am just quoting a section of it. An advertisement for the sale of land recently appeared in the  Australian.  If  Senator Keeffe  would like to earn himself a good, handy commission, he could act as agent in the sale of this land to  Mr Harris  and to  Mr Vanderheiden  who are so interested in land on the central coast of Queensland being available to Australians. 
I wish I had. 
I would like to introduce  Senator Keeffe  to my bank manager some time. I would be under suspicion, but not for that reason. As I was saying, an advertisement appeared in the  Australian  on 12 May 1978 which read as follows: 
Location: Midway between Rockhampton Capricornia Coast and the Whitsunday Islands off Mackay: 144.8 kms by road to Rockhampton. 
The property: Totals 1026.7 hectares (2,537 acres) Freehold. Absolute Ocean Frontage. The 5 km beach with its 15.30 m of clean sand at high tide must be seen to be appreciated. Adjacent are Headlands and secluded coves. 
The hinterland is virtually a natural garden with almost every variety of flora and fauna, and views of ocean and mountains. 
Improvements: Consist of Roads, airstrip, two (2) Caravans, electric generating plant, wells, pumps, tractors, etcetera. 
Remarks: Would make an ideal Tourist Resort or private hideaway. Seclusion a feature, combined with only two (2) hours drive to Rockhampton (20 minutes by air). 
The scenery- natural bush, wildlife, island-studded ocean, fishing and a magnificent beach are all superb- and can only be fully appreciated by inspection. 
I might add that just off-shore is the Swain reefs area which is known for its magnificent fishing. 
As I said, if  Senator Keeffe  wants to make a commission, he can go up there and sell this land to all those Australians who are being prevented from buying freehold land. What utter rot has been dished out from this senator from Queensland- the knocker from north Queensland. This is a very big complex which will bring a large number of tourists to Australia and which also will provide a good tourist resort for Australians. It is probably the major, single controlled development on the Australian coast. It is more desirable than all the uncontrolled development that we have had at many of our Australian coastal resorts. We will have an influx of money from the company and from tourists. As well there will be the development of the area and employment for people in the central coast area of Queensland. There will be improved roads and airport facilities, increased employment, increased business potential for service industries and obviously for locally established business. Of course, the area probably will have the first big international standard resort hotel for Queensland. 
I have no hang-up- I know that some people have- about the sale of freehold land to aliens provided the Government puts conditions on the sale. As I said before, the Queensland Government on this sale has put conditions which are so strict that it is a wonder  Mr Iwasaki  wants to go ahead with the resort. It will be built on freehold land which has been sold to  Mr Iwasaki.  But under the franchise agreement the development will be monitored very strictly by the State Government. Very few companies, least of all Australian companies, would be prepared to go ahead with the development under these sorts of restrictions. It is unfortunate but true that the Australian investor is very tardy about putting his money into long term projects, as we found out when we tried to develop our mining areas. We have had to bring in money from overseas to develop any projects that take a long time to give a return to the investor. 
Let me give the Senate some idea of how the project will proceed. At stage 1, there will be no accommodation for tourists in the first season. In the second year, accommodation will be provided for 280 tourists. In the third year there will be accommodation for 640 tourists. In year four, accommodation will be available for 940 tourists and in year five- the conclusion of the first stage of the project- there will be accommodation for 1,290 visitors and tourists to that area. Of course, if stage 1 proves viable and attractive to international and Australian tourists, the international hotel development will proceed further to provide accommodation for a total of 3,000 people. On top of that,  Mr Iwasaki  is quite prepared to spend money in updating facilities at Rockhampton airport, possibly to international standards, or even to buying further land to provide an airport of an international standard. As a member of Parliament living in that area I welcome this development. I think that it will be tremendous for the central coast area of Queensland, for Queensland and for Australia. It will provide a tourist resort for all Australians. In addition, it will provide a resort for international tourists to come to Australia, to spend their money here and to look at other parts of Australia in order to obtain a better concept of Australiana. I welcome the construction of" the resort in the natural environment of the central coast area of Queensland. 
I notice that when  Senator James  McClelland opened his remarks this afternoon he talked about the paranoia in which the Government parties supposedly view the ABC. Yet I pose the question: Which side of this chamber brings up debates such as this? I can recall that on 1 5 September 1976  Senator Button  brought on an urgency motion, the wording of which was: 
The failure of the Government to ensure the independence, integrity and high repute of Australia's national Broadcasting Services '. 
Those words are almost the same and the meaning is completely the same as contained in the matter of public importance proposed today. I agree with  Senator Carrick  that there is every good reason why a public utility such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission should come under the scrutiny of this Parliament. I submit that there is every opportunity to do so both within the Estimates Committees and during the course of debate on the Appropriation Bills. 
Here we have the Opposition bringing up these urgency motions, now called matters of public importance. It is quite noticeable why it has done so. In the first instance  Senator Button  used the urgency debate initiated by him to launch an attack on  Sir Henry  Bland. In this instance it came out, mainly by interjection, that the Opposition did establish the real reason for the debate. It is the so-called political subjectivity of the commissioners and the management of the ABC. So we find ourselves in the situation of debating a similar matter. I draw to the Senate's attention the fact that we did this recently in relation to the Aboriginal case in Queensland. On two consecutive matters of public importance we discussed literally the same thing. 

 Mr President, you can have no doubt that we will hear the cries of self-righteous anguish next week as the Opposition says that we have not had time properly to debate all the legislation before this chamber as we seek to get up at the conclusion of this autumn session. Much has been said about the funding restraints on and the staff ceilings of the ABC. Of course it is history now that when we came to office the financial situation that we found Australia in was nothing short of disastrous. I mention the rate of inflation and interest rates. They are not the subject of debate today but I need to mention the situation. We had to do something drastically. The ABC is no sacred cow; nor should it be. We as a Government have a responsibility to the taxpayers, and we accepted that responsibility. The ABC was one of the many areas in which we introduced restraints on funding and staff ceilings. I make no apology for that. What I do take issue with is that unfortunately we recognised the independence of the ABC and possibly did not stipulate where those cutbacks should be. I have been critical that the cutbacks that the ABC made were in the production area and not in the middle echelon, administrative, fat areas. I think this is most unfortunate. But we recognise the ABC's right to operate its business as it sees fit. 
Much has been said about those who have supposedly left the ABC under pressure from this Government. Of course everybody knows that many people who work for the ABC do so under contract. When their contracts come up for renewal they may be dissatisfied with the ABC or the ABC may be dissatisfied with them. Who knows? It is not for us to debate that. Inevitably the people who have left have usually gone on to greater things and found that their experience with the ABC has done them a lot of good in the long term. They have been able to go onto other better things in the commercial broadcasting sphere or to other broadcasting spheres overseas. I think in the majority of cases most of them have done well for themselves and the experience that they have gained with the ABC has stood them in good stead. 
In the original debate on this matter that took place on 1 5 December 1 976 that I referred to I said in my opening remarks: 
Dear old Aunty, as she is affectionately known right around Australia, cops it from the Right, gets blasted from the Left, gets castigated by the radicals and gets maligned by the conservatives. 
I think that is probably the situation. 
No, it has not changed. Of course Aunty cannot quite be all things to all people even though she does seek to do this. Of course there will be people right around this country who will take issue with specific programs that are contrary to their own personal points of view. I guess it would be a mundane world if they did not do that. People are not like a herd of cows who can be run through a crush and branded with one brand. We are indeed different people and the ABC, being the largest broadcaster in Australia, sees its role as trying to cater for all tastes. We are a pluralistic society and the ABC must cater for all sections. Section 59 of the Broadcasting and Television Act- I think  Senator Ryan  alluded to this- states: 
Subject to this Act, the Commission shall provide, and shall broadcast or televise from transmitting stations made available by the Australian Telecommunications Commission, adequate and comprehensive programs and shall take in the interests of the community all such measures as, in the opinion of the Commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable broadcasting and television programs. 
I submit that in this instance the operative words are 'shall provide adequate and comprehensive programs'. I alluded to this when I mentioned that we are a pluralistic society and the difficulties that an organisation with the ramifications of the ABC must find in trying to cater to all tastes. It must also be recognised that because of its vast network the ABC in many instances has a monopoly. By having a monopoly it also has certain responsibilities. It must realise that the programs that it provides to a lot of areas of Australia are the only programs that the public in those areas will see or hear. 
I was touched by  Senator Ryan's  convenient concern for the people of rural Australia. I wish that concern had been paramount when her Government was in power. One of the reasons it is in Opposition now is its lack of concern. It was the previous Liberal-Country Party Government that introduced ABC translators right around the rural areas of Australia. Even now it has been announced that the Government will undertake a program to bring television services to many more of the remote areas of Australia. The program involves the establishment of 36 new repeater stations and 40 translator stations. It is planned to establish the majority of these new installations over the next three years commencing in the 1978-79 financial year. 
Yes, but the program was initiated before the Australian Labor Party got into Government. At that time I was living in the far north-west of Queensland. We were the recipients of the benefits of that program initiated, as I said, by the Liberal-National Country Party Government when it was in power prior to 1972. Now we are going to pick up that program and continue it to do something further for the people in rural Australia. 
Under the Act the programming responsibility is that of the ABC Commissioners; not of the 
Government. I am sure that the Commissioners would welcome any congratulatory remarks as well as constructive criticism. I have written to  Mr Duckmanton  on occasions when there has been a program that I thought had been handled extremely well. A public utility such as the ABC must come under the scrutiny of either individual members or of this Parliament as a whole. Nobody has any quarrel with that. As I said, I am sure the Commissioners would welcome criticism or general comment by the public in general and by members of Parliament about the running of the ABC. 
With regard to objectivity, I guess all too often it is like beauty; it is in the eye of the beholder. We are a pluralistic society and many people have individual ideas about the objectivity of certain programs. We realise in all aspects of theatre and film that the director or producer puts his own stamp on a production. This applies also in the case of broadcasting generally. However, in the case of news and current affairs programs there is less excuse for any subjectivity at all. Of course herein is the problem which we will always have with the ABC. But I must say that I have never yet heard the use of any reference material from ABC news and current affairs programs by honourable senators on this side of the chamber. Recently  Senator O  'Byrne in the debate on nuclear energy on 10 May devoted about 20 per cent of his speech referring to a Four Corners program. So much for objectivity. I have no knowledge of any honourable senator on this side of the chamber using reference material from any ABC program. 

 Senator Ryan thinks that ABC standards are not high enough. This is a reflection on the talent and creativity of the people in the ABC at this time. Any organisation, company or statutory corporation has to cut its cloth to suit. Nonetheless, the ABC has a certain amount of money available to it and it must make the best use of it. I believe that the programs emanating from the ABC, from the programming departmentboth the programs it buys and those it produces- set a standard by which most other programs should be judged. I think the standard of the ABC is second to none. I do not support the assertion contained in the matter of public importance before this chamber. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications been drawn to the reported comment by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications concerning a possible inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether such an inquiry will take place? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. What is the position with regard to the supply of and demand for teachers? Does the Government anticipate a significant surplus of teachers in the years ahead? If so, are training colleges and colleges of advanced education accepting any responsibility by tuning their intakes to the projected future needs? 
I think it is rather significant that three of the four honourable senators who will speak in this debate tonight come from Queensland. It might be significant that Queensland, being one of the major contributors to the Australian economy, is thankful for the small mercies that it receives from Canberra. The purpose of the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill is to provide $300m over the next five years to the States, and of that amount Queensland will receive a total of $35m or $7m for each of the next five years. An amount of $ 1 00m will be put aside for exigencies and anything that may crop up, and this money will be provided at a rate of $20m a year. It is significant that in this legislation urban transport grant money has been extended to include areas with a population of more than 40,000, and this is very welcome particularly in Queensland. 
It means that money can be spent not only in the metropolitan areas but also in cities such as Toowoomba, Townsville, Rockhampton, Cairns and of course the Gold Coast. Many of the people who reside on the Gold Coast now work in Brisbane. I hope that one day the people who live there as well as the people who live along the Gold Coast highway between Brisbane and the Gold Coast will be serviced with a far more efficient transport corridor than just the highway. A valid case could be made out for high speed rail transport from the Gold Coast into Brisbane especially when the rail link over the river, to which  Senator Georges  alluded, is completed. Such a rail system would mean that people could go right from Southport into the heart .of the business area of Brisbane. 
This Bill is also in keeping with our federalism policy. The Federal Government is providing the money with a minimum of interference, but of course the Government will want to know where the money is going and how it is spent. I think that should be so. The money will be divided up after consultation and agreement with the States. I think that an on-going committee should be formed to look at more than just the division of funds. It should look at the total problem of urban transport in Australia. At present Australia and I suppose many other countries are running around like chooks with their heads cut off when it comes to urban transport. We could almost call this funding aspro funding. As soon as a headache arises somewhere in urban transport we bring out the aspro funding to fix it up, without any proper planning and without looking at the total problems confronting the future of urban transport in Australia. This committee should be able to take on board new technologies and new methods of shifting large numbers of people at peak hour periods. It should be able to review the total transport situation relating to the use of rail, water- where there is water- buses and roads. 
Unfortunately urban transport at present is in a state of crisis, with air pollution, traffic jams and huge transport deficits. I think the people should realise that possibly never again, even if it ever did, will urban transport pay for itself. We have to look at the cost expended on urban transport and at the total benefits to the community. The more people we can entice to travel on public transport, the less private vehicles there will be on the roads; and with fewer people on the roads there will be fewer traffic jams, less energy will be expended, fewer tempers will become frayed and there will be less pollution in the inner city areas. A lot can be said for urban transport, but a balance has to be worked out as to how much of the cost commuters should pay and how much the community is prepared to bear. 
One of the major problems- it always will bewith urban transport is the love affair that the ordinary man has with his car. Take away a man's wife, if you wish, even his dog; but, heaven forbid, do not take his car. That seems to be the attitude of most of the males today. To discourage the use of cars, public transport must provide an attractive alternative. It must compete in comfort, time, door-to-door access and so on. When new suburbs are built the close relationship between land use, town planning and transportation should be considered. Unfortunately that close relationship never seems to be considered. Complete new satellite suburbs are built without any thought of a rail link. Once the suburbs are built authorities start talking about where the buses will run. They then find out that the thickness of the bitumen is not sufficient to take the heavy buses, and so it goes on. That close relationship must and should be considered at all times. The general concept of reducing energy usage should be to make the necessary provisions for shoppers and commuters to travel less. Planning should be undertaken so that visits to shops, schools, social services and local recreation can be undertaken quite feasibly on foot, by bicycle or, shortly, we hope, by small electric car. New suburbs should have a rail link built to them and small feeder buses running to the railway instead of in opposition to it. Satellite towns can also be serviced by fast rail services, as I mentioned with regard to the Gold Coast. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics has measured the changes in the method of travel to work in surveys in 1970 and 1974. The shift to the car for the journey to work has been massive. It ranges from 59 per cent of all journeys in 1970 to 66 per cent in 1974. The higher proportion of workers who travel by car are also using disproportionately more cars for these journeys. There is a trend to substantially less sharing and pooling. About 80 per cent of cars contain only one worker. Our laws on insurance and liabilities concerning car pooling need revising.  Mr Tony  Richardson of the Monash University has been researching problem areas in traffic engineering since 1974. He states that car occupancy rates for the journey to and from work are falling. The present Australian rate during peak hours is about 1.27 persons.  Mr Richardson  has estimated that if the occupancy rate in Melbourne returned to the 1964 average of 1.49 it would reduce journey to work energy consumption by about 15 percent, reduce journey to work travel time by 35 per cent, reduce journey to work air pollution by 50 per cent, reduce journey to work running costs by 30 per cent and defer the need for new road facilities for about three years. He contends that a 1 5 per cent reduction in the number of cars on the road during peak hours could be obtained by the introduction of car pooling schemes. I repeat that the present occupancy rate of cars in Melbourne during peak hours is about 1.27 persons. In other words, only one car in every four has two persons in it in peak hours in Melbourne. 
The present transport facilities- railways, fixed route buses, ferries and so on- are all being used but are under-utilised. Of course there is still a need for those services. The problems quite often are that the services are unreliable because of breakdowns and strikes. They are not doortodoor. Commuters frankly would prefer the more expensive bumper-to-bumper car travel than the shoulder-to-shoulder mass transport. A problem also arises because of the lack of integrated timetables and fares. I know that in Brisbane a major problem is that buses and trains run in opposition to each other. A good case can be made for trains servicing radii from the central city area and buses being used to feed those trains with integrated fare charging. 
Recognising as  Senator Georges  has done, that all speakers are on time limit so that the Senate can adjourn on Friday, I conclude on one further aspect. Martin Wohl, Professor of Transportation System Planning, at the Carnegie Mellon University has said that 'few regard the taxi cab as a significant element in urban transport but it has that role and it has a potential for services far greater than those now rendered '. I suppose that we seldom think of the humble taxi as a major urban transport method. The car is here to stay, as we have said. We must rationalise its use in the context of providing overall public transport services. Taxis should be used more. They may eventually even replace the second car in the inner city area. 
It is quite significant that the taxi industry is the only public transport service to pay its way, even taking account of capital investment, operating costs and the rigid and deleterious controls on fares, licensing and operations. Taxis have inherent cost advantages. The expense per vehicle hour is low when compared with mass transport. When operated for single fares the advantage is quite often lost. One area at which we have to look is group fares to nearby destinations from nearby origins. This capitalises on the low operating costs of taxis. We should look at new technology for the taxi industry. We could have a mass computer map in a central control area. Each taxi would be registered. When somebody rings for a taxi the nearest taxi is sent to him. If somebody is going from a suburb to the city and somebody from along the way rings and wants a taxi the taxi could also pick up that person. We could make far better use of the humble taxi cab. It is the only mass public transport system that pays its way. It has the flexibility to give people what they want; in other words, doortodoor availability. It would be major breakthrough if we could have automatic vehicle monitoring by computer. Thus we would be able to service a lot of our inner city areas without the major burden of the urban transport system as we know it. Of course that does not mean that we can immediately- if ever- do away with buses and trains. Nothing can shift the vast masses of people that we have coming into our transport system at peak hour like good, swift trains. With those few thoughts I commend the Bill to the chamber and acknowledge my support. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. With the current debate and concern in the community regarding spending on education, can the Minister inform the Senate what share of the national wealth has been spent on education in the last few years? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications about the current Telecom dispute. Is it true that the promotion procedure to which the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association is now objecting was suggested by the ATEA once a few years ago and accepted and introduced by Telecom Australia? Would the current proposals for promotion and advancement by the ATEA in fact allow quicker promotion, or is the ATEA executive building up false hopes to keep its members on side? Has Telecom given guarantees that no permanent Telecom employee will lose his or her job because - 
-I rise as a senator for Queensland, although I have been accused of being a senator for Utah. I have no interest in the Utah Development Co., although at times I wish I had. If we had a few more companies around the country as successful as Utah and Esso-BHP we would have a far less tax base for the ordinary citizen of Australia. Unfortunately, because of what the Labor Administration did to the companies and the general attitude of the Labor Party- which of course will keep it out of power for years to come- we have not as many of those successful companies as we would like. In the years to come Australia will be increasingly dependent on overseas crude oil. We have used our fossil fuels as though there were no tomorrow. We have used them as though there were a bottomless pit and very shortly we will be paying the price for that. Mainly because of the finds in Bass Strait by Esso-BHP we have had a good supply but it is not going to last. Our self-sufficiency will be reduced to 50 per cent by 1979-80 and 30 per cent by 1980-85. 
This measure has been introduced to raise additional funds, about which the Government has made no bones. When it brought its Budget in last year it said this measure would bring us up to world import parity. It has done that sooner than it anticipated and it has made no bones about that either. It has been introduced to raise money but also to encourage conservation. It is the conservation of our portable fossil fuels which will be of assistance to the rural sector of Queensland. That sector cannot transfer to coal as can many of the major industries. Fortunately, this Government is one which does not think of just today; it thinks of tomorrow. Its whole strategy has been to plan for the future so that this country can move along in orderly development and so that the people in rural Australia who have been disadvantaged will not all of a sudden be slugged by having to change to some alternate method that is not yet even on the horizon. The Government has acted responsibly. We believe that this measure of conservation will ultimately be to the benefit of those people in the rural areas of Australia and in rural industry. 
I suppose the most wasteful use of our fossil fuels has been the burning of petrol. On occasion 
I have said, and some of my colleagues have mentioned, that the diesel engine provides a most efficient means of transport. Most of the people in rural Australia use diesel tractors and diesel trucks. As I said, the most wasteful use is the burning of petrol. I hope that when the Prices Justification Tribunal considers the passing on of these prices- it has already done one survey and come down with a finding- it will go easy on the users of the liquid petroleum gas and the distillate that comes out of the refineries and will maybe let the petrol burning section bear the brunt a little harder. LPG and distillate are associated with the most fuel efficient sections of our society. LPG used in internal combustion engines provides far less pollution. I will touch on that shortly. It also provides for far less engine wear, far less servicing of engines, far fewer oil changes and those son of things. I think that the PJT should consider the use of LPG and distillate when deciding on fuel increases and should treat the users of those products far more kindly than it treats the petrol burning section of the community. 
In Australia we have pretty inefficient motor vehicles, I suppose because we have much cheaper fuel. Australian vehicle manufacturers have given us none too cheap, generally uninspiring, relatively inefficient and thirsty means of transport.  Senator Walsh  said that higher prices will not necessarily mean less consumption. But they will certainly mean better fuel efficiency. We have only to look at the cars that come from the Continent where prices are more than twice as high as ours to see where the most fuel efficient cars come from and where the most innovation has been with the development of the internal combustion engine. When we consider the cars that come from there and the relatively inefficient fuel burners that we have had put up to us and the fact that we have to protect our own inefficient industry, we realise that high prices can have a quite good effect to the benefit of those people who want to purchase motor vehicles. 
This brings me to the subject of pollution and the notorious Australian Design Rule 27A. Probably some of my colleagues, including  Senator Young  and  Senator Messner,  will want their 2 bits worth on this subject. Pollution first became noticed in the smog in London in 1952 when about 4,000 lives were lost. It has since become apparent in some of the major cities of the world and, unfortunately, in Sydney and Melbourne. Because of the fact that it worries Sydney and Melbourne we have all had foisted on us not so much the ADR 27a but what the Australian motor vehicle manufacturers have dished up to us as an answer to exhaust pollution. The emissions we get from an exhaust consist mainly of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and nitrous oxides. Apparently by some pretty complex series of chemical reactions the nitrous oxides and hydrocarbons react with oxygen in the atmosphere with the sun as a catalyst and we get this smog which can be so devastating. Because of that the Government brought down requirements that vehicles had to meet certain emission control standards- no more than so many grams per kilometre of each of those major pollutants. To do that the motor manufacturers have dished up to us a method by which we generally lean the mixture, retard the spark and recirculate the exhaust gases. Unfortunately this has meant that the power output of the engine has been reduced and as result more fuel has to be used in order to get a pre-ADR 27A power output. So we have ended up in the situation in which we now find ourselves. We may have less pollution- it is very questionable as to whether these regulations are really having the effect which people think they are- but we have less power and we are burning more fuel. 
The State and Federal governments when they discussed these regulations should have insisted that at the same time as exhaust emissions are reduced fuel consumption is also reduced. We can learn a lesson in this regard from the United States of America. In that country the Government has insisted that fuel consumption has to be improved at the same time as exhaust emissions are reduced. Unfortunately we did not do it in Australia. The Americans have gone about it in a different way. We are about five years behind them. They have used such things as catalytic converters in their exhaust systems. I believe that one of the Swedish manufacturers, Volvo, has gone a little further by using a small computer at very little extra cost to the converters and at very little cost additional to the cost of what we have put on our cars. It can meet all the fuel emission requirements and be well under them. By using a small computer and rhodium sensor in the exhaust pipe, it can literally feed the right mixture and the right spark advance into the computer so that the vehicle is far more efficient. 
There are plenty of ways other than the method that we have of getting better efficiency out of our internal combustion reciprocating engines. We can get better fuel consumption by introducing fuel injection and turbo-charging or stratified charging. Also there is no reason why most vehicles- in Australia they are usually doing long trips at some time or other- cannot have overdrive, not only on manual but also on automatic gear boxes. Or they could have variable speed gear boxes. If a vehicle has to be automatic- and I guess many of our people like the automatic- it could have a lock out torque converter so that there would be no slip at all once a high range had been attained. More attention should be paid to the weight of the vehicle and to aero-dynamic drag and there should be a better design for the tropics. The provision of a smaller glass area would ensure that one did not have to have one's airconditioner running all the time. We should look at electric cars, and external combustion cars; for instance, the steam car. I think that  Mr Pritchard  in Victoria has done a tremendous amount of work on this car which causes no pollution whatsoever. It can burn any sort of fuel. We should look at steel belted radial tyres and so on. 
I believe that with all this technology there is no reason whatsoever for manufacturing either a 6-cylinder or V8 engine. Any 4-cylinder 2,000 c.c. engine with fuel injection and turbo-charging will give all the power that is needed. When extra power is not needed extra fuel is not burnt. Our manufacturers in Australia have been very tardy with innovation and I believe leave much to be desired. The more that the price of fuel goes up the more they will have to pay attention to fuel economy as more fuel efficient cars come from overseas. 
I mentioned previously the burning of liquefied petroleum gas. I think the use of this gas should be almost compulsory for vehicles that spend most of their lives in city areas, such as taxis and delivery vans. Most fork lifts that work in warehouses now use LPG. Vehicles burning LPG meet all Australia Design Rule 27a requirements easily. Their hydrocarbon output is only 12 per cent of that of a petrol burning engine; carbon monoxide output only 1216 per cent and their nitrous oxide output is only 27 per cent of a petrol engine. This is why I suggested that the Prices Justification Tribunal should look sympathetically to LPG when it is looking at the pricing arrangements and it should encourage as many people as possible to use this fuel. 
In America, as I mentioned, the manufacturers went the way of the catalytic converters. Unfortunately unleaded fuel is needed for them to work. That raises a problem on its own. To have unleaded petrol requires a vast amount of capital expenditure in the refineries and also means the use of more crude oil to produce fuel of a higher octane rating. So that is not altogether a satisfactory way of dealing with the problem. The 
Americans have already developed a lead converter to go on the exhaust system ahead of the catalytic converter. 
It was interesting to note that, when the manufacturers in America were screaming about the emission controls that were put on them, the Honda Co. of Japan developed a stratified charge engine which was an embarrassment to Detroit because it easily met all the emission standards at the same time as the major manufacturers were saying that it could not be done. The Honda stratified charge engine works by having a small firing chamber in which a rich mixture is inducted which when fired in turn fires a very lean mixture in the main chamber which is the main propulsing charge in the cylinder. This works very effectively and shows what innovation can do. In fairness, the Ford Motor Co. has worked out a system similar to this whereby a very lean mixture is inducted into the cylinder but a fuel injector injects a rich mixture around the spark plug at the time of firing. This has the same effect. It shows what can be done without the debilitating result that the motor manufacturers in Australia have given us. 
I believe that there is a man on the Continent who has developed a new type of cylinder head which when installed on an ordinary engine with no other modifications can give a far better combustion of the fuel mixture and a far lower level of polluting emissions. Often a small concern or even an individual without any outside help has been far more innovative than the big manufacturers, who have screamed about what is presently required of them. I hope that by encouraging conservation we can put the squeeze on the major manufacturers to come up with a far better answer than they have done. I think that the Government should tell them that they have to meet certain mile-per-gallon requirements in the near future. 
I wish to talk briefly about alternative fuels. I speak specifically of alcohol- ethanol and methanol being the main two. As the price of petrol goes up it will not be long before their use is viable, firstly mixed with petrol and then as complete fuels themselves. If we start working on these fuels now, another industry in Australia would be created. Methanol can be used in a 15:85 ratio with petrol and ethanol in a 20:80 ratio without any alteration of the compression ratio or the fuel air mixture of an engine. The use of fuel alcohol is not new. It was used in Europe for a considerable time in the 1930s and in Queensland from 1929 to, I believe, as late as 1956.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you would probably be aware that alcohol was used in a 20 per cent mixture with petrol in North Queensland where it was available. In Sarina we have the largest power alcohol distillery in the southern hemisphere. The alcohol is distilled from molasses as a by-product of the cane industry. 
Methanol can be produced from any municipal, industrial or agricultural waste, wood or natural gas. But, more importantly, it can be made from coal. We should forget all the talk about converting coal to oil and get on with the job of converting coal to methanol because more energy per ton of coal can be produced by converting coal to methanol and a far greater range of coal can be used in this process. We should be investigating this. As I said, we can use methanol in a 1 5: 85 ratio without any alteration to engines. But a properly modified vehicle can use pure methanol. Indeed, a lot of racing cars do, but they are modified fork. 
In the agricultural areas of Queensland we are looking towards the use of ethanol. As I said, it has been used previously. In Nebraska in the United States of America experiments are being conducted with maize ethanol. Cars are running on cane ethanol in Brazil. A massive amount of work is being done in Brazil with cassava. An interesting effect of using either of these alcohols in a ratio with petrol is that they raise the octane rating of the fuel. As I mentioned before, with the catalytic converters in America a vehicle has to have a lead filter in the exhaust system before the converter. A fuel with up to 89 octane rating can be produced without lead in a mixture of 20 per cent ethanol and 80 per cent petrol. 
People in inner city areas are becoming more concerned about lead pollution, especially lead in the human body. We know what lead poisoning can do but to the present we are not aware that it is having any deleterious effect on people living in the inner city areas. But that does not mean that it will not in the future. The lead that is put in petrol to give anti-knock properties and increase the octane rating is released in particulate form into the atmosphere and people breathe it in. As I said, with a 20 per cent ethanol to 80 per cent petrol mixture no lead whatsoever is required to produce a fuel with an 89 octane rating, which is standard fuel, and only a small amount of lead is required to bring it up to premium grade fuel. So there is a trade-off in this process plus the fact that the production of fuel alcohol would establish another Australian industry. As the price of fuel rises with world parity it will be more viable for us to do this. At present the alcohol is distilled from molasses. There is no reason on earth why when we have a peak crop and there is not a market for the sugar that standover cane cannot be used and instead of processing it to make sugar and molasses the juice could go straight into ethanol manufacturing. 
We could be looking at areas which could grow sugar beet exclusively for ethanol manufacture and also the growing of cassava which is coming under increasing attention around the world. In a small town in southern Queensland, Boonah, Richter Engineering Pty Ltd is doing a lot of work on cassava harvesters. It is significant that the only successful harvester for cassava in the world has been manufactured in Queensland. Yet Australia is doing the least towards developing this alternative fuel source. The harvester was manufactured from a modification to an arrowroot harvester. It has been shown around the world. It is the only one competing against all the big engineering works of England and the Continent and it is doing it effectively. The tubes of the cassava plant can be used for ethanol manufacture. The leaves have a high protein content and can be used as a chaff or hay for cattle feeding. The stalk itself can be used for the planting and growing of further cassava plants. It is not planted in the same way as cane where the stalk is laid in the ground. Cassava is planted upright. This is something at which we could and should be looking. 
In the Budget the Government is, as well as putting up fuel prices, which is what we are debating today, encouraging conservation methods by allowing $ 15m for research into and development of alternative fuels. I think that is what Australia should be doing.  Senator Walsh  did mention public transport. I think that much as we would desire the public to use public transport to a greater degree the average citizen in an affluent developed country does have a love affair with his motor vehicle. No matter what we do, short of what might be done in a totalitarian state, I do not think we will break up that cosy relationship. We have to accept the fact that the ordinary person likes his motor vehicle. We have to live with that fact. We should make public transport as efficient as we can and encourage as many people as we can to use it. I guess that public transport will never actually pay for itself. Of course a consideration of the cost to the community in getting people to use public transport is a different matter. The motor vehicle is here and is here to stay. We have to make it more efficient. We have to provide alternative fuels. I believe that the law of supply and demand and the fact that there are more efficient manufacturers than the major manufacturers in Australia will help us to achieve those objectives. If we can encourage those sorts of things we will have achieved something. I commend the legislation. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Recognising the effect that the sales tax reduction as announced in the Budget will have on motor vehicle registerations and also the fact that motor vehicle registrations are generally regarded as an economic indicator and thus the figures for the September quarter will not be a fair indicator, can the Minister advise the Senate of the number of motor vehicle registerations in the two quarters prior to the Budget? 
I suppose it is unusual on a Wednesday, when we are discussing a matter of public importance, to find so much unanimity on both sides of the chamber. Usually, we find ourselves in the midst of quite a debate. This afternoon it is more of a forum than a debate, with the only difference being on the degree of enormity of the problem or the degree of abhorrence which each and every one of us has for this aspect of the overseas operations of Qantas Airways Limited. Australia signed the relevant United Nations Charter on 1 November 1945. Syria actually signed it before Australia did. It signed it on 19 October 1945. 1 wish to quote from Article 55 of Chapter IX of that Charter, headed 'International Economic and Social Co-operation'. The preamble states: 
With a view to the creation of stability and well-being which are necessary for peaceful and friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples, the United Nations shall promote: 
I shall quote clause (c) of that Chapter, which states:  universal respect for. and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion. 
As I said, we are a signatory to that Charter. Syria is also a signatory to that Chaner yet, as with many of the articles of United Nations charters, all too often it is found that the signatory nations give it only lip service. The matter of public importance was raised today because of an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  this morning. Unfortunately, we have not had the time to collect full details on the matter. If the article is correct- I think we all agree that part of it is obviously correct- it is an indictment of Australia and of our national flag carrier. Unfortunately, because of the drivel that is dished out to us in the Press these days, we do not know how much of the article is correct or what the full story is. Be that as it may, the article contains enough to concern each and every honourable senator on both sides of this chamber here today. 
It represents an imposition and a restriction of which we would never have thought that we, as a country, would be a part. We have always thought that we are above that sort of thing. We have always thought that the only parties to that sort of thing were other countries, Third World countries- third rate countries, if we like. We find that a country over which we have overflight rights has imposed certain conditions. This is not new. The Minister for Education and Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Carrick)  alluded to that today in answer to a question and also when he took part in this debate. This approach is an integral part of negotiations in international civil aviation. Unfortunately, Syria is not a signatory to the Air Transit Agreement so Qantas has to come to its own separate arrangement with Syria as does every other airline. 
A condition of these over-flight arrangements is that at least one Qantas service should land at Damascus each way each week. Of course, it is that particular flight that is causing the trouble because Syria, for reasons that we do not know, has acted in the way it has. We all have our suspicions and we do not like what we suspect.  Senator Georges  raised another point, namely, that perhaps Syria feels that it might not be able to guarantee the safety of any Jewish nationals who land at that airport. Be that as it may, Syria, in imposing this restriction, has sought to put restrictions on the Article of the United Nations Charter from which I read which, to our minds, reek of racial intolerance and religious prejudice. 
It constitutes a discrimination not only against religion, not only against race, but also against nationality- all three. That is an intolerable situation for us to find ourselves in and for us to be a part of. 
Religious discrimination of the type practised to enforce this ban is reminiscent of the Middle Ages. It would be thought that in the twentieth century we would have reached a higher level of human tolerance, but it seems that we still live in an age in which a person 's religion is a criterion on which his human rights are determined. As I said, and every honourable senator agrees with me, that is an intolerable situation. What we are finding hard to stomach is the calm acceptance by Qantas of these restrictions, contrary to any beliefs we have in freedom of religion. It is ironic that we find that these restrictions have been in existence for five years. It is a discrimination that is worse than that of the Middle Ages, yet we are supposed to be living in an enlightened age. The apathy which Qantas has exhibited is akin to acceptance of racial and religious intolerance. 
Where do we go from here? It is quite easy for us to stand up and say that Qantas should not have done what it has done. But what are the alternatives? Sure, Syria is not the only place that we have to over-fly. It must be said that this intolerance applies apparently only to the one flight of the many flights that Qantas operates each way each week. This applies not only to people of the Jewish faith but also, apparently, to those people who have been into Israel on an Israeli visa. But this restriction applies just to that one flight. It is not as though these people are precluded from ever flying to Europe or England from Australia. I think that we must bear that in mind and recognise that the situation is not as bad as it at first seems. That is my understanding of the situation. 
If Qantas did object to the restrictions, what would be the situation with the other Arab nations in the Middle East? Would we still be granted over-flying privileges in Iran, Iraq, Saudi-Arabia, Egypt and so on? This is something that we would have to consider. If Qantas were to object to these restrictions it would mean re-routing Qantas flights. If Qantas were the only airline to stand up on this issue, it would be placed at a severe commercial disadvantage. I know that  Senator Wheeldon  has taken issue on the question of just how far one can go with commercial disadvantage. That is a question at which the Government and Qantas have to look.  Senator Georges  raised also the problems that would exist if we disagreed with what was happening in Indonesia. We would be at a very severe disadvantage in the international sphere if we fell out with the entire Arab world and with Indonesia. Are we going to fold Qantas up and say: Because Qantas is under these restrictions no airline that does not observe the same restrictions as Qantas observes can come to Australia? 
Where does the matter begin and where does it end? I believe that it is here that the Australian Government, now that this matter has been brought to its attention, has to take a lead. It has to negotiate with the Arab countries and tell them about this situation. In particular, the Australian Government has to negotiate with Syria, which has an abominable record at this time when we consider what is happening in Beirut. We have not only to negotiate with the Arab countries, but also to tell them that we find the situation with Syria intolerable. We have to get agreement with other nations on this matter, as we have done with international hi-jackings. I am sure that it would be possible to do so and to sit down with representatives of other nations which are signatories to Article 55 of this United Nations Charter and say that we think that this is an intolerable situation and that those nations also should accept the fact that we cannot go along with this intolerance and this prejudice. 
I agree that, although this is Qantas 's responsibility- it took the initial decision and this day it has been condemned for taking that decision on its own- this does not necessarily represent an indictment just of Qantas. Because of the intolerance, the prejudice, the bigotry and the racism involved in this, it is a general indictment of the whole of the society in which we live today that such a situaton could have arisen and could have been allowed to exist for up to five years. I believe that we as a Parliament and we as a country have to do all that we can and not be- I think  Senator Georges  used this term- servile to situations such as this created by Third World countries or other countries which seek to impose these intolerable prejudices on us. We should not be servile. We should stand up, seek out the other countries which are signatories to this United Nations Charter and make them put their money where their mouth is and stand up for what they believe, if they really believe that there should be no discrimination as to race, sex, language or religion. I am sure that if we put a bit of steel into our own backbone we would find a lot of steel in the backbones of others. Then we could stand up against such a practice, especially of a country with such a shocking track record as Syria has at this point in our history. 

 -As Senator Gietzelt has indicated, the Senate is debating the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill (No. 2) 1978. This is normal procedural legislation by which the Government contributes nothing but guarantees a loan when one of the two major domestic airlines wishes to purchase a new aircraft. The aviation industry in Australia has grown up with government assistance in the form of loans and protection. Per head of population, Australia is more aviation minded than any other country in the world. My home State of Queensland is very aviation minded. I think that it would be as well to remind the Senate that in Queensland there are eight jet airports in operation every day of the week. At the last count I did there were at least 31 airports of Fokker Friendship standard and undoubtedly many more of a lesser standard. So Queensland is extremely aviation minded. As a matter of fact, without getting too parochial, it beats me why the airlines have established their headquarters in Melbourne which, basically, has only one jet airport and a few cricket fields scattered around the place to take light commuter aircraft. The decisions that affect the areas that need aviation most are taken in Melbourne but, as I am sure the Western Australians will agree, the people there are out of touch with the realities of aviation. 

 Senator Gietzelt rightly mentioned that the two.airline policy has been a bone of contention in Australia for many years. At present there are people who want to disband the two.airline policy. They want to deregulate the industry and start up a third airline. I think that it should be said at the outset, as the report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review has indicated, that the two-airline policy has served Australia very well. One thing that many people do not realise is that it has provided regular scheduled services throughout Australia. 
This is one of the few occasions when I agree with  Senator Georges.  It is provided at a pretty high standard. If the safe arrival of passengers is any criterion we are without peer in world aviation. If we completely disbanded the two-airline system, if we opened up the system to include a third airline or if we deregulated it we would have a wonderful and cheap service between Brisbane, Coolongatta, Sydney and Melbourne, but that is not the point. We would find that the less populous areas were being badly treated. That is not to say that we cannot improve the two-airline system. I agree with  Senator Gietzelt  and the report in this respect. The report states that the two-airline policy should allow for far more competition than currently exists. Of course, this calls into question the problem of rationalisation. This problem must be looked at seriously. It must be considered that where we have rationalisation we get a better utilisation of aircraft. One of the things that the report shows up is that Australian aircraft utilisation is above world standard. That means a lot, especially when we are attempting to conserve the scarce fossil fuels on which these aircraft rely. With rationalisation there is one full aircraft where once there would have been two half-filled aircraft. 
There is a lot to be said for that. But I think that we should get away from the situation in which the General Manager of one airline rings his counterpart in the other airline and they decide whether we are to have ham or red salmon on our sandwiches. Frankly, neither of them turns me on. I am sick of the standard of airline sandwiches. I would like to think that as a result of a bit of needling from me the sorts of savouries and pastries which are served on some of the flights are an improvement on the soggy sandwiches of which a lot of us are heartily sick. It must be said that rationalisation has played a part. If we disbanded it completely and were running two half-filled aircraft instead of one full aircraft obviously it would mean an increase in the cost to the public and that would be related right through to the air fare structure. 
Parallel scheduling is another bone of contention and it has been so from time immemorial. I suppose that we all would wish to see otherwise. In this regard two things must be said in defence ofthe airlines. The first is that they schedule their aircraft to depart at the times when most people want to travel. I suppose that is good commercial sense. Just because I am the only one in Queensland who wants to travel from Brisbane to Rockhampton at 3 o'clock in the afternoon does not mean that the airlines should be obliged to put on an aircraft for my sake. Sometimes I wish they would. Secondly, it must be said- I relate this back to aircraft utilisation- that most people wish to commence their travel at 7 a.m. Unfortunately, while the rest of Australia operates on a silly time and Queensland operates under God's own time, it means a 6 a.m. departure in Queensland. Be that as it may, 7 o'clock in the morning is the time when most people wish to commence their journeys. An aircraft which starts operating at that time of the morning is effectively locked into a schedule right throughout the day. The airlines do not wish to have an aircraft sitting on the ground for any length of time and obviously not earning money. So they lock their aircraft into a schedule for the whole of a day. In addition, it must be remembered that an 1 1 p.m. curfew operates at a lot of the major airports in Australia. So when we are looking at parallel scheduling we must remember that the flights are scheduled when most people want to travel and that once the aircraft have started their day's work they are literally locked in and we must obtain maximum aircraft utilisation to keep our fare structure down. 
One of the things that concerns me as a Queenslander is the brush fire that has blown up in western Queensland about Trans-Australia Airlines withdrawing some of its services. I draw to the attention of honourable senators the fact that one of the precepts of the two-airlines agreement is that the airlines must maintain currently operated rural air services as long as revenue exceeds direct operating costs. If either of the airlines wishes to withdraw from a service I think that it should have to prove to the Government, which has played a major part in its operation and which has protected it in the past, that its revenue does not exceed its direct running costs. I understand that the direct running costs represent about half of the total running costs of an aircraft. In respect of a Fokker Friendship operating in western Queensland we are probably looking at a figure of about $380 to $400 per hour as the direct running cost. I think that TAA should have to prove to the Government that it is not receiving that amount of revenue. 
Against that- this ties in with one of the recommendations of the report to which I have referred- is the adjunct of regional airlines. The report says that the major carriers should withdraw to the stage of servicing only the major trunk routes, leaving the newer regional services to look after the rest and even to compete on some of the trunk routes during those off-periods of the day when fewer passengers are wanting to travel and they could be transported in a smaller type of aircraft. I am referring to the services from Brisbane to Roma, Charleville, Blackall, Longreach and Winton and servicing such pons as Isisford, Muttaburra and Aramac as well as the Townsville to Mount Isa route and what is affectionately known in Queensland as the milk run, although I can assure those honourable senators who have not travelled on the milk run in a Fokker Friendship in the middle of the day at the height of summer that if there were any milk on it the milk would become decidedly curdled. It is a very rough and a very hot trip. They are the runs with which we are concerned at this point. I have been in contact with TransAustralia Airlines. The local member,  Mr Bill  Glasson, is quite concerned.  Mr Bob  Katter also has raised the matter.  Mr McKenzie  has assured me, and I hope that the people of western Queensland will accept this assurance, that TAA will not walk away from those services. But I must also explain that in western Queensland that assurance probably has a bit of a hollow ring when one considers what happened to the Channel and the Gulf runs that operated out of Cloncurry for many years in the early days of aviation in Australia. 
As I said, this is a chance for a regional airline to step into the breach. I believe that negotiations are currently going on. While these negotiations are going on, I must say that the people of western Queensland could conceivably end up with a better service. Whereas it is not now feasible to operate F27-type aircraft because of lower passenger loadings, an aircraft with a lower seat mile cost might be able to do the job, and might be able to do it more frequently. So it is quite conceivable that, if TAA does walk out of some of its services or maintains some of them and cooperates with a regional operator, the people of western Queensland could be better off. 
It is obvious that one of the problems facing regional operators is the fact that most of the aircraft available for this particular job are not made for the longer regional routes. They are made for the commuter runs. One of these aircraft is the Spanish C212 Aviocar, which has a maximum load of 19 passengers with baggage and a range of only 258 nautical miles or 474 kilometres, that is, with a 45-minute statutory fuel reserve but with no additional fuel for an alternative destination in the event of bad weather. However, to reach a range of 949 nautical miles or 1,760 kilometres, eight passengers have to be taken off the plane, thereby reducing the maximum passenger load to eleven. The Swearingen Metro liner, which our Bush Pilots Airline is now operating on the route from Emerald to Brisbane, has a 19-passenger load with baggage, with a range of 187 nautical miles or 346 kilometres. The load has to be reduced to 1 1 with baggage, to get a range of 595 nautical miles or 1,102 kilometres. So even though these aircraft are pressurised and are good aircraft, they are not altogether made for the regional runs. The Israeli Aircraft Industries have built the 101 Arara, which has a maximum load of 20 passengers with baggage. It has a range of 1 5 1 nautical miles or 280 kilometres. The number of passengers has to be reduced to six and there must be optional long range fuselage tanks to get 705 nautical miles or 1,306 kilometres. 
Then there is the Twin Otter, about which we in Australia know so much. It is operated by many of our services. It is a good commuter aircraft and a good aircraft on short airstrips. With accommodation for 20 passengers with baggage and 200 kilograms of freight, giving it a maximum cruise speed of 182 knots, it has a 100 nautical mile or 180 kilometre range. If the load is reduced to 14 passengers plus baggage, the range is 520 nautical miles or 956 kilometres. If the load is further reduced to 12 passengers plus baggage the range is still 520 nautical miles and have an allowance for a 100-nautical miles diversion which might have to be used. So it can be seen that with all these aircraft we have this problem. With the Shorts SD330 which was demonstrated here in Canberra the company has at least tried to be a bit more innovative. It has room for 30 passengers. I can walk the full length of the cabin without having to duck my head. This is quite a pleasant surprise in that sort of aircraft. The cabin is not pressurised, but it has good air conditioning, which is a good idea on a short run, because the aircraft would not be able to get high enough to require use of the pressurisation anyhow. But unfortunately the aircraft also has a short range. However, I must say that the company has been most innovative with the engine. The PT6A-45 engine has been used. A similar engine is also available in the Twin Otter but for this aircraft the company has a different specified gearbox. This utilises a 5-bladed propeller spinning at only 1,200 revs per minute, giving a lot quieter operation both inside the cabin and outside the cabin. The propeller tips do not go anywhere near sonic even at maximum revolutions. So I think the company is to be congratulated for having been so innovative. 
I come to my final point. My one criticismand in effect it includes all those aircraft- is why the Government Aircraft Factories built the Nomad in that particular category, when we have so many other types of aircraft available for commuter running and none really available for commuter regional running over longer distances. The Nomad aircraft with a load of 16 passengers plus baggage and operating at 168 knots has a range of 110 nautical miles or 200 kilometres. If the load is reduced to 1 1 passengers plus baggage, the range is 700 nautical miles or 1,288 kilometres at maximum cruise speed. So, to have our own Australian built aircraft of effective use to us in Australia, there has to be quite a trade off in the number of passengers that can be carried. 
Honourable senators should remember that we are looking at an aircraft to take the place of the F27 on many of our western runs. Ordinary TAA seating configuration is about 36 seats. East- West Airlines, running a commuter service, has a seating capacity up to 52 seats. Yet the Government Aircraft Factories built an aircraft in the same category as that built by manufacturers all round the world. I would have liked the Government Aircraft Factories to have taken into consideration a bit more what we really need. We need to accommodate these passengers in comfort; in cabins which, if not pressurised, are air-conditioned. We need aircraft which can take a full load over a far longer range. At present there is not that type of aircraft in Australia. I hope that in future our Government Aircraft Factories will be a bit more innovative. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, concerns an article in today's 
Press entitled 'The Pritchard engine runs out of steam*. Is it a fact that the Federal Government has refused further funds for continuing research and development on the Pritchard steam powered car? If so, will the Government reconsider such a decision, especially in view of the fact that this vehicle can burn cleanly, that is, with negligible noxious emissions, vastly different fuels. These include the petroleum products with which we are conversant and alcohols produced as by-products of our rural industries. Although it might bring tears to the eyes of the connoisseurs in this chamber, it is conceivable that surplus grapes could in the future fuel motor vehicles instead of debate and- dare I say it- with better results. 
-I also join my colleagues in this chamber in expressing condolences on the death of former  Senator Lawrie.  I took his place here representing Queensland.  Senator Lawrie  was a big man in every way. He was big in stature and big in heart. That has been adverted to already. He saw Australia as a big country with a big potential. For that potential to be realised Australia needed men with a big vision. Ellis Lawrie was such a man. It also needed men who could husband the earth and manage its herds and flocks. Ellis was a man of the land and, as has been intimated already, he associated himself early in his life with the United Graziers Association of Queensland and the Central Coast Graziers Association. He sensed that the land and the people who worked it- those who farmed it- were going to play an increasing part in the government and development of this country. He was interested in public life not just because country people needed representation- they did then and they do now- but also because he felt that people who were reared in the country had something to offer this nation. 
As  Senator Webster  has said, he involved himself very much in public life, but all the time he found himself drawn inexorably to the world cf politics. In 1 945 he joined the then Australian Country Party He served on many of its councils with distinction. From 1961 to 1964 he was its State  President.  Then he was a member of the Australian Country Party in the Senate for 10 years. In 1976 he received his party's highest reward in the form of life membership. 
Ellis, with all his humility, mixed well. He could not dissolve easily into a crowd because he stood tall and his broad shoulders made him very easy to pick out in a crowd. He liked people and, more importantly, people felt quite at ease with him whenever they wanted to discuss their problems. He was a quiet man and an unpretentious man, but his quiet and unpretentious manner hid a very sharp and alert mind. He served well on committees of the Parliament. When I first came into this chamber the officers of the Senate ever so gently reminded me of the person in whose footsteps I trod. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber who served with him on committees also reminded me, not quite as gently, of him in whose footsteps I trod and the part that  Senator Lawrie  played in his own quiet manner in the Parliament. He was no headline seeker. If headlines came his way, he accepted that and he just got on with the job that he was put in the Parliament to do. I join with the other senators in their expressions of condolence to his wife Margaret and the family. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. With the first of the cheap air fares into and out of Australia now in operation and, I understand, working successfully, can the Minister advise whether the Australian Tourist Commission has anything in the pipeline to capitalise on the cheap air fares and encourage tourists into Australia? 
We are debating a motion to refer to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment an inquiry into oil exploration in the Great Barrier Reef area, including all the possible effects of any such exploration.  Senator Jessop  has stated already that oil exploration on the Great Barrier Reef has been the subject of two quite large inquiries. I hope that at some time more money can be made available to the Australian Institute of Marine Science near Townsville which has a 24-metre vessel, the  Lady Basten,  available for investigation into all forms of marine biology. I hope that more money can be made available to the Institute so that it can look at all aspects of possible pollution of the reef, not only oil pollution but human pollution- pollution from substances that are washed down the rivers and the creeks which flow into the area. We know already that some pesticides and fertilisers could be having some sort of effect. I would hope that the Australian Institute of Marine Science would look into this matter quite thoroughly. I see no reason for any further parliamentary investigations at this stage. 
Much has been said about the Fraser Island decision. I would say that we in Queensland are getting a little bit tired of the gratuitous advice we seem to be getting from the south about the management of our natural resources. I stated when the Fraser Island decision was made that it was a bad and unnecessary decision. I stand by that statement. I also say that all those prophets of doom should go back there and see that all the things that they said would happen because of the mining have not happened. As a matter of fact the regrowth has been quite amazing. Those prophets of doom should go up there and see just how wrong they were in the first instance. I would hope that the people in the south who keep giving us this gratuitous advice would do more to support the economy of Australia rather than try to prevent a State such as Queensland from getting on with its work. 
Of course the Great Barrier Reef is an emotional subject for all Australians. It is a beautiful wonderland and everybody agrees that it should be looked after. But, of course, if mankind never took any risk at any stage we would never have progressed beyond the cave. Judging by some of the speeches tonight, I suppose that if people had looked ahead and seen what damage the wheel would wreak on humanity over the passing centuries they would never have gone ahead with its developments. 
The Great Barrier Reef is a vast area. It stretches for about 1,200 miles along the Queensland coast and varies in its distance from the Queensland coast to in excess of 100 miles. The Barrier Reef is what its name indicates- a barrier or outer reef. Very seldom is it exposed and very seldom is it seen by human eyes. On the continental reefs, such as Swain's Reefs off the Queensland coast, there are reef slopes, outer rims and lagoons. Then there are the coral cays and the islands and channels. It is a vast ecosystemvast beyond the comprehension, obviously, of most southerners who have never been up to see it. 
This debate presumes that there will be some danger, to a greater or lesser extent, if oil drilling is carried out. First of all we should consider what happens when oil spills occur. We already have a fair idea of what happens in the intertidal areas. That, of course, could happen on the inter-tidal area along the Barrier Reef whether there was a reef there or not. Such a happening is pretty well documented. But tonight we have to differentiate from that because we are worried about the effect on the Barrier Reef. 
Oils from different parts of the world differ appreciably in the proportions and varieties of hydrocarbons they contain. It is thought likely that any oil discovered on the Barrier Reef, if there is any oil there, would be similar to oil found at Moonie and possibly Bass Strait. Fortunately, or unfortunately, no oil seeps have been recorded along the reef, either because there is no oil present or because there has been no earthquake in times past to allow any oil that may be there to seep up to the ocean floor. We know that Moonie oil has a high petrol, kerosene and light oil content relative to the heavier crude oils that come from the Middle East. Like Bass Strait oil, Moonie oil contains almost no lubricating oils, tars or asphalts. There seems to be very little information on whether an oil with light fractions and low armatics, such as Moonie oil, is more toxic than oil with heavy fractions and high aromatics, such as the Middle East oil. This is crucial information in relation to Australian oils because the smaller molecules of the lighter fractions tend to be more poisonous because of their greater solubility in water. 
One of the great difficulties in discussing effects on marine eco-systems is the very wide range of sensitivities of the various animal and marine life found along our shores. Possibly as a result of millions of years of oil seeps, or entirely by chance, some marine organisms have developed surfaces that resist wetting by oil or can, in one way or another, shut themselves away from pollution. Others exude protective substances when they are confronted by oil. When we look at the weathering of any oil that might appear in the open sea, in the absence of wind, tides or currents it would be expected that there would be quite a large round slick. However, because of the action of winds and tides, it usually ends up in quite an elongated shek. It drifts naturally with the tides and currents. Weather conditions play a large part. Over the first day or so, depending on the weather, you can get a fair idea of what is going to happen to the slick. It is influenced by the air and water temperatures, the humidity at the time, wave action and so forth. Certain amounts of the oil can emulsify and hang in that emulsion a few inches below the surface. Some can even dissolve. Quite a lot- fortunately the more toxic substances- can evaporate, given the right conditions, in a day or two. There is also a possibility that some of the oil can sink to the sea floor. If any of the toxic substances remain they can, over a period of time, leak and cause some damage to marine life. They can also be dissipated, or their dissipation can be helped, by biodegradation. There is a wide range of bacteria, yeast, fungi and protozoa which actually are capable of breaking down the hydrocarbons. Eventually there may be a means of cultivating bacteria that can eat these hydrocarbons. I know this has been experimented with overseas. Then we can get away from the idea of using dispersants which themselves can be quite harmful. 
This biodegradation could be faster in the Great Barrier Reef waters because of the higher temperatures which prevail. One possible subeffect which we know little about, especially in the case of chronic spills, is the concentration of hydrocarbons which are in the food chain. We all know the problems associated with such things as mercury, DDT and chlorine when they get into the food chain and go right up the chain. With hydrocarbons, fortunately, some are maintained by the marine organisms. Some are also metabolised and excreted. So there is a breaking of the food chain. It is quite likely that the problems associated with mercury and DDT might not affect marine organisms when there is a large spill of hydrocarbon or crude oils. 
Getting back to the Barrier Reef and recognising the problem of oil spills, the maximum time of continental shelf reef exposure during low spring tides is considered to be one or two hours daily. During exceptionally low tides this may increase to two to four hours. Of course, the best part of the reef is on the slopes. It is there that the more luxuriant fish life is found, and that area is never exposed to air at any time. In other words, oil spills will not affect it. The area seen by tourists when they walk around the reef, if they are lucky enough, is by far the lesser of the reef areas in terms of beauty, animal life, coral growth and so on. It is generally accepted that at least 40 per cent to 60 per cent of the reef is never exposed to air. In other words, any oil spill would go right over the top. 
I said that emulsificanon occurs only in the top few inches of water. I think it was stated in the Royal Commission's report that from 40 per cent to 60 per cent of the reef is never exposed. At the lowest tide the maximum exposure is from two hours to four hours and the average exposure is one hour to two hours. Of course, if drilling on the reef is necessary because it is thought that there is oil underneath, it is quite feasible that those concerned would not have to drill through the reef but could stand off and go in at an angle. No one wishes to destroy this wonderland wantonly in any way. Corals make up a small area of the biomass of the reef and the continued health of the rest of the living area there depends on live coral. It provides food and helps to maintain a diversity of species. 
When looking at the effects on coral, it is necessary to look at the unfortunately small amount of work that has been done on assessing the effect of oil on the reef. Much drilling and oil production occurs in coral provinces right around the world. Strange as it may seem, having heard the sort of emotional talk that has gone on today, no well-established damage to reefs by oil can be quoted and drilling is carried out in South East Asia, the Middle East, the Red Sea, the southern United States and so on. There are about 8,000 off-shore wells around America and to date only 16 have had blowouts. Of those, 12 were gas well blowouts, which caused no pollution whatsoever, and only four were oil accidents. lt was only in the Santa Barbara case, which I will mention shortly, that any significant amount of oil escaped. Some biologists have experimented with oil on the Barrier Reef. Two biologists from the Queensland Department of Primary Industries have carried out a series of tests using Moonie oil, recognising that if any oil is there conceivably it could be of the same type as the oil at Moonie. The tests involved spraying up to 47 gallons of Moonie oil on a small portion of the reef in very shallow water and then watching the effect over a period of time. After three months, no harm to the reef was detected. Of course, that is really not enough to go on, and I return to what I said originally. The Australian Institute of Marine Science should have more money made available to it to carry out more work on this aspect. At face value, these experiments indicate a considerable resistance by Australian coral colonies to oil floating above and on them. The corals are able to excrete a type of mucus which cloaks them and gives them some protection for a time. If I could quote from the report of the Royal Commission, it states: 
Oil passing over the reef would be unlikely to settle more than momentarily on even the more exposed parts of the reef surface under the conditions of wave surge which normally prevail at the shelf edge. 
As I indicated previously, the area exposed is not exposed for any great length of time and a large area is never exposed. Strange as it may seem, it is estimated that 600,000 metric tons of oil seep to the surface throughout the world every year through natural seepage from the oilfields underneath. Areas of the highest potential damage contribute about 45 per cent of the worldwide seepage. The circum-Pacific area, which is the area of greatest volcanic and earthquake activity, contributes about 40 per cent of the world's total seepage, and of course the California coast is part of that area. The Red Sea and the Gulf of Suez are also noted for their corals, yet they contain a number of natural oil seeps. It is said of the 
Gulf of Suez that although beaches along the approaches to the Suez Canal are heavily coated with oil, with deposits up to 200 metres wide, corals growing in nearly two metres of water appear to be flourishing. 
On 28 January 1969 there was a blowout in the Union oil well in the platform in the Santa Barbara Channel, about which we have heard a great deal. The oil spill was not the first major spill to occur through either an off-shore drilling rig or a shipping mishap. The accident highlighted more than any other single event the pollution problem associated with the oil industry. It must be said that the Santa Barbara area also has natural oil seepage all the time. It is estimated that about 600 barrels a year seep to the surface there. The spill involved unrefined oil, in other words, crude oil, in an area of active oil seeps, and it occurred during a period of heavy fresh water rain run-off. The results of the spill have been documented and they indicate that after the spill it was apparent that animals in the inter-tidal area that were not covered by oil survived. Many species with calcareous shells also survived when covered by oil. Recolonisation commenced in the inter-tidal zone areas as soon as oil was washed from the sub-strata. Unfortunately, a lot of the plant and animal deaths that occurred were attributed to the oil spill when in fact they were already dead from the fresh water run-off caused by the high rainfall in the area at that time, and that has also been documented. Whether they died because of the low salinity or the high fresh water content or because of pesticides, in view of the fact that a lot of the citrus areas had been sprayed previously, is not known. Unfortunately, the deaths were attributed originally to the oil spill, but ultimately it was found that that was not so. 
The effect on marine life of detergents or dispersants, as they are now called, is not yet known, but it is thought that it could be quite deleterious and a better method should be found. Having mentioned that there are oil seeps in the area, it is quite conceivable that over the years the animal and plant life there have worked up some compatibility with oil and are able to live with it. The oil took some time to reach the shore, of course, and the toxic components of the oil would have evaporated by then. The Santa Barbara spill involved unrefined oil, and the  Torrey Canyon  and  Tampico,  two of the large tankers that went down, carried diesel oil as well as crude oil. The vastly different amounts of oil that come from a spill from a wrecked ship and from an oil blowout are worth noting. The supertanker  Amoco Cadiz,  which went down off the coast of 
Brittany, released 220,000 tonnes of oil. The  Torrey Canyon,  which went down off the coast of England, released 100,000 tonnes of oil. The blowout or the Ekofisk Bravo Oil platform in the North Sea which continued for some days released only 22,500 tons of oil. The Santa Barbara blowout released only 10,000 to 20,000 tons of oil. Honourable senators can see that we have a far greater problem with our shipping than we have from actual oil blowouts. I must confess that I was surprised at the difference between the amount of oil released from blowouts and that released from ships. 
Oil has a varying and quite disastrous effect on some of our marine organisms. Let me mention the bird life which I think suffers the most. We are all aware of the films that have been shown recently in Australia of people who are interested in bird life collecting the birds and trying to clean them up. Unfortunately oil spills will always have a bad and great effect on bird life. Less oil damage of course occurs in the open sea. The more important eco-systems are found in the shallow waters-in other words the intertidal areas- where oil pollution can be more persistent. This occurs right around the coast and not necessarily on the Great Barrier Reef. If oil drilling on the reef is to be considered a team of scientists from government departments, universities and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisations should look at the program and examine the problems of oil spills and their interaction with coral over a period. 
Let me sum up by saying that if the world runs short of oil the whole argument basically becomes academic. If it is proved that there is oil under the reef, if there is a vast shortage of oil and if another energy source has not been discovered then there is no way in the world that oil will not be sought under the reef. In any case, as I stated before there is no reason to drill through the Reef. Crude oil has less effect on the ecosystem than the diesel or refined products that could conceivably come out of a spill. As I have said, a team of scientists should look at the effect of oil spills on coral. What is more important is that the whole problem is basically academic. Even if we do not drill the reef for another thousand years the very thing that we fear could happen tomorrow, the next day or the day after because of all the shipping movements up and down the coast. We have a far greater problem on our plate because of ship movements around the world than we are ever likely to have from any oil drilling. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Recognising that daily we are confronted and affronted by the pollution of the mind by the media, we are also contending with physical pollution in that after reading some of our daily newspapers we are left with a black residue on our hands, the  Australian  being by far the worst offender. Can the Minister advise whether such residue is dangerous if absorbed through the skin? Should one wash one's hands after reading the said newspaper and before eating, to prevent ingestion and digestion of material from this newspaper? Until such time as the  Australian  cleans itself up, would it not be wise for the said newspaper to bear in bold plain print on the front page the caption: 'Warning: Reading this newspaper is hazardous'? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Regarding the use of 2,4,5-T in controlling many of our noxious weeds, particularly in open pasture conditions, but more importantly its exclusive ability to control brigalow regrowth, which of course is of great significance in central Qld, has our National Health and Medical Research Council been able to justify reports from the United States America on the supposed deleterious effect of this weedicide on human life? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It relates to the very heavy increase in the price of Avgas and the fact that approximately 50 per cent of the Avgas used in Australia is imported directly from Iran. As we can therefore expect more and possibly heavier price increases, will the Government consider intervening in the next Prices Justification Tribunal hearings to suggest that the price increase of Avgas be spread across the whole product range of the petroleum industry, thus alleviating the intolerable burden now being placed on a very vital part of our transport system? 
Is it your wish,  Senator Evans,  to take the two amendments to clause 37 together? 
-I would also like to be associated with the condolence motion. The earliest occasion on which I can remember  Sir Charles  Adermann was in the days of his radio Sunday School over station 4SB. He ran that Sunday school under the nom de plume of Uncle John. When I was a young fellow in the war time nobody travelled around much. That was one of my early associations with  Sir Charles  and the church.  Sir Charles  made a magnificent contribution to Australia which has been referred to by many speakers today. He stood tall wherever he went, not because of any great physical stature or giant intellect but because he was plain Charlie Adermann to everybody. Those of us who knew him respected him. Wherever he went his whole being reflected the Christ whom he sought to serve. That meant indignation where necessary, loyalty, tenacity and determination. More than that it reflected in his life the love, concern and compassion which he showed for his fellow men. My sympathies go to his wife and family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
Today we are debating a matter of public importance raised by  Senator Ryan-  the failure of the Government to clarify issues surrounding the proposed communications satellite for Australia. I sat in amazement and listened to  Senator Ryan  's contribution. I have heard  Senator Ryan  speaking previously on the domestic satellite situation and I must confess that I am often slow to catch on but today I realised at last that she does not know what the heck she is talking about. That was proved conclusively throughout her speech.  Senator Ryan,  a member of the front bench of the Opposition who seeks to speak at length and give direction to her party on communications, does not know what she is talking about. At one stage she used a minority report to give weight to her argument, a report brought out by the Department of Finance. Paragraph 2 on page 132 of the Report of the Commonwealth Government Task Force on a National Communications Satellite System reads as follows: 
In my view the improvements to Australia's communications capacity which could evolve from the basic model system are marginal improvements to a communications infrastructure which provides already a sophisticated, high quality service by world standards. 1 am not satisfied that it has been established that these marginal benefits could be provided necessarily at less cost by means of a satellite system. 
That is well written by a Department of Finance bureaucrat but to think that it would come from a person seeking to represent her party in the field of communications and to go out and talk to the people of Australia just leaves me cold. It is the sort of thing one would expect out of Sydney, 
Melbourne and Canberra but if the party of which  Senator Button  is a member wishes to attain the Treasury benches at the next election its members had better smarten up their footwork. I will refer to the Task Force's recommendations which appear in paragraph 9.22 on page 1 1 6 of the report. It stated: 
A system which can enhance Australia's defence communications, its aeronautical and maritime communications, its public telecommunications both national and international, its broadcasting services, which can offer high potential for improvements in the delivery of health care services, in education, in helping our Aboriginal settlements and the people of the remote outback, offers advantages which cannot be measured solely in financial terms. 
I cannot agree more. Basically that is what it is all about. For the first time we have the best chance of providing good quality communications for all Australians in the shortest time.  Senator Button  took the Government to task at one stage by saying that the communications satellite is only going to be of advantage to a small group of people. So what! Are they not as important as people in any other part of Australia? The fact that they have not got communications means that we should be working flat out to give it to them. In the minds of members of the Opposition it is only incidental that the people to whom we refer are the people who probably are doing more to produce the wealth of this country than any other section of the community. Yet, because they are a small group, it seeks to exclude them from the communications systems which we have. In paragraph 9.25 on page 116 the Task Force stated: 
Recalling that approximately 6 years would be required from the time a decision is taken to having a satellite system in service, the Task Force believes thai  further  delay will only serve to retard development of the nation's advanced technologies and exploitation of the unique capability of satellite communications for the benefit of Australia's business and social life into the 1990s or beyond. In light of the information contained in this report, this seems to be unthinkable. 
Indeed it is. As soon as it is technically possible we should be rectifying this position. One of the aspects that has been brought up is unemployment. All my reading about the proposal suggests that it would probably increase employment within the communications industry as new technology developed. It would be of great assistance to Australia in developing new technologies. We have proved that we can be world leaders in communications. We can be quite innovative in such matters. This development would give us the opportunity to prove that and to provide more employment. 
-Not with a satellite; of course not. But new technologies are always being developed, I will touch on that later as far as satellite communication is concerned. 
For the benefit of those who have been confused by  Senator Ryan's  rhetoric over the last few months I point out that in the first instance we will be using a relay satellite. We will not be manufacturing one and shooting it up. The satellite is already there. The Government has announced that the translators to be built over the next three years will not be using relay stations. In the first instance it was intended to use programs that had been transmitted, recorded and sent to the relay stations. That would have involved great cost. Also a considerable infrastructure would have been needed to keep tab of all the videotapes throughout the country to see that they were played at the right time and at the right relay station. By using spare transponders on the INTELSAT satellite, which is over the Pacific, we will be able to supplement our terrestrial system and all the translators that are set down for the three-year program will be able to provide instantaneous transmission of the programs that are being broadcast. We will be able to use the INTELSAT relay satellite in this way. I welcome such a move as it will provide greater television coverage to people in the more remote areas of our country. Any existing satellite system will work only with the current terrestrial system. Of course, satellites will help us to achieve the provision of a better service. 
It is important that we do not rush into this field until the technology is complete. I instance our entry into the colour television field. We could have rushed in and adopted one of the lesser systems. I think everyone agrees that the PAL system- the phase alternating line systemwhich Australia uses is second to none in the world. We could have rushed in and ended up with the National Television Standards Committee system- the NTSC system- which is used by Japan and the United States of America. It is conceded that this system is not of a standard comparable with the PAL system. By holding back and watching world developments we have the PAL system, which is second to none. I believe that we should do the same as far as our own domestic satellite is concerned. I would be very much against shooting up a satellite just to provide for extra television broadcasting. It is no use putting up a satellite until it is able to provide complete telephonic communication. That is a little more complicated than just putting a television receiver at the other end. One has to have suitable transmitters to send a signal back to the satellite and so forth. 
The whole purpose of our domestic satellite system is to provide not only for television broadcasting but also for telephonic communication and extra radio communication. Such a satellite should be used to transmit DATEL information to computers, to provide telex services and so forth. It is most important that we do not put up a satellite until it is capable of doing all those things. The satellite that we do put up will of necessity be a mulit-purpose satellite. It will be used for health, welfare, education, defence, communications and transport. It will be of great benefit particularly to people in remote and isolated areas. That is what the whole thing is all about. At present the working parties are looking at this proposal. They are still receiving input from people throughout the community. Although  Senator Ryan  has been to many conferences about this proposal she still has not grasped the significance of it. People are making inputs to the Government and the Task Force to ensure that we get the satellite we need so much for Australia. 

 Senator Chaney mentioned that we will be doing some experimental work towards the middle of this year with the Canadian Hermes satellite. The Canadians have agreed to move this satellite a little so that it can be used by Australia for direct broadcasting purposes. One of the problems with satellites such as INTELSAT is that they carry very low-powered transponders. I believe that the transponders have an output of only 4 or 5 watts. That, of course, is not good enough for telephonic communication. I understand that the Canadian Hermes satellite has transponders with an output of about 20 watts and that experiments are being carried out on transponders with an output of up to 100 watts. It is essential that we get that sort of output from these satellites so that we can have the two-way communications that we so desperately need. Remote homesteads will be able to use a very small parabolic antenna on the ground to pick up a signal. These antennas can be fixed. They will not require a tracking device that follows the satellite as it moves marginally in its orbit. It is essential that this new technology be developed fully so that smaller antennas can be used and ground stations can be constructed at the least cost. It is envisaged that the cost of ground stations at isolated townships and homesteads will be brought down to about $1,000 or less. I think it is important that this technology is fully developed before we put up a satellite. 
One of the matters of concern is the direct broadcasting of television. I must say that I have not yet run into anybody who agrees with this proposition. I have had discussions with Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd, which basically is not interested in transmitting from Sydney or Melbourne and blanketing the whole country. It is interested only in using the satellite to provide communications to regional stations so as to give them better access to the programs that are available in the metropolitan areas. These stations in country areas will be able to choose programs transmitted by three major networks. Once the contracts are signed people will be able to pick up simultaneous broadcasting by the domestic satellite. It is important that direct broadcasting is made available to people in the more remote areas. But there is a  Catch 22  situation in that we will have to be able to provide for the regional broadcasters and let them maintain their autonomy and look after their regional interests whilst providing direct broadcasting to people in the more remote areas who will not be able to receive television by ordinary terrestrial means. 
I believe it is of utmost importance that this proposal be considered thoroughly and completely if it is to be of advantage to all the people of Australia. I think the proposal is clear to most people who have studied it. However, it seems that  Senator Ryan  and  Senator Button  are a little confused about it. I do not think there is any doubt about what this domestic satellite should be able to achieve. I reiterate that it should provide not only for television but also for telephonic communication, radio broadcasting, DATEL information, telex and so forth. The satellite should provide a blanket cover for Australia. As I have said, it should be capable of use in the fields of health, welfare, education, defence, ordinary communications, transport and so forth. It is also most important that we have a satellite to assist us in the event of a national disaster, such as a cyclone. We would then be less susceptible to loss of communications during such a disaster. We would be able to carry on with our communications in the way that a country as modern as Australia should. I reject completely  Senator Ryan's  motion. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to an incident concerning a Trans World Airlines stretched Boeing 727 aircraft on a flight from New York to Minneapolis in early April. Reports indicate that this aircraft swerved to the right, did a complete barrel roll and nosedived for a distance of approximately 30,000 feet during which, it is even suggested it broke the sound barrier- all of which are manoeuvres for which this aircraft was not designed. Have the Department of Transport or airlines operating this type of aircraft received any information as to the cause of this incident? If so, would it necessitate any change in the operational or maintenance procedures for these aircraft? 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Education, concerns a report in today's  Australian  showing that Queensland school children are the brightest in Australia and perform better in almost all categories of tests involving the traditional three Rs. It is obvious that this high standard is reflected in the majority of Queensland representatives in this chamber. Will the Minister advise whether his Department can give a definitive reason for this higher standard? Are the results being studied to see whether there are any advantages in the Queensland system that could be used in the other States? Will the Minister agree that instead of the gratuitous advice so freely given to Queensland by those honourable senators who oppose the State they would be better advised to heed Queensland and her contribution to the Commonwealth as this would be to their edification and the ultimate benefit of Australia as a whole? 
There is no point of order. There will be time at a later stage for you to make your point. 
But of course  Senator Jessop  claimed tonight that he drafted it himself. He did not mention  Senator Bishop.  But he did on 16 November. He misled the Senate either on 1 6 November or tonight. He wenton to say:   . . and signed by the senators who attended that deputation and by  Mr Wallis  and  Mr Calder  who also attended. We wrote to the Minister for Transport: 
In view of the importance of the Stuart Highway to the development of South Australia and the Northern Territory and the unanimous concern expressed by the delegation today that additional Commonwealth funds be provided to accelerate the planning and construction of this road - 
Referring to the Stuart Highway-  we respectfully request that you make a further approach to Cabinet for a special allocation for this purpose. 
But further on in his speech when he was put under the hammer- I refer to page 2131 of the Senate  Hansard  of 16 November- referring to  Senator Bishop, Senator Jessop  s'aid: 
If he wanted to highlight the Stuart Highway in particular, I would be happy to support him. 
What was the motion that  Senator Bishop  put to the Senate? The motion stated: 
That the Committee is of the opinion that the-Australian Government should provide special funding to enable a continuing program of construction of the Stuart Highway to be undertaken as unanimously requested by the recent representative deputation to the Minister for Transport from South Australia and the Northern Territory. .  
That is also the tenor of the letter that  Senator Jessop  wrote to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon.  He went on to say in that debate-- 
There is no point of order. 
If he - 
He was referring to  Senator Bishop-  wanted to highlight the Stuart Highway in particular, I would be happy to support him. 
I have read out the motion put down by  Senator Bishop.  Later  Senator Jessop  went on to say: 
. I would be happy to support him. As the motion is worded now it really weakens the argument that I am putting to the Minister on a national basis. 
He said a few words before that that he would support  Senator Bishop  if he specified the Stuart Highway. Talk about an acrobat! Then he said: 
I will continue to help  Senator Cavanagh  in his efforts to get this highway built. I have helped  Mr Wallis  . . . 

 Mr Wallis does not think you have helped him.  Senator Jessop  went on to say: 
I certainly will give my total support to anything that they care to do, provided it will influence the Government on a national basis to change its policy. 
Of course,  Senator Jessop  completely turned around. He said further: 
Wc cannot just pick off roads here and there, willy-nilly. Wc have tried. We have supported the idea of special funding for that road but we have been rejected by the Government on that basis. 
Of course,  Senator Jessop  repeatedly stands in this Parliament and says that he is a man of independent mind, that  he  is not bound by party policy. Why does he go into the electorate of Grey and repeatedly tell the people at Kingoonya and Coober Pedy and places further north, that he is fighting for the Stuart Highway? He was given the opportunity in this Parliament on that very day to vote for a motion put down by  Senator Bishop  but he walked out of the House along with his colleague  Senator Kilgariff. 
The communication needs of Alice Springs and in particular the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway are of prime importance in the Centre,  Mr Sinclair  said today. 
The allocation of monies expressly for National Highway Construction forms part of the regular Commonwealth contributions to State Governments. Priorities given by the South Australian Government, however, have meant that there has been little work done on upgrading the Stuart Highway. The Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, has, however, firmly committed the Country/Liberal Parly Government to commence work on the reconstruction ofthe Stuart Highway in 1978. 
After discussing the issue with  Mr Sam  Calder, M.P., and  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff. I believe it necessary to identify a special fund allocation specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway. 
This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the National program and for allocation at their direction, there would be  a  specific sum provided to up-grade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
Those solemn promises were made by  Mr Sinclair  to win votes for  Mr Calder  in the Northern Territory. They were not even worth the paper they were written on because we know that they have been repudiated.  Senator Jessop  has proved that tonight by trying to vilify  Senator Bishop  in this chamber. The Government that he belongs to- he says that he is proud to be a member of it- has ducked out on another promise. I will look at some of the vilifications used by  Mr Nixon  against the South Australian Minister,  Mr Virgo.  In a Press release issued only last Thursday,  Mr Nixon  said: 
It seemed clear that  Mr Virgo  had been intent on concentrating finances on the South Eastern Freeway, between Adelaide and the Swanport Bridge, at the expense of the Stuart Highway and people living in the north of South Australia. 
I am proud to be able to say to  Senator Jessop  that only this morning the south eastern freeway was opened and the new bridge over the River Murray at Swanport just below Murray Bridge where I live was opened also. I am proud that the South Australian Government had the common sense to go ahead and complete the work which was started years ago by one man, Tom Playford, of whom honourable senators opposite claim to be proud. I refer to the construction of a freeway between Adelaide and the River Murray. The South Australian Labor Government was proud to carry out this work.  Mr Sinclair  was suggesting that we should cut off that job in midstream and shift all the equipment to the Stuart Highway. 
Honourable senators opposite concentrate all their remarks on the Stuart Highway at present. They conveniently forget about the history of the Eyre Highway. What did honourable senators opposite do to see that that road was sealed when they were in government? They did absolutely nothing. It took the Dunstan Government to say to  Mr McMahon,  'If you will not carry out your responsibilities we will have to do it out of State funds'. It was only then that the Government of which  Senator Jessop  is a member came forward and made the money available. It was done but we had to threaten the Government to get it done. Honourable senators opposite cannot advance a reasonable argument. They argue that they are in favour of the sealing of the Stuart Highway but their argument is full of holes. 
What do we find in the announcement by  Mr Nixon  which is attached to a statement made the other day? He has announced a 7 per cent increase in funds to the South Australian Government when we know full that we have an inflation rate of 8Vi per cent at present. By the end of the financial year it will be nearer to 10 per cent. In real terms, South Australia will get considerably less money from the Federal Government for its roads works than it is entitled to receive. In the few minutes left to me, I want to refer to comments made by  Mr Virgo  in reply to that statement by  Mr Nixon.  An article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of Friday, 25 May 1979 reads: 
In Adelaide last night,  Mr Virgo  said he was 'amazed and appalled ' by the Federal Minister's statements. 
It's incredible, '  Mr Virgo  said. 
I have just announced that SA is seeking his permission to spend more than a quarter of its $16m Federal national highways construction grant on the Stuart Highway in the coming financial year. 
More than a quarter on one of our many highways- and he wants us to spend still more. 
It's unbelievable. I'm glad that the people of our Far North are too clever not to see right through his pontificating and smoke-screening. 
They'll laugh him right out of the desert.  Senator Jessop  knows that they will if he ever gets to Coober Pedy to talk to the people. I don't know whether  Senator Jessop  has been in tough with the people at Coober Pedy after the abortive visit last week. He went to great pains to tell us they went by road to a certain place. I ask  Senator Jessop  whether that was a sealed road or a dirt road? 
In Adelaide, the South Australian Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  yesterday criticised the allocation, and warned that the States roadworks program might have to be cut. 
He said  Mr Nixon  had not yet told the South Australian Government of its allocation . . . 
We have had to rely on the media for the information,  Mr Virgo  said. 
That is what always happens. We find  Mr Nixon  and  Senator Jessop  running to the Press with statements about what should be done in South Australia and what money is allocated without any consultation with  Mr Virgo. Senator Jessop  and  Mr Nixon  are prepared only to criticise and vilify the South Australian Minister. If they talked to the people in the country, they would realise that  Mr Virgo  is doing a good job. It is not only the Stuart Highway that has to be sealed; we have many other highways. He gives funds to them on a priority basis. The people in the 
Coober Pedy area can rest assured that in time  Mr Virgo  will see that they get a sealed highway despite the ramifications and the false promises made by this Government. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  today under the byline of one Andrew Kruger which refers to a meeting of Government senators yesterday morning. He states: 

 Senator P. Rae (Lib.. Tas.) and  Senator A.  Missen (Lib., Vic.) made it clear they would not tolerate 'penny-pinching' measures . . . 
Has the Fourth Estate developed some extraordinary powers which we mere mortals cannot attain? Is  Senator Missen,  whose body is overseas, currently here in spirit and communicating with the media? Did  Senator Rae,  who has no voice because of a heavy dose of influenza and whose only communication with his colleagues is by nodding or shaking his head, shake his head so profoundly in the meeting that the shock waves were transmitted to and interpreted in the Press Gallery? If the Press can develop and refine its new-found powers, can we expect not only more accurate but also even prophetic reporting? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Bearing in mind the recent airline disaster and the resultant inspections and recognising that DC 10 aircraft are currently operating with two different power plants, namely, the General Electric CF6 and the Pratt and Whitney JT9D, has recent inspection shown any commonality in corrosion and fatigue cracks on engine pods, pylons and wing attachments per se, or just on those in use on one engine type? Have inspections shown any corrosion or fatigue cracking on other aircraft using underslung engines and /or the alternative Rolls Royce RB2 1 1 power plant or on engine pods, pylons or wing attachments supplied by any other manufacturer? 
I hope that I can carry on and not stir things up too much tonight. I also would like an early night. However, the night is still young and  Senator Gietzelt  sitting on the other side does not look so beautiful. Insofar as the Australian Security and Intelligence Organization Bill is concerned, I do not think that I can let  Senator Gietzelt  's remarks go without comment. It did have a pretty fair debate in this chamber. It was quite noticeabe to a lot of us that once it reached the 
Committee stage it really got down to legal technicalities with the legal men on either side of the House making most of the running while we mere mortals just sat- we did not altogether listen- and put up with it. I think that in fairness the ASIO Bill got a pretty good hearing and was debated quite well in the Senate, which befits the Senate in its review responsibility. 

 Senator Gietzelt has said that he and I seem to get up regularly on Bills such as this, the Qantas Airways Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1979. On 3 May last year I think I followed  Senator Gietzelt  on a similar Bill. I recall that I spoke of the commonality which a lot of our airlines seem to be hung up on. Indeed, I went into the fact that Qantas Airways Ltd is hung up on the Boeing 747 with the Pratt and Whitney engine. I believe that I recommended it should be looking a bit further afield and that the RB2 11 -Rolls Royce engine should be one power plant looked at. I am not vain enough to think that each board member of Qantas received a copy of my speech and sat down and studied it. 
I am vain enough to think that they should have, but at long last they have gone away from their commonality hangups and with the two aircraft which are the subject of this Bill it is noticeable that they are buying them with the RB2 1 1 engines, and for a lot of the benefits that I indicated in the speech last year. I believe that Aircraft No. 18 or No. 19 will be a combi, which will be used for a lot of freight work to the Continent, particularly Frankfurt, and will also be used on the American run quite often. That bodes well for our international trade and for our ability to export and import goods that we need pretty quickly. The RB2 1 1 engine, as I said last year, is a more fuel-efficient engine than the Pratt and Whitney JT9D. In this day and age when we are thinking very much of fuel efficiency, that means a lot. It also means that Qantas, as British Airways has been doing with similar type aircraft, can actually make one-stop runs to England or the Continent from Western Australia or two-stop runs to Sydney. I think there is an extra range of somewhere in the vicinity of 1,200 kilometres and also a slight increase in speed. 
This does have a trade-off because quite often engine damage is done on take-off with the ingestion of birds or any other objects that are hanging around just above the ground. Gravel or stones might be on the runway. An engine is also, as you realise, operating under full power for take-off. There is more wear and tear on the undercarriage. The longer you can keep the plane in the air and the fewer stops you make you will get more efficiency in the long run and the passengers will arrive at their destination sooner. Because of the savings that are attributed to the fewer stops and greater fuel efficiency, it obviously has a benefit to the passengers. While we are achieving more benefits and efficiency we can keep the fares down. 
It is also noticeable when referring to the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that Qantas also plans to increase the number of saleable seats by 455 across its present fleet of Boeing 747 aircraft by the modification of the in-flight galleys to enable more seats to be fitted to each aircraft and by modifying the existing engines to give more thrust to cope with the extra payload. I believe that Qantas is already modifying the JT9D aircraft in its fleet to achieve that extra thrust. This literally means putting an extra aircraft into the fleet without having to buy it. Of course in the long term, or even in the short term, there will be benefits for the passengers. With fuel costs rising and other costs of running an airline rising, the only way airlines are able to achieve economies is by increasing their load factors. I think that Qantas should be commended for that. I am not quite sure how comfortable the passengers will be, but you cannot have it all. You either have the cheap air fares and you have that type of seating or if you want to have a little more room you have to be prepared to pay a little more. 
Quite often the domestic airlines have been given a serve so far as their fare structure is concerned by comparing it with that of the international airlines. Unfortunately it is not quite that easy. It is almost like comparing chalk and cheese. As I understand it, the average passenger leg that Qantas has is about 5,000 kilometres, whereas the average for domestic airlines in Australia is about 800 kilometres. Bearing in mind all that I said about fewer stops it soon becomes obvious that one cannot work a domestic airline nearly as economically as one can work an international airline. The more stops, the more landings, the more take-offs, the more fuel one uses and so on it goes. It is far cheaper to have a large aircraft up at 30,000 or 40,000 feet at cruise thrust than for it to be continually landing and taking off. It is hardly a fair comparison. 
I think that the domestic airlines in Australia do a pretty fair job. Any comparisons that I have made of our standard economy fares against those of the United States of America or Europe indicate that the travelling public in Australia are served pretty well. I am not saying that more economies could not be achieved and better service given. We will probably never reach that stage. Australia is burdened with the problem of far too small a population and too vast distances to be traversed. That problem will be with us for a long time to come yet. When one considers the fare structure, we have been pretty well served. We do not have the population to run a shuttle service so that as soon as a plane is full the door is shut and away it goes. That is one method by which the Americans have achieved a lot of their cheap fares, although I understand that with all the talk of deregulation in America they are starting to back off a bit. 
America had a very complex fare structure, with all its cheap fares, 'Apex' fares, 'Budget' fares and so on. If one rang up, it took a considerable time to get an answer as to what would be the best fare to choose. I believe that they had to put on a large number of booking clerks or reservation clerks to handle the inquiries. 
But computers still have to be manned. They had to put on a lot more staff and the economies were lost. I understand that at this stage Australia has a better fare structure system than the United States of America. Unfortunately, as would be expected with deregulation, the small centres that were served by the major airlines are no longer being served. The airlines are racing to get the heavy density routes and so get the money that is offered there. There are a number of problems with complete deregulation. I would hate to see it brought into Australia just willy-nilly. A lot of areas would not get the service they are getting now, or would not get a service at all. 
A lot of people do not realise that safety does not come cheap either. The ability of Australian airlines to deliver a person safely to his destination is without equal. But as I said it does not come cheap. We are world leaders in the maintenance of our aircraft, our engineering, our air traffic control, and so on. I think that is one thing that people should be considering. 
Qantas, as  Senator Gietzelt  has intimated, gets a fair bashing by the public at large but it must be said that it does a lot for Australia. It is our flag carrier. As well as the money it makes from the passengers and freight it carries, in the last financial year it brought in $43m from the services it provides to other airlines by way of engineering, catering and handling. Qantas employs in excess of 13,000 people, so it makes a contribution to our overall economy. The fact that it is an Australian airline means that we do have something which enables us to negotiate with other countries. If we did not own our own airline we would have no ability to negotiate. We would be at the mercy of other airlines and would be told what fares we would pay. 
I do not mind going in to bat for Qantas every time these Bills come up. Certainly there is always room for improvement. The purists would like to see Qantas owned by free enterprise. It does not worry me whether the Government owns it or free enterprise owns it but the fact that the Government owns it means that it does not get any undue benefits. It gives me great pleasure on this occasion to support Qantas and to commend the Bill.  (Quorum formed). 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw attention to a statement made in an adjournment debate by  Senator Coleman  at 2.16 a.m. on Thursday, 31 May, in which she informed honourable senators that a  Mr Alarico  Fernandes the former Fretilin Minister for Information, was murdered by the Indonesians by being bound hand and foot, taken up in a helicopter and pushed out. I also refer to a report in today's  Canberra Times  that a  Mr Alarica  Fernandes is alive and well. Do both reports refer to the same person? If so, which is true? 
We are now debating the National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Bill. I am sure, sir, that you, as an ex-railwayman along with myself, would agree it is very seldom we get a chance to extol the virtues of the railway system and the role it can play in our transport. The Bill does provide for the upgrading of the major networks. It provides for the introduction of centralised traffic control and for the extension of the crossing loops on the Sydney-Brisbane section. Centralised traffic control, as well as helping with the handling of trains, also means that in a lot of cases we have not got to place men in isolated situations working around the clock. The trains are quite well handled by one man who sits beside a computerised console in civilisation. It does preclude the railways having to put men in these isolated conditions. The trains are handled far more efficiently and far more economically. The extension of the crossing loops, of course, means that far longer trains can be handled. 
I understand that the physical condition of the Kalgoorlie to Perth section of the railway network is deteriorating rapidly and the money will rehabilitate and upgrade the line to the 66 kilogram per metre standard. There is to be an increase in the all up weight of trains from 800 tonnes-900 tonnes to 1,100 tonnes on the  Mel,  bourne to Sydney section of the line. Also there will be an increase from 1,000 tonnes to 1,400 tonnes on the Melbourne to Serviceton section as well as the implementation of centralised traffic control. The Adelaide to Serviceton section will also be provided with centralised traffic control and extension of the crossing loops. 
I note that very little will be done to assist Queensland in the initial stage of this legislation. I guess this is because the national network stops at Brisbane. However, in reality Queensland has a railway system of its own which consists of approximately 30,000 kilometres of rail. Clause 4 (2) of the Bill states: 
The Minister may, by notice published in the  Gazette,  declare a railway line (other than a railway line referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) that he considers to be of national importance to be a main railway line for the purposes of this Act. 
My inquiries indicate that this provision covers the Queensland situation where vast amounts of freight are handled by rail and where export industries use the Queensland railway network. In many instances meat from as far north as Townsville is sent in containers through to Sydney for shipment overseas. I think Queensland can take comfort in the fact that its peculiar situation is covered and that the legislation will not apply only to the railway line into Brisbane from the south. 
The movement of freight, and I suppose passengers, by rail is one of the most efficient means of transport in terms of fuel usage. I think everyone is becoming more conscious of the use of fuel in this day and age. I would like to quote a scale, which unfortunately is not in kilojoules, which is the modern term, but in British thermal units to show how fuel efficient railways are. The scale shows the amount of energy needed to carry one tone of freight one mile. An aircraft needs 42,000 BTUs, a truck 2,800 BTUs, a waterway 680 BTUs a railroad 670 BTUs and a pipeline 450 BTUs. So we can see that railways are the most fuel efficient method of moving heavy freight, and are not far behind in respect of passenger traffic. I must say that diesel electric locomotives are very efficient although, of course, we must question the wanton use of distillate when we consider the large amounts of coal that are available in Australia. I do not mean that we should go back to the old steam engine, as much as a few purists like me might like to do an occasional trip on an old steam engine. I must say that in my condition now I would not like to do such a trip too often. 
It must be said that the old steam engine with the reciprocating rods on the side was a most inefficient method of rail transport and fuel usage, but I do look to coal as a means of generating electricity for use by trains. I think that Australia with its vast supplies of coal must look more to this source of energy. Electrical energy is not the most efficient method because it is necessary to convert heat energy to mechanical energy to electrical energy, transmit it and then convert electrical energy back to mechanical energy. Under such a process there is energy loss all along the line. However, much more must be done in regard to the use of electric trains in Australia bearing in mind the fact that coal can be used for the generation of electricity. 

 Senator Gietzelt dwelt at length basically on the road versus rail argument. I think it must be said, irrespective of the amount of traffic that is carried by trucks today- and I go back to what I said- that the railway is still the most fuel efficient method. It must be recognised that even though trucks may be in quite many cases quicker and more efficient in terms of handling small units of freight, we will get to the stage where because of fuel considerations railways will be preferred. The ideal situation is when large transport operators such as Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd and Mayne Nickless Ltd operate in conjunction with the railways. They act as the consigners and distribute at the other end but the railways cart the freight from point A to point B. This is happening now in Queensland, and I understand that it is happening with increasing intensity between Melbourne and Sydney. Another way of moving freight is by the piggy-back system, where the trucks drive on to flat cars and are carried to their destination by the railways. 
-Yes, like the Nullarbor. That is a good example. We have to look very seriously at all of our modes of transport in terms of the most efficient use of fuel. At best, Australia could supply only 80 per cent of its fuel requirements. We will have to look at importing increasing amounts of fuel from overseas in the future. It is essential that we look at the most fuel-efficient methods of transport. There is no reason in the world why the railways cannot operate in conjunction with private enterprise and do it most efficiently. The railways have proved that they can carry freight efficiently from point A to point B and that they provide by far the best method of carrying bulk cargoes. I instance the carriage of iron ore in Western Australia; the carriage of the products from Mount Isa Mines Ltd; the carriage of coal to the power stations and to ports for our large export industry. Far from accepting the attitude of some of the prophets of doom in regard to the railways, I see a great future for them. They have a tremendous future. They have a lot going for them, but that does not mean that they can just go along in the old manner. Of course they have to update their methods, and this Bill goes some way towards doing that. I have instanced centralised traffic control, with more radio communication between trains and control, the computerised handling of freight, and the making and breaking of trains in shunting yards. All these things are in the future. We are going to need them and need them desperately. 
In Queensland the railways have come in for some serious criticism because recently they have had to handle large numbers of stock. Unfortunately, as in every instance like this, stock die along the track. Nobody likes it, it is just a fact of life. What most people do not realise is that some stock die when they are being walked to the rail head. Some stock die when they are being transported by road. But for some unknown reason the Press seems to have fastened on to the fact that a few cattle die in train shipments that may carry 400, 500, 600 head of cattle. It is unfortunate that it happens, but that is certainly no reason to knock the railways. When large numbers of stock are being moved to markets, as is happening at present, there is no way in the world that any other form of transport could handle the numbers. The knockers ought to take a good look at the position. Instead of knocking the railways, they should give them all the support they can. Railways are the means of transport of the future. I support the Bill and commend it to honourable senators. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and refers to a  Nationwide  program emanating from Melbourne on 30 July in which it was stated that the South Australian Government had released a report concerning death by cancer of former mine workers at Radium Hill. Both  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Coleman  alluded to that report in a debate in this chamber on 29 August. I ask: Is there such a report? If so, has the report been released to the public? Has the Federal Minister for Health seen the report? If so, does the report have any application to present day uranium mining? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to a question I asked in this chamber on Tuesday, 18 September, in which I referred to the  Nationwide  program of 30 July in which it was stated that the South Australian Government had released the report on the deaths caused by cancer of former miners at the uranium mine at Radium Hill. I also mentioned that  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Coleman  had referred to the report in speeches on 29 August. At the conclusion of Question Time  Senator Cavanagh  stated in a personal explanation that in his original speech he did not claim that the report existed but that an inquiry had been conducted and that a report should be made available, although with the change of government in South Australia it may be that a report will never be released. I ask the Minister: Following the change of government, do we know anything more of the report? Is the statement made by  Senator Cavanagh  as a result of that inquiry that 'it has definitely proved that since 1960-- 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee F on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1979- 80 and the departmental expenditure under the Advance to the Minister for Finance for the year 1978-79 together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave -I table additional information received by Estimates Committee F and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfuly showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian women as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representatives without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council'. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Senate Estimates Committee F and seek leave to have it incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-by leave- I table further additional information received by Estimates Committee F. I seek leave to have it incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I present the following petition from 13 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian women as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representatives without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council '. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-The Commonwealth Government first became involved in civil aviation in 1920. Even then it was found necessary to control aviation, and so the Air Navigation Act was introduced. Charges were not really made until 1 2 August 1 947, when they were imposed by regulation under the Air Navigation Act. The regulation was challenged because some sections of the industry were paying charges and some were not. A conference was held, ultimately everything settled down and the Air Navigation (Charges) Act commenced to operate on 16 December 1952. Of course, ever since then we have had amendments to the Air Navigation (Charges) Act. Air navigation charges for international operations were provided for at the Convention on International Civil Aviation held at Chicago, United States of America, in December 1944. A quick look at the positions in the countries of the world provides us with the fact that most countries accept the need for air navigation charges and, indeed, are accepting the need for almost full cost recovery, at least for international services. 

 Senator MacGibbon has rightly touched on some of the problems. He referred to the fact that there does not seem to be an audit to determine whether we are getting the best value for our money. He instanced different aircraft weight categories. I cannot help but think of the difference between the categories of light and heavy aircraft as basically being a cut-off point of 5,700 kilograms. Irrespective of whether an aircraft is made without any structural limitations up to a weight of about 6,500 kilograms, it will be certified only up to a weight of 5,700 kilograms as being a light aircraft. That is done for the pure and simple reason that the 5,700 kilogram cut off point was arrived at many years ago because it was half the weight of a DC3. We are still hung up on that idea. I think that there should be an audit of how our money is being spent. 
Our Department of Transport examiners of airmen are quite competent, good airmen who are keen on their jobs. Yet for some unknown reason we send them to the United States of America to become endorsed to examine airmen flying commercial aircraft such as the DC9 and Boeing 727. They come back to Australia and are quite unable to keep up their flying hours. We find that the men they are examining have far more flying hours, far more experience and, I suppose, one could say that they are more competent than those who are examining them. Therefore, I think that there is a need for an audit of how our money is being spent and how it can best be spent under the Act. 
Be that as it may, we have a cost recovery system under the air navigation charges. Although there would be disagreement on the method of cost recovery, I think everybody agrees that the industry has to bear some of the costs. Many of the charges within the Department of Transport are attributable to cost recovery and some are non-attributable. For example in 1977-78, 90 per cent of the Airways Operations Division's costs were attributable, whereas 100 per cent of, 
Air Transport Policy Division's costs were nonattributable. Within the airways operation division, 100 per cent of the costs of the operational service branch was attributable whilst the total costs of the environmental and security branch were non-attributable. So there are pretty clearly defined sections which are attributable and nonattributable to cost recovery. 
Among the factors taken into consideration for the cost recovery are the cost of sealed runways to all sectors, that is done by reference to the runway length and the number of aircraft movements on the runway and the cost of terminal buildings to international and domestic operators. Where there are separate terminals, the costs are directly allocated to each sector; where there are joint terminals, it is done on a passenger basis. Also taken into consideration are the cost of navigation aids, air traffic control and flight services and so on. The formula, complex though it might be, seeks to be fair to all concerned. One thing many people do not realise is that the excise on aviation fuel is a fully attributable revenue against the cost recovery. The air navigation charges make up about 4 per cent of the full operating costs of any airline and about 16 per cent of the direct operating costs of a particular type of aircraft. It has already been mentioned that the increase will probably add about 60c to the cost of a Brisbane-Sydney air fare. 
I have, in previous speeches touched on the many problems Australia has in communication and transport. We are a vast nation with a very small population. Not only do we have a small population but also the location of that population adds to our problems. Centres of dense population are located on the eastern seaboard. The Commonwealth owns 82 airfields and 201 airfields are financed on a local ownership basis, making a total of 283 airfields financed one way or another by the taxpayer serving a population of about 14 million people. In my State of Queensland, which has a smaller population than Sydney- this figure is off the top of my head- eight airfields capable of accommodating jet aircraft operate every day of the week at a not inconsiderable cost. So we are bedevilled and we will be bedevilled for many years to come with the problems associated with having a small population, the distribution of that population and the vast distances which have to be traversed. Australia does have unique problems in that respect. 
I was interested to read a scale of cost recovery for each international passenger. I understand that the situation with domestic travel is much the same as for international travel, but I do not have the figures for that. After talcing into account consumer price index changes, air navigation charges, per passenger, have actually been coming down since 1969. The figure for 1969-1 shall use that as a base figure- was $7.4 for each international passenger. It is now down to about $6.2 seasonal adjusted, for each international passenger. Obviously our Department of Transport has been doing its work in trying to keep down those costs. We hope it can keep doing that. 
We are often criticised for our high air navigation and landing charges. In Australia the charges are made in one hit, whereas overseas quite often many charges have to be paid. I illustrate the situation this way: A Boeing 747 aircraft landing at Sydney would be subject to a charge of $2,764. The landing charge for that aircraft at Heathrow would be $709, but there would be an additional charge of $1,722 for passenger services related to the provision of terminal facilities and the aerobridge, a security charge of $488 and navigation aid and control fees of $244. For a trip from Europe to Bahrain there would be navigation aid and control fees of $ 1 ,676. The charges for arrival at Heathrow in summer- they are less in winter- total $4,839. The charges for departure are somewhat different- they total $2,994-making a total charge of $7,833 for arrival and departure at Heathrow in summer. Most people do not realise that. If they do, they do not mention it when they seek to subject the Australian system of charging to some of the unfair criticism to which we are becoming rather used. 
We are often stated to have the highest air fares in the world. That is a patently wrong assumption on any analysis. In the United States of America, air fares are subjected to an 8 per cent tax, but that is not obvious in the air fares per se. In order to recover a portion of the cost of providing aviation facilities, a principal tax of 8 per cent is imposed on the value of airline tickets for domestic use. Many countries have various ways of recovering costs. We are no different from people in any other country. Ours is a once only charge, which is very easily defined and very easily seen, whereas in other countries the charges are hidden. 
The issue which exercised the mind of the two previous speakers in this debate was that of general aviation. General aviation has played and will continue to play a tremendous part in the servicing of the needs of people going about their normal work in inland Australia. It is not now playing as great a part in the development of inland Australia as it has in the past, although it is playing a fair role in the development of mining industries.  Senator MacGibbon  touched on the question of cost recovery for general aviation. He mentioned all the attributes of general aviation and all the problems associated with it. Of course, a light aircraft does not need concrete two feet thick on which to land and it does not need 10,000 feet of runway. But, as I understand the situation, all those things are taken into consideration. 
In 1977-78 the cost attributable to general aviation was $60.8 m and the cost recovered was $9.7m. The recovery rate was about 15.9 per cent. I have no hangups about that recovery rate at all, recognising full well the role that general aviation plays in Australia today. I welcome the fact that a study into general aviation is being carried out under the auspices of the Australian Aviation Industry Advisory Council and I await its report with interest. We can then, in fairness, attribute costs to general aviation. We will know more about whether general aviation is being treated fairly. I think it should be recognised that the Government takes into consideration the fact that general aviation is a community service. I believe that it should do so and that it should continue to do so. The Government should recognise that the community should pay a fair bit towards general aviation 's existence. 

 Senator Gietzelt, on behalf of the Labor Party, has moved an amendment which I find rather ironic because some of the highest increases in cost recovery or air navigation charges for general aviation occurred under the regime of the Labor Government. In 1974-75, the Labor Government actually recovered 17 per cent of costs from general aviation. But more significant is the fact that as of 12 December 1973, all general aviation aircraft weighing 9,000 kilograms or less incurred a cost increase of 100 per cent. On 1 December 1974 another 50 per cent increase was imposed on general aviation. So it is rather ironic that  Senator Gietzelt  should come into this chamber and lambast us for all we are doing to general aviation. It indicates the very short memory he has of what his Government did to general aviation during its reign. 
I must mention the meteorological services when considering the problems associated with cost recovery. I think that the costs attributed to the airline industry are more than a fair share and I hope that they can be looked at very shortly. A lot of people use meteorological services and do not pay anything for them. But the aviation industry is hit very heavily in this regard, and unfairly so. Curfews are another matter that must be considered. The airlines rightly claim that they cannot use the air facilities at all times. I hope that when the wide bodied aircraft come into service the Government will bite the bullet about some of these ridiculous curfews and abandon them. It is a well-known fact that aircraft such as the airbus, which has been mentioned lately, has a noise footprint something similar to the Lockheed Electra and yet the Electra does not incur any penalties curfew-wise. Unfortunately, a lot of people who live near airports seem to think when they look up and see an aircraft that just because it is big it is a lot noisier; but this is not borne out by facts. If we are going to have air navigation charges, I think we have to look at where the best benefits can be obtained. 
Dare I mention, as a Queenslander- I am sure most people here would be disappointed if I did not- Brisbane Airport. I must be critical of the submissions put recently to the Standing Committee on Public Works by the airlines. I was not at the Committee hearings relating to Brisbane Airport but from reading about them in the newspapers, I have not seen or heard of such short-sighted submissions in all my life as those put in by the airlines. They even flew in the face of the statistics, including those concerning current increases in air traffic, that have been compiled by the Department of Transport over a long period. It is obvious that if the Brisbane Aiport is updated more international tourists will be attracted to Australia. Surveys have indicated that the two things most people visiting Australia want to see are Ayers Rock and the Great Barrier Reef; yet the planes carrying these people land in either Sydney or Melbourne. We have a problem at Brisbane Aiport. Fully loaded Boeing 747s cannot fly directly to Singapore because of fuel limitations imposed by the runway length. 
The short-sighted attitude of the airlines cannot be allowed to intervene. They are probably looking only to about 1985. Anybody in his right sense of mind who is thinking of establishing a tourist industry and an international airport must be looking at least to the year 2000. Such an airport would not only help the tourist industry in Queensland but also would relieve some of the air traffic congestion around Sydney. Such an airfield would be free of curfew and would afford many advantages to the aviation industry overall as well as the tourist industry. The current Brisbane Airport has technical limitations which I touched on in a speech in the Senate once before. A Boeing 727 has a cross-wind tolerance of about 25 knots. The runway is not aligned with the prevailing wind and at certain times of the year a problem known as compressor stall affects aircraft. On occasions jet services have had to be severely curtailed because of the problem. 
Let me mention my home airport at Rockhampton, which we hope in the not too distant future will be the centre of increased tourist activity. Work at that airport will have to be contemplated. There is no use international entrepreneurs looking at eight and 10 year programs if the Department of Transport is not prepared to do the same in relation to an area which could attract hundreds of tourists a week. I hope that the Department of Transport starts looking, once again, at the plans for the Rockhampton Airport. Already, the Department of Defence uses it quite considerably during activities in the area. We could well do with a parallel taxiway. It would help a lot in the usage of the airport and the handling of aircraft particularly when exercises such as the recent Kangaroo III exercise take place. 
Our own domestic airlines have had to absorb many costs lately. Increased air navigation charges will not be their major cost increase. The major increase has been in fuel costs. I take my hat off to the airlines for the fact that they have tried to rationalise more. I know that even that statement flies in the face of the recent air transport domestic review policy paper. The airlines, in their rationalisation, are hoping to lift their load factor from about 68 per cent to about 73 per cent, and thus keep their fare structure down. The fare structure in Australia is not bad. By rationalisation we get better use of the aircraft and better use of our fuel. Indeed, of all the industries- I have said this before- I think the aerospace industry has probably done more to give us fuel efficient vehicles than any other industry. If the motor industry took a leaf out of its book, maybe we would be much better off. A lot of fat can be trimmed from the transport industry generally before we can truthfully say that we have no problems with oil supplies generally. The airline industry has played its part, and the new generation jets are a tribute to the technical expertise of that industry. For the reasons outlined I reject the amendment moved by the Labor Party and I support the Bill. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western Australia)Minister for Aboriginal Affairs) (4.44)- I thank honourable senators for their support of the Bill and particularly  Senator Collard,  who has removed the need for me to reply on most matters since he covered most of the points raised by the Opposition in his speech. There are a couple of matters which I want to mention though. For reasons that are not quite clear to me,  Senator Gietzelt  said that pay-as-you-earn tax collections would account for 50 per cent of the Government's revenue. That figure seemed a little odd to me. I would just like to confirm to the Senate that it is a little odd. The figures on page 1 1 of Budget Paper No. 4 show that in 1978-79 payasyouearn taxation brought in $10,397 billion out of a total of $25.48 billion. This year the estimate is $1 1.95 billion out of a total of $39,414 billion. I mention that in case the figure mentioned by  Senator Gietzelt  in respect of this Bill was thought to be significant. 
The main point that the Opposition made was the concern about the cost recovery program and general aviation. If I could briefly refer to the figures shown in the domestic air transport policy review report, volume 1, at chapter 1 1. There are some interesting historical comments about cost recovery and there is also some useful general statistical information. 
