My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I ask him: What action is being taken to bring to an end the disastrous strike by postal workers which is designed to bring chaos- 
I congratulate the new member, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  on his speech. I should have liked him to have gone a little further on the question of federation and the Constitution. I thought he started off very well. 
That would have been a good idea. Of course, we give certain liberties to new members and, in the circumstances, he was not so bad. The only mistake that he made was to say that the people have been denied temporarily a Labor government. I would remind him that the people have been denied a Labor government for over 20 years, and that is not very temporary. However, I congratulate the honourable member and the other new members of this House for the contributions that they have made. Obviously there is some very good ability in this new Parliament and this is all to the good because if ever the occasion existed when we needed some good ability in the national Parliament it is now. Tonight I propose to discuss only one subject. 
No, the question of federation which the honourable member for Bowman mentioned. It is an undeniable fact that the most important matter which is concerning all thinking Australians today is federation and the relationship between the Commonwealth Government and the States. Many people think of federation as one thing and the governments of the Commonwealth and the States as another thing. They seem to forget, of course, that federation is a union of the States. Very few people, including politicians and leaders of governments, have given much thought to the establishment and growth of federation, where it has led us and what should be done about it in the future. Altogether too many people have arbitrary and fixed ideas on this subject. The present position is undeniably chaotic throughout Australia. The whole nation is being divided and confused by the propaganda of the States and the charges of centralism against the Federal Government. I believe that the people throughout Australia are sick to death of the wrangle that takes place, in this chamber no doubt, year after year over money - merely over money. I believe, too, that the people are looking to leadership on this subject emanating both from the Federal sphere and from the State sphere. Therefore, I propose to say a few words on this subject. 
Let us in retrospect go back over our history briefly and look at what we have done and plan a federal system that leads us to our destiny as a nation. We are celebrating, as was said by the last speaker, our bi-centenary. It is 200 years since Captain Cook placed the Union Jack upon our soil and we became a penal colony of Great Britain. The position remained this way for many years under the administrative control of a governor directed from the Home Office in Britain. The colony was called New South Wales on 26th January 1788. I would remind the House that the colony of New South Wales - and people do not think of this - covered the whole of the east coast of Australia, Tasmania and 
New Zealand. Of course, it was only sparsely populated at that time. It was not until 1823 that advisory councils to the governor were established - not elected, but appointed. Then in 1842 partly elected legislative councils were set up with limited power. It was not until 1856 that New  South  Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania had responsible government. Queensland was granted responsible government in 1859 and Western Australia in 1890, of course with certain limitations of power. So for a period of less than 45 years the States were on their own without a Commonwealth. People do not think of this. In the 112 years from the foundation of New South Wales, as 1 have described it, to the establishment of the Commonwealth, the population rose from a mere 859 to 3,765,339. In the next 70 years it rose within our Commonwealth to just under 13 million people at the present time. 
Yes. The honourable member should keep quiet and listen to it. It must be remembered that because of the great distances and lack of transportation and communication it suited the purpose of Great Britain to give separate identity to the States, all of which operated as colonies largely under the direction of the mother country. Of course, the fact that we are a continent made a great difference in this determination. 
The honourable member should act his age. It is of interest to note that the settlements of Tasmania and Western Australia were set up because of the fear at that time that France may attempt to take possession of these areas. I think that a little thought on the development of federation is appropriate at this time. One of the enduring advantages of the way in which the States were established - and this is of tremendous importance in the scheme of things - is the fact that the people are basically the same kind of people, speak the same language and have adopted the same British way of life. This could well have been different, but this is one of the great advantages of the way in which the States were set up. But as I have said, it suited Great Britain to keep the States separately controlled because this was the era of colonialism - a word which has developed into a dirty word. 
There is a great fundamental difference between the establishment of Australia in this way and the establishment of Canada, one of our sister dominions. There the French had already established settlements and the fear always existed that Canada would be absorbed into the United States of America, so a federal body was set up with legislative control over the Provinces, which is entirely different to the setup in Australia. This is because Canada is not a continent whereas Australia is. By the very nature of the separate and individual powers given to the States in Australia it was inevitable that jealousies would arise and that conflict in ideas of development would occur. Some were free traders, other protectionists, and so on, and enmity grew to an alarming degree, particularly between New South Wales and Victoria, the 2 fast developing States. Some of this enmity persists to this day. We hope it is not very much, but this competition does continue to exist between States. 
It was in this atmosphere that the great leaders of political thought realised that we must create a federation of States if we were ever to reach our destiny as a great nation. Otherwise our future would have been one of 6 independent countries torn asunder by jealousies and economic instability. We all know of the turmoil and the difficulties experienced in bringing about federation, and it is interesting for everybody to read of those difficulties. We remember  Sir Henry  Parkes, known as the Father of Federation, who tried desperately to establish what he at that time called a federal council' to deal with matters of common concern to all the colonies. He never achieved this objective, but finally a compromise was arrived at, resulting in the Commonwealth Constitution Act being passed. Can anyone imagine what the position would be in this country today without federation? It would be appalling to think what might happen with 6 independent countries as was referred to by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  a day or 2 ago. It was inevitable that we had to have a federation; otherwise it would have been impossible for this country to carry on in the way that it has. 
Indeed, it is possible to conceive that we could have had civil war in Australia as happened in America. This would have been quite possible. 
As we all know, the Constitution was approved by  Her  Majesty the Queen on 9th July 1900 and was limited to certain powers, which have been added to in several ways since then. But by far the greatest change has taken place because of the financial agreement in 1942 whereby the Commonwealth was created the sole taxing authority in the income tax field and the States were given money on an agreed formula. Let me make it perfectly clear, particularly to the Opposition, that I am not a centralist. The honourable member for Bowman, who spoke last, acknowledged that he was a centralist and that he stood with a party who were centralists. I believe in the freedom of the individual and tho preservation of his sacred right to liberty and justice. I believe, too, in the partnership of the States and the Commonwealth in a democratic federation with a common objective of maintaining and developing the Australian nation. 
I was very glad indeed - because I believe what I have just said - when the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  gave an emphatic no to a request by the States at their recent conference to levy income tax for their own purposes. I know that there are people who disagree with this. I know that there are people who believe that the authority which spends the money should have the onus of collecting the tax. I know there are people who believe that, but in my opinion it would have been a retrograde step to give this power to the States and would have been inimical to the best interests of federation. I believe it would have been resented by the taxpayers of every State tn Australia. The people realise, even if the State governments do not, that our progress and development, our standards of living and our prosperity depend on the stability of our economy. You cannot have that stability if individual States have the right to run off on their own tangent of financial irresponsibility. I am not charging the States with being irresponsible. Do not misunderstand me. But they are not responsible for economic stability and seem oblivious to what it means on many occasions. This is the Federal Government's responsibility, and of course it is not a popular function. This is a very vital factor in our setup at the present time. 
It would appear to me from recent State government propaganda that their idea of being federalists means that each State should exercise its sovereignty in an absolute fashion and do as it likes within its own State boundaries, uninhibited by the effect of these actions. This attitude in my opinion  is State centralism in the extreme and will, if allowed to continue, destroy any possibility of an effective federal system. It certainly destroys the federal concept of 'one people, one nation'. This is the most dangerous and damaging political and economic movement being fostered in Australia today. It has already inflicted great damage and will undoubtedly bring about a political situation which will inevitably end in the destruction of a free enterprise democracy and impose on the people of Australia a Socialist economy with rabid centralism. In other words, it is political suicide to go on in the way that we were going. This is exactly what the Opposition would want because the Australian Labor Party stands for rabid centralism in the full sense of the term. 
I am not defending the Commonwealth Government in its treatment of the States. Perhaps it has not made sufficient money available for their essential needs. I hope that this will be rectified. But, on . the broader issues, I feel that the time has come for a closer partnership, association and appreciation of the respective roles of the Commonwealth and the States to create and to maintain one nation. It almost seems to me that the old fight of the 1890s is on again with the States taking the role of the anti-federalists. If we must go back, let us adopt now  Sir Henry  Parkes's suggestion and set up 'a federal council to deal with matters of common concern to all the colonies', meaning, of course, the 'States' instead of the 'colonies'. That was the original concept of federation. 
It is becoming increasingly clear as we develop into nationhood that the bonds of partnership between the States and Federal Government must be strengthened and the spirit of national identity encouraged to look beyond State boundaries. To bring this about in the field of development, the resources of the nation must be applied with priority to the national good, and what is best for the nation as a whole. The States themselves must be parties to these determinations. It is very difficult to get the States even to consider this aspect. But it is of vital importance. Priorities must apply without being hidebound to the State affected. The functions of the States are all important for the effective and efficient carrying into effect of our national growth and they must be given ample funds within our capacity to do this, not essentially only on a State basis but on a national basis. 
However, a great need exists for an overall examination of, firstly, all things that should be left exclusively to the States, secondly, those things that must of necessity be left exclusively to the Commonwealth - anyone could determine them easily - and, thirdly, those matters which, though to be administered by either the States or the Commonwealth, have a national implication. This is a wide field. It is in this last field of policy and activity that the bonds of true federation must be exerted in the national interest. I know that there are people who will charge me with being a centralist for saying this, but it is my firm .opinion that this is the only basis upon, which federalism can be achieved and the resources. of the nation properly and efficiently applied for the benefit of the people as a whole. 1 venture to suggest some of the matters - highly controversial, I know - that have national implications and about many of which there is at present costly duplication. This is by no means a complete list, but just a few of the most important. I mention first of all education. The facilities and opportunity for education in all aspects should be available on a basis of equality for all children and adults too in all parts of Australia irrespective of State boundaries. I am not saying that the States should relinquish education, but a need exists for that close collaboration to bring about the desired result throughout the length and breadth of Australia. 
I turn to health and hospitalisation. The same basis should apply here also. Why should there be any difference in the facilities available, whether a person lives in Timbuctoo, Longreach or Melbourne? The need arises for close collaboration also in the field of transport This needs rationalising in the national interest. But in all its aspects it has a tremendous bearing on the orderly growth of the nation. I am not referring to local transport and the type of thing that we hear a lot about, but the wider aspects of national transport which are of tremendous importance to the growth of the nation. 
I turn now to urban development. Whilst the States look upon this as being their exclusive responsibility, it cannot be divorced from our planned national growth. It includes such things as local government, roads, power, water and sewerage, housing, availability of land, pollution, decentralisation, valuation and rating principles, and a host of other matters. This, in my opinion, is one of the most important functions of the States which must have close collaboration with the Commonwealth so that progress is on a national basis and money made available on an equitable basis of need irrespective of State boundaries. The need of local government in particular is at present out of hand. Local government bodies are instruments of the State but, in my opinion, have a right to Federal recognition if they are to serve their purpose. 
Standardisation of building regulations, trade practices, manufacturing processes, electricity and power distribution all are matters in need of State and Federal close consideration and collaboration. It is essential to the States themselves that agricultural production and distribution are organised on a national basis, otherwise chaos will result with great national losses, including duplication and retardation of orderly development. It is no answer to say that the States can deal with all these matters if given sufficient money. This only perpetuates the division of the States from the nation and creates jealousies and political manipulation. We need a united Australia not a series of competing States. 
My appeal is to the Prime Minister of Australia and to the Premiers of the States throughout the whole of the federation. Let us drop all the parochialism of State boundaries and charges and counter charges and proceed to build one nation destined to be one of the great nations on earth. This is true federation, not the type with which we are dealing now. This is all in our hands now. All we require is leadership not only in the Federal sphere but also from the Premiers of the States and our State elected representatives to get together on a true basis of federation. The time is opportune, I believe at the present time, to call together something that I mentioned in this House before: This is a great national convention of the Commonwealth and all the States to work out all the details of one common objective - one people, one nation. [Quorum formed.] 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Dobie)Before calling the honourable member for Adelaide I would remind the House that this is his maiden speech and I would ask the House to extend to him the usual courtesy. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he is aware that the Australian Broadcasting Commission television station Channel 2 proposes to repeat the showing of the controversial nlm 'Son of Man' on 9th April. As this distorted film is so offensive to tens of thousands of people in this country, will he suggest to the Australian Broadcasting Comtrol Board that the repeat showing should not be proceeded with? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the allocation of funds for loans to ex-servicemen for the purchase of homes for the current year has been exhausted? Is he also aware that there are several hundred applications for loans which have been approved and that contracts for the purchase of homes have been entered into but that no money is available? The Prime Minister will realise that if these are facts a great number of exservicemen will be placed in the position that they will have to borrow bridging finance at excessively high rates of interest to complete their transactions while they are awaiting the availability of their loan from the War Service Homes Division. Will the Prime Minister consider making available an immediate special grant to the War Service Homes Division to enable it to complete the transactions referred to? 
This afternoon on this very important Bill we have had a discussion from the Opposition ranging over the whole field of housing. 1 do not think such a wide discussion comes within the ambit of this Bill. I know that because of some of the amendments proposed honourable members opposite have been permitted to touch upon various matters. I do not propose tonight to take members of the Opposition to task in relation to all of the things which they mentioned. I would think that the important parts of their speeches have been confined to the question of the increased price of land - and everyone knows that land prices have increased - and also, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in particular, the historical background of this legislation. It was alleged by both the honourable member for Reid and the honourable member for Perth (Mx Berinson) that this Bill was only a sort of election gimmick. This, of course, is quite a foolish statement to make. Honourable members opposite then went on to deal with their advocacy of credit unions being permitted tobe recognised in this legislation. lt appals me that so few people seem to appreciate the fundamental cause of the increased price of land in Australia. The increased price of land affects every city - some more than others perhaps. The increased price of land is not peculiar to any city. The basic reason behind the increased price of land is that there is not sufficient land available to meet the demand. This situation was brought about largely by government interference which was prompted in the first place, of course, by the Australian Labor Party in the kind of legislation that it left this Government. 1 say advisedly that many of the Liberal Party governments in Australia seem to forget the fundamental reason why the land problem cannot be cured by government interference. Local government authorities in my opinion have grown up in recent years with an idea that they can interfere with the development and the availability of land. 
The bureaucracy has greater control over land development in this day and age. Of course each of the States has its own planning authority. Planning is very good in its own way provided that the planning authorities understand the objectives they are trying to achieve. All local government councils practise land zoning and town planning. In other words, all the forms of government in Australia impose a restriction on the availability of land. This has brought about a number of things. Under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, housing commissions have been created in all the States of Australia and have acquired big areas of land. The War Service Homes Division has also acquired large areas of land, in every city. In addition, because of its approach to investment in land, the Australian Labor Party introduced fringe banking when it was in power. The Labor Party destroyed very effectively the inducement for investment in land by the legislation it introduced. As a result organisations and. developers acquired land in bulk in various areas and shut out the possibility of development of sufficient land to meet the demands of the people. As a consequence there has been an enormous rise in the price of land. This is because a Labor government did not allow free enterprise to operate. 
I am not accusing only the Labor Party. 
Honourable members opposite have given their cure for the problem. I have listened to them very carefully today. They propose that the State governments should acquire areas of land, develop it and sell it to the people at cost or near cost. That is their idea. It was rather unfortunate that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned the Chifley Government, I did not want to talk about this matter, but the honourable member for Hughes raised the question of the Chifley Government and the terms that it laid down. I would remind him that when the Labor Party was in power in this Federal Parliament the Chifley Government tried to introduce a national housing commission not along the lines of the existing State housing commisisons but for the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia. The Commonwealth was to take complete control over the housing of the people of Australia. 
In the legislation introduced by the Labor Government no provision whatever was made for the ownership of homes by the people. Let honourable members opposite deny that if they can. If they go back over the legislation they will find that what I say is true. Members of the Labor Party tonight have been advocating home ownership in a subtle way. I do not think their hearts are in it. They would rather socialise the lot. The Chifley Government introduced legislation which would virtually have prohibited home ownership in Australia. That legislation was found to be invalid. It was ultra vires the Constitution. As a result the State housing commissions were set up under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreements. 
The first of those agreements provided no encouragement whatever for home ownership. If honourable members go back to the original agreement in 1945 they will see no provision whatever for the encouragement of home ownership in Australia. There was a scheme for renting houses to the people. Indeed, under that scheme people would not have been able to choose in which suburb they would live or what kind of house they would live in. In other words, they were to be subjected to Socialism. They were to be directed where to go by the Government. They were to have a number on their back, as it were. This was Labor's idea, and this is the fundamental idea that it still has in relation to housing. Honourable members opposite have suggested nothing of real importance in relation to this Bill. 
The honourable member for Reid and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  spoke about the rising costs of housing. We all know that the costs of constructing houses have risen. These costs rise only in accordance with the general rise in the costs of labour and material and in accordance with the demand by the people for housing. The other component is the cost of land, and I have spoken about that before. Therefore there is only one problem. As an honourable member said here today, this Government has done more for housing than any other Government in the history of Australia. Homes have been constructed on the basis of providing 1 home for every  2b  people by which the population has increased. The proportion of homes built has been even higher in recent years. When 
Labor was in office it was constructing 1 home for every 4 people by which the population had increased. 
That is all right, but never in the history of the Labor Party did it do anything for housing. In broad terms, there is only one problem in housing in Australia, and that is the availability of cheap renting houses for the indigent people. Other than that, sufficient housing is available. There are problems relating to the scarcity of finance in certain directions, but this Bill was never intended to be a cure for all the problems of housing. There are other pieces of legislation relating to housing. 
This scheme in itself is a magnificent one. It is a magnificent conception. It is a brilliant idea and is an encouragement to the people, particularly the young people. The results that have been achieved since the homes savings grant scheme was introduced in 1964 - that is less than 6 years ago - prove my contention. Certain figures have been quoted, but I have the latest figures. They were up to date as at the time of the election. They show that as a result of this legislation 164,000 young marrieds have become home owners. I do not think that can be sneezed at. They have been given grants without any strings attached and without any discrimination whatever. They have been given a total of $71m in grants. I think that is pretty magnificent. But the most important aspect of the success of the scheme is that those 164,000 young married people are better citizens for having received this grant. 
I do not say that they would not have received it, but they have been assisted by this scheme. Members of the Labor Party do not seem to understand the fundamental reasons for the introduction of the homes savings grant scheme. The best feature of the scheme is that it provides encouragement to young people to save as soon as they start work or as soon as they get their money box. They start to save with a definite objective. Both young women and young men are encouraged to think of their future. They will look forward to being married one day, setting up a home of their own and rearing their own family, because this is the only way they can find real happiness in life. This Bill is an encouragement and an invitation to them to save and to plan for their future because the grant is made according to their savings. 
The scheme is effective because it also interests the young people in civic affairs. In other words it makes better citizens of young people, because they are thinking and planning for their future. Another aspect that is sometimes overlooked is that by their saving for many years before they want the money they are helping other people to get homes. This, of course, is one of the reasons why the Government has asked that their savings be deposited with certain organisations or institutions that deal in housing. Tens of thousands of young Australians today are saving for the purposes that I have mentioned, ls this worth while? Is this not something that should be applauded by the Labor Party and everybody in Australia who has a proper love for their own country? The amendments introduced in the Bill are good, although some are long overdue. 
Yes, long overdue. In the past the savings have had to be designated as homes savings accounts. The new amendment opens the door a little wider in this respect. I do not think it matters very much as long as the intention is clear - saving for a home. This is what we have to get across; the intention must be saving for a home. This intention can be evident in many ways, one of which is the purchasing of land in advance of requirement. This is saving for a home. This is recognised in the Bill. Money may be deposited with a bank or with a building society. These are authorised bodies and the principal bodies which deal substantially with the provision of homes. 
The question of credit unions has been raised. I have no objection to credit unions. The honourable member for Reid dealt extensively with this aspect and said that in New South Wales credit unions could not lend more than $4,000 for a home, and in the Australian Capital Terri tory more than $2,000. What we have to remember is that the credit union system of saving is not designed for homes at all. This was never intended by the credit unions. These amendments give credit unions an invitation to alter their charter to provide for loans for homes but it would be quite unfair if we permitted credit unions to participate in this scheme . unless they were actually lending money for housing purposes. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  pointed out that credit unions were set up to provide consumer credit for people. They were not intended to provide money for housing. 
A block of land is a different thing altogether. If a person buys a block of land from his savings that land is an acknowledged saving. It is not necessary to have a credit union for that purpose. This, in my opinion, is the best form of saving. If I were to advise the young people of Australia today I would tell them that there are two principal avenues for their savings.- One is to buy a block of land and the other is to invest their savings in the permanent building societies, which are the most important building institutions in Australia and which were specifically set up for one purpose. 
No, they were not. 
Did honourable members ever hear such a statement in their lives? The honourable member for Sturt interjects: 'For profiteering'. Who gets the profit? 
They do not. A permanent building society works on a simple basis. People are paid 6% interest on their deposits and money is loaned at from 7% to  li%  interest. The 1% to I  i%  difference meets the costs of running the building society. No question of profit comes into it, because the building societies are not run for profit at all. They are cooperative societies for the benefit of people who invest and borrow from them, and they are safe. That is the great thing about them. 
In my opinion they are the best possible organisations for young people to invest their savings in, because those people get 6% interest on their savings and have money made available to them when they need it to build or buy their homes. 
I am glad that the legislation proposes widening the category of persons eligible to receive the grant. There is no reason why there should be discrimination between young marrieds, widows, widowers or even divorced people with children, provided they need and want a home. This will be a useful amendment. Another important amendment relates to the Minister's discretion to determine the date of commencement of a home. This discretion should be exercised very reasonably by the Minister. Occasions arise - I have had this experience in the time that the legislation has been operative - when people buy a block of land and temporarily build a shed or garage on it. But that cannot be regarded as the starting date of building. A couple may have plans approved for a home in anticipation of a wedding. There may be some delay in the wedding through illness or some other cause but in the meantime they may do some preliminary work themselves on the site. We cannot be too precipitate in relation to this matter; so this discretion is very important and should be exercised reasonably. 
The honourable member for Reid kept on making a patent error, as did one other member opposite. I think, in referring to an increase in the loan from $14,000 to $17,500. That is not the loan but the total price that can be paid for or the valuation of the property on which  a  grant is given. 
It is not the maximum loan. It is the amount paid for the property. The honourable member does not understand his own proposal. This is the amount paid for  a  property upon which a person may borrow. If he pays in excess of that amount he is not qualified for the grant. It is not the maximum loan. I think - and I say this advisedly to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  who is at the table and who has had  a  lifetime of experience in these matters- 
The honourable member made his calculations this afternoon as though the whole of this money is a loan. It is not. He has not considered the equity that a person may have in the property - the deposit he may have paid. 
But the amount of$1 7,500 is the outside price that they can pay for a property and remain eligible to get the grant. 
But the honourable member did not say so. He called it a loan. I think that the amount of $17,500 is too low. 
I know what the Government is doing about it. It is trying to determine some basis of means test, if we like to call it that. However, I think that this amount is not only unrealistic but it is inhibiting in many ways. We have spoken about the increasing cost of land and increasing construction costs. Apart from that young people who are planning for a family should be encouraged to buy or build as good a house as their future capacity to pay will enable them to build. If a young man has an obvious future ahead of him and can see his way clear in the years to come to have a better home, why should we inhibit him by restricting him to a home valued at $17,500. I think it is wrong. I do not think it is realistic at all and the Government should have another look at this. It is not even in line with current costs and I think we should raise this amount quite considerably. There are thousands of young men in Australia whose future income is assured by the very nature of their employment. They can now be supported, though they could not some years ago, by the insured loan they borrow through a permanent building society. The loan is insured through the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation - another magnificent institution set up by this Government. This enables young people to bridge the deposit gap and they need have only 5% or 10% of the value of the house. So with the $500 they get free and the $1,500 they save, they are able to buy a very nice house for the future. This is the result of the insurance scheme which was set up by this Government to protect buyers and building societies and to enable buyers to bridge the deposit gap. I believe the limit should be raised to not less than $20,000 at present. 
I do not propose to move an amendment but I make that suggestion to the Government. Whilst the scheme has been very successful it has been administered too rigidly. That is my criticism of it. I think in this kind of legislation much more discretion should be allowed to the minister. I know that some quite serious injustices have occurred. These can happen particularly where a home is bought at the right price within the limit. However, before completion of the transaction the young man decides to add some improvements to it. I have noticed even when the owner does some minor improvements, such as painting the walls, with his own hands, he increases the value beyond the limit and he loses the $500. To my way of thinking that is ridiculous. 
In another case a man may buy a block of land and enter into a contract within the limit set by the legislation. At the weekends he adds a little more himself by way of paths, rockeries and so on. Because he does that the value placed on it is beyond the limit. This then deprives him of his $500. I think that is quite absurd and quite ridiculous. More discretion should be given to the Minister in these borderline cases and the administration should not be as rigid as it has been up to this point of time. I believe that all these things are against the real spirit of the scheme, which is to encourage young people to be proud of home ownership. That is the incentive in the whole scheme. 
I think the amendments moved by the Labor Party are quite absurd; they are not necessary at all. To go back to 1967 in an amendment is quite ridiculous. The Prime Minister announced this change in his policy speech and he made the legislation retrospective to the first business day after the election of 25th October of last year. That stands, but this amendment is quite foolish. The question of appeal against valuation should be covered by a greater degree of discretion being given to the Minister. He could deal with the case on its merits without in any. way destroying the incentive given to a young person to improve his home or to better himself. He should not be discouraged. Overall this is the most magnificent, piece of legislation that has even been inspired by a government for young people. The Labor Party would never have thought of it. I believe the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  was genuine: and spoke for the Labor Party tonight when he said that when the Labor Party becomes the Government it will scrap this scheme. 
He said if Labor gets into power it will scrap this scheme. I sincerely hope the Government will take a little notice of what I have said. However, I say that this is magnificent legislation and serves the interests of the people of Australia. 
I do not propose to speak at any great length because I do not think it is necessary to do so. We heard the same arguments last night as we have heard tonight for the admission of credit unions . into this new scheme. Opposition members know as well as we do that credit unions were not established to meet the purpose for which this scheme was designed. They know also that those bodies are authorised as lending bodies and their savings are not of a kind that should be recognised in this scheme. It is just common sense that young people should be encouraged to save for the purpose of getting a home and that is the fundamental purpose of this legislation. Where should they put their savings for a home? They should put their savings obviously into an organisation that lends money for the acquisition of homes. This is simple. No-one has anything against credit unions at all. They do a very good job in providing the means of saving for consumer spending. Practically the whole of their business, big as it is, is on this basis. They lend small amounts of money for the purchase of land and for improvements to homes. But fundamentally they are not constituted for the purpose of providing home loans on a basis that will encourage people to save for homes. 
The obvious organisations for this purpose, as I said last night, with great respect to savings banks or anyone else, are the: permanent building societies of Australia. They are obviously the places where young, people should deposit their savings. I do not know of any other organisation, savingsbank or anything else, that will pay the same rate of interest on deposits. Depositors get. 6% per annum on their savings and their savings can be withdrawn at any time. If. they find themselves in a position where they need the money for other purposes they can withdraw it on giving notice to the building, society. In what other organisation in Australia can anyone get 6% for money that can be withdrawn on demand? If they continue to save until they have enough for a: deposit on a home or have saved for 3 years, which is the period laid down in this Act, they become eligible for the $500 grant from the Government. What is more, being subscribers to a building society they have no difficulty whatever in obtaining up to 90% of the value of the home they are buying with finance from the building society at a rate of interest slightly over 1% more than the rate they were paid on their savings. What better proposition could there be than that? 
Therefore there is actually no need for the credit unions to be disturbed about this. As a matter of fact it is a generous offer by the Government to include the credit unions or to encourage them to lend some of the money that was deposited with them for the purpose of home ownership. I know that at the present time - and I think that the Government would have been quite aware of this - very few, if any, credit unions can meet the conditions laid down, but they can alter their charters, if they so wish to meet the conditions laid down. It is really very generous of theGovernment to make this offer to the credit unions if they want to enter into this field' of lending. But it is begging the question for the Labor Party to move an amendment of this type to postpone the clause and to have further argument about this. The matter is perfectly clear. If the credit unions wish to alter their basis to enable them to be lenders to home owners in a major way the deposits by their customers will be recognised as savings under this scheme and they will be able to get the grant of $500. All I can see is that the Opposition is using this as a sort of political weapon. The Opposition thinks that there are politics in this matter. 
I think that the credit unions, those who lend to credit unions and those who deposit their money in credit unions know full well that if they want to save for a home there are other avenues available to them for the deposit of their money that may be better for them. In other words, if they want to save for consumer expenditure they should go on with the credit unions but if the credit unions want to alter that the matter is open to them to do so. I think the Government has been very generous in this regard. I cannot see how the Government could possibly agree to the amendment proposed by the Opposition. As I said, the Government has been more than generous in allowing depositors eligibility for grants provided the credit unions will lend not less than $7,000 on the purchase of a home, which is really a very small amount. To get recognition on this basis is more than the credit unions could have expected in the circumstances. There is -nothing against the credit unions let me hasten to say, but this is not the purpose for which they were established and mere are many other established avenues, such as building societies, set up for the exclusive purpose of assisting people to own homes. 
I had hoped that I would be able to get some points from the address by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  which would make up part of my speech. I find that 1 can agree with a number of the things that he said. I do not know whether he ought to be on this side of the House or on that side of the House, but there was nothing very contentious- 
Perhaps. The honourable member made a speech that was calculated to hold his electorate. It is likely that we will have a member of the Liberal Party representing the electorate of Kingston after the next election. The honourable member did refer to one matter that 1 think was rather interesting. He dealt with the question of nurses. This is not in the Bill. But I think that there is a lol of common sense in what he said. Also the honourable member dealt with the question of some analysis of the future requirements of doctors in the various categories that we may require within Australia. We probably need to be paying some attention to these matters. The honourable member also dealt very extensively 1 thought with the implications of taxation upon this scheme. I am not proposing to do that. 
The honourable member made the claim that the Australian Labor Party rather stimulated the Government into bringing this scheme into being. In that regard I think he is very foolishly advised or is quite ignorant of the history of the health services of this country. This Government, in effect, was elected in the election held in December 1949. It is a fact that the Government, in comparison with any other government in the history of Australia, is noted for the attention it has paid to our health services. This is not an idle statement. No government has ever contributed so much to the advancement of health services and to the establishment of worthwhile health services in the community than this Government has. This was a feature which was established by the late  Sir Earle  Page when he was Minister for Health in the Menzies Government, lt is to his eternal credit that the scheme has grown to the proportions that it has grown for the benefit of the people of Australia. The Bill with which we are dealing is only a further instalment of what was started nearly 20 years ago. Certain improvements have been made from time to time and I do not want to touch upon them, but it became necessary recently to have a comprehensive look at the whole of our health services. Because of this the Nimmo Committee was established, and all honourable members are familiar with its report. The Bill covers only one part of the recommendations that were made by that Committee. No doubt other Bills will be introduced as a result of the report, but some of the recommendations have been acted on already. 
The Labor Party's record in the field of health is possibly the most deplorable of all. When the Labor Party was in office in 1948-49 it failed to bring about any improvements in health services. It certainly failed to get the co-operation of the doctors in any scheme it did put forward. I do not want to quote the amount that we are spending on health at present, but it runs into some hundreds of millions of dollars. I doubt whether anybody here knows the exact amount but we are spending an enormous sum today. However, if we look back only 20 years we find that the Labor Party, when it was in government, spent a paltry sum of $12.4m in 1948-49. This, of course, would not keep cocky in corn. So the Labor Party really has contributed nothing to the health services of Australia. 
Now the Opposition comes out with a new scheme of compulsion. It proposes a compulsory scheme based upon and financed by taxation. This is only in furtherance of its Socialistic idea that the ills of the community can be cured by a system of compulsion and control. I do not know whether honourable members opposite will ever learn, but it is consistent with their Socialist idea which has been held for a long time. 1 was looking at some papers today and 1 came across a 19S6 report. In New South Wales at that time there was a Labor government and the Labor Minister for Health,  Mr Bill  Sheahan, conceived the idea of a compulsory scheme for hospital benefits. Medical benefits were not dealt with at that time.  Mr Sheahan  set up a committee to investigate a compulsory scheme. 1 do not know whether members of the Labor Party know anything about this but they would be advised to look at the papers if they want to find out something about it. The committee consisted of  Mr Cameron,  the Under Secretary of the Department of Public Health in New South Wales;  Mr Love,  who was the  Deputy  Member of the Hospitals Commission;  Mr Fairlie,  who was in the Budget Branch of the Treasury in New South Wales, and  Mr Miller,  who was then Director of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales. At that time 1 was an executive member of the Hospitals Contribution Fund. 
That is not a very sensible remark from a doctor. To be facetious in circumstances like this is not very intelligent, if I may say so. This committee was set up to investigate the desirability of a compulsory scheme of contributions and of setting up a hospital fund. The committee recommended, in rather drastic terms, that this would serve no useful purpose and, indeed, would be detrimental to the conduct of the hospitals in New South Wales. I mention this only to indicate to members of the Labor Party that they would be advised to have another look at the compulsory scheme which they propose to see the extent of its effect upon the community. 
The Government's scheme has been of widespread benefit to the community. One needs to mention, in this context, some of the things that have been done, particularly the enormous benefit which is provided daily under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme which calls for a contribution of 50c from each person for each prescription he has made up by a chemist. This is a necessary deterrent because in other countries where medicine has been supplied free, such as the United Kingdom, this has be come a dreadful and stupid thing for the taxpayers to meet. The contribution of 50c was an excellent idea; the people of Australia have benefited tremendously from the pharmaceutical scheme- 1 do not think there is anything in the world to compare with our pensioner medical scheme. This is a magnificent scheme which has brought medical care to the old people of Australia in a way that no other country can match. Notwithstanding criticisms that have been levelled, I compliment the doctors in this country who have contributed tremendously to this scheme. They have received little credit for so doing. As a matter of fact, they have been charged with trying to charge too much and this sort of thing, but when we realise what they get for the services they give to our pensioners some credit is due to them. One aspect of the scheme that I have not heard mentioned, and perhaps not many know about, is that when a doctor has to pay a home visit to a pensioner in certain circumstances he may charge the pensioner 50c. To my knowledge this charge has never been made by any doctor. It would be impossible to find, throughout the length and breadth of Australia, any doctor who had resorted to his right to make this charge. I think some of the doctors' critics would be appalled if they knew the services doctors do render to pensioners without charge. 
The medical and hospital insurance fund in my opinion is very good because it is a voluntary scheme. The fact that it is voluntary is important. It is for the individual to make up his own mind whether to insure himself and his family. He is not compelled to do so, but it is certainly advisable that he should do so. Under the present scheme he has to pay a calculated percentage of the cost. Under the new scheme this idea will go by the board. The Commonwealth will contribute so much and the funds will contribute so much. 
I want to say something in contradiction to what some people have said about the funds. I support the funds. They have carried the burden of the health insurance scheme. They have done an excellent job. Half the time they are criticised when they have in fact done an excellent job. In my opinion it is a good thing that there has been a competitive element in their operation. The fact that there has been a competitive element has made these funds more important to the public and has created a greater degree of efficiency. They are efficient. They have been criticised for the size of their reserves. I do not criticise them for this. I think it is proper that the funds should have a considerable reserve to meet contingencies that may arise in the future. No-one knows just what may arise by way of an epidemic or some similar catastrophe, when enormous demands would be made on these funds. Therefore I think it is proper to be cautious and to keep a very heavy reserve. 
It is a good thing that the Government is looking into the operation of these funds and taking act'on that will increase their efficiency. I suppose it is true to say that the scheme has outgrown itself. Rising doctors' fees - and these inevitably have to rise - have created a position in which the contribution by the patient has become too great a percentage of the total cost. The amount they are paying as premiums has got out of hand. I know that doctors have been criticised because of this. They have put up their fees. But the Government is not blameless. 1 venture to suggest- - and I speak with some knowledge of the subject - that if the Government had increased its contribution pro rata, according to rises in the cost of living or on some other basis, we would never have reached the position in which we are today, notwithstanding the increases in doctors' fees. Indeed, it may well be said that doctors' fees need not have been increased to such an extent. That could well be, because unfortunately a mistrust of the scheme has built up. I do not think that the Government gave its contribution in the way that it should have done. I do not think it has been efficient in dealing with the upgrading from time to time of conditions, fees and the contribution that it makes. Although a review of costs is not provided for in the Bill, we have the Minister's assurance that they will be watched. They will need to be watched carefully to see that the Government is keeping pace with what is going on in the medical world and what it costs to maintain a health service. 
During the recent election campaign the Prime Minister promised - this has been referred to this afternoon - that the maximum amount a patient would pay for a medical service or an operation would be $5, provided that the common fee was charged. It is very important to stress that this promise was made in the context that the common fee would have to be charged. The common fee has been arrived at on the basis of advice received from the medical profession and calculations from information that has been passed through a computer. We all know that in the practical field of medicine throughout Australia there are differing charges in each State and in different zones in each State. The public ought not to be misled into believing that the common fee which will be announced to them as a result of this legislation will be the fee they can expect to pay in all circumstances, because this will not be so. There is to be no fixation of fees. The common fee was given to the Government in the nature of a confidence by the medical profession and not so the Government could announce it as a standard fee that the public might be expected to pay. It was a guide so the Government could assess the amount of contribution it would have to make to the cost of medical care in conjunction wilh the contribution of the funds. 
We know what increase will take place in the contribution to the funds. The patient will be asked to contribute a small margin, provided the common fee is charged. But in many instances this common fee will not be adhered to. This is not because the doctors are money hungry, as many people say they are. I join issue with people who criticise doctors and say they are money hungry. They have their own economic considerations and their own costs to meet. We know what is happening in the economy today. It may be that some will charge a little too much. Because human nature is what it is, this may well happen. But nobody can tell me that doctors are as interested in the money they get as they are in the care they give to the people. I think it is dreadful for a man in public life to criticise doctors, claiming that they are money grabbers. These critics say that they are interested in patient care, that governments are interested in patient care, and that members of Parliament are interested in patient care, but doctors are not. I suggest that it is the other way around and that the doctors, as a class of people, are more interested in patient care than are other people. I say that because so much that is unfair is being said. It makes me wild to hear such comments. 1 want to stress that the fees will not be controlled. There is to be no fixed fee. I know, from a close association with the medical profession over a long period of time, that in a very large percentage of medical practices in Australia some patients are charged no more than the amount that they receive in refund from the Government and the funds. Over and over again doctors relieve people, particularly if they are in an indigent financial position, of the need to meet their medical costs fully. This is happening everywhere, but no credit is given to the doctor for the contribution that he makes to the people. I think that we can be proud of the medical profession in Australia. I believe it is one of the best medical services in the world. 
Yes. The honourable member had better watch out that they do noi catch up with him. Generally speaking ] believe that the general practitioner is the basis of medical care in Australia. Of course we have need for specialists, and that must continue. We have a need for the expert surgeon and all the other experts. But the basis of medical care in Australia is the family doctor, the general practitioner. The practise of medicine is much more than the curing of a particular ill from which one may suffer. The general practitioner has to deal with cases of psychological upset, and to act as a confidant, to talk about what might happen, not strictly on a medical basis. The general practitioner has to spend endless time with people to guide them in their need for medical care. So we must not imagine that medical care is merely a matter of the doctor having a look at you and prescribing something. There is much more to it than that. That is why I say it will be a sad day in Australia when we deprive the community of the basic general practitioner service. It is all too true that in the scheme of medicine throughout the world there has been a diminution in the number of general practitioners because the young graduate in medicine is aiming to become a specialist. It is good to have a great number of specialists. As we advance in our expertise in medicine in its various branches no doubt there will be a tendency towards specialisation. But I sincerely hope that our medical scheme in this country will never bring about the kind of situation which exists in the United Kingdom and the United States of America today. 
No, we do not. That is one thing we do not want. Nor do we want the Opposition's system. There is always the danger of paying too much attention to playing into the hands of the specialists. I agree with the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who is a young doctor, in this regard. I do not like these differential fees al all. I know that specialists charge higher fees than general practitioners, and I think it is quite right that they do. I am not denying the justice of that, but 1 think that the contribution by the Commonwealth should be on the basis of the procedure and not according to the kind of doctor involved. In other words, I believe that in this way we could avoid the need for discrimination, as the honourable member for Kingston rightly said, and the bringing about of a lowering of the status of the general practitioner. That could well happen in this country, much to the detriment of its people. So I bel:eve that this question of differential fees should be looked at very closely. Of course, there will be a difference in the procedures because it will be found that there are a great number of procedures which are usually carried out by general practitioners, just as there ure a great number of procedures that are generally carried out by specialists. It should not be beyond the wit of this Parliament to devise a scheme whereby lines of demarcation are not made upon th s basis. I believe that this can be done and that some effort should be made to do it, because I think that the family doctor must be preserved. 
We have grown into an era in which group practise by doctors is providing a great medical service to the community. This has been a grand thing in many ways. lt has at least provided a weekend off for a doctor if he is in a group of 4 or so. It has also provided for a kind of specialty within the group practice of general practitioners. One doctor might be particularly interested in practising as a physician, another might be a very capable surgeon, and the other doctors in the group might be interested in other branches of medicine. These doctors in the group practice are able to confer with each other on certain cases that might present some difficulty. This gives greater medical care and service to the people as a whole. In most of those cases one would not describe as a specialist the doctor who had reached a higher degree of expertise in his particular field. Nor would any future committee on health matters so describe him. This is one of the reasons why I believe we should be very careful about this question of how far we go in relation to differential fees. 
This comment applies particularly to country districts. Many country towns cannot afford to have specialists. Of course, some of the bigger towns such as Tamworth have specialists but many other places have not and they depend upon the local doctor for all medical services. In these cases people should not have to be sent all the way to the capital city to receive specialist attention. There is always a danger in the way we are proceeding at the present time. However, 1 disagree with the remarks made by the Minister. I think that there is a danger that publicity and the wrong use of the common fee system will drive people into the hands of the specialist, whether he is capable or not. Many people will say. 1 will go to a specialist. It will not cost me any more.' People will go to him simply because he is a specialist, and this is wrong in my opinion. Therefore t hope that the Minister will have a further look at these matters. Other than that. I think this Bill is a splendid advance in our health scheme. 
I only have a few minutes to say what I want to say. In the first place I agree entirely with what the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  said. I appeal to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  to take a very early opportunity to have a further look at the Schedule which we are discussing at the present time. It is much too late, of course, to make amendments now or attempt to make amendments in relation to this Schedule. In my opinion there is ample room in this Schedule for many amendments to be made for the benefit of the people of Australia. The Schedule, as it is at present, is entirely wrong and will do, in my opinion, inestemable damage to the general practitioners of Australia. It was quite clear to me in the time that I had to look at thus Bill that the Government has relied on the advice of the Federal Council of the Australian Medical Association, which Council is at present dominated by the specialists of Australia. 
It is also clear to me that notwithstanding the amount of work that has been put into this Bill by general practitioners very little consideration has been given to representation that they have made. Notwithstanding that, I believe that the medical care of the people of Australia is dependent very largely upon the medical general practitioner of Australia. Because of this 1 believe that the Government has not given proper consideration to the representations of the general practitioners in Australia. There is no need for the kind of differential we see in the Schedule. The benefits which the people will derive from this Bill are very great and the Government is to be commended for this, but those benefits should be related to the procedure, not the kind of medical man who performs the procedure. So I mink there is a great need to amend the Schedule. If that cannot be done the Minister should accept the recommendation of the Australian Medical Association that the benefits for all those procedures normally undertaken by a general practitioner should be fixed at the lower level. All those procedures which are generally undertaken by a specialist should be fixed at the higher level. There should be no differentia] - one rate for the general practitioner and another for the specialist. This is not necessary in the 2 categories I have mentioned. Of course, some consideration might have to be given to the case of specially qualified general practitioners who carry out procedures usually undertaken by specialists. You may find this happening in a group practice. In the middle group of procedures, where about 50% are carried out by general practitioners and 50% or a little more by specialists, there may be some reason for having a differential. 
This matter should be examined closely and the differential reduced to the absolute minimum because in my opinion it is not necessary to discriminate in this way. To do so will have a very serious effect on the status of general practitioners in Australia. I place these words of warning on record because I believe this differential to be an error in what is otherwise a magnificent piece of legislation which will be of great benefit to the people of Australia. I hope that this matter will be further examined by the Minister and that the anomaly to which I have referred will be rectified. It would be a sad day for Australia if we were to lose the kind of medical care that can be provided by the general practitioner. This is much more than a matter of medicine in its true sense. I am talking about the family doctor who can guide people in their medical needs. This matter goes far beyond the kind of procedure that can be listed in the Schedule. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Macarthur who pointed to the difficulties that have arisen in other countries where the concept of the general practitioner has been lost. Canada, for instance, has seen the error of its ways and is now seeking to encourage the general practitioner. In my view the one fault of this Bill is that it places too much emphasis on the specialist and gives too little encouragement to the general practitioner. I do not think the general practitioner's representations have been given proper consideration. 
That is so. I have nothing against the specialist. We need him for certain more highly skilled procedures, but this does not mean- 
The public receives a benefit. Members of the public would benefit more from my suggestion than they will under the Schedule as it now stands. There is no need to have a differential between the benefit paid for a procedure performed by a general practitioner and that paid for the same procedure performed by a specialist. This matter can be rectified. The Government has given an undertaking that it will follow closely the operations of the legislation. The Minister has power to vary the Schedule by regulation. I sincerely hope that he will take an early opportunity to do so. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the Minister aware that, notwithstanding all the promises that have been made to do everything possible to minimise the noise of aircraft landing at Mascot and the investigations of a special parliamentary committee, the noise continues without abatement and sometimes beyond human endurance? As this problem is assuming the dimensions of a local emergency, what positive action is the Government contemplating? 
This is a very important measure wilh which we are dealing at present. I must congratulate the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on his speech. It was a well thought out contribution and he dealt wilh a very important subject concerning the people of Australia. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  also gave an interesting speech dealing particularly with, and giving as an example, an institution with which he is familiar. I must say I did not follow too much of what the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  said. We are dealing with the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill which provides - I state this merely for the record - assistance for capital works and equipment of $2 for every Si that is provided by authorised organisations. These organisations include religious bodies, voluntary citizens' organisations, RSL groups, and, I am pleased to see, local government in its own right. The Bill provides for children up to 21 years of age, and persons over 21 years of age if they have already commenced training :n an institution. This clause dealing with assistance to those up to 21 years of age is better than the comparable provision of most of the States. I do not know whether the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  realises that it is more liberal in relation to the age factor. To extend the assistance given to handicapped children to those 21 years of age is an excellent scheme. It can be extended beyond that age in certain cases. 
This is legislation that was promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in the October election and is just another new break-through by this Government. This is one of several completely new breakthroughs for which this Government is responsible in the field of social security. I think we are very fortunate to have a Prime Minister who is dedicated to this kind of thing and to have the Department represented by my colleague, the Minister for Social Services. I do not think anyone in Australia would challenge that the Minister's heart is in assisting the people. He has a sympathetic heart and one needs that when administering legislation of this character. I know he will do his very best on behalf of the people who so much need that help. This Government will go down in history not only for this measure but for the social security it has brought to the people of Australia. One has only to refer, for instance, to the rehabilitation assistance that has been given and the recent assistance to sheltered workshops. They are growing tip and the contribution they are making at the present time to production in this country was unthought of many years ago. 
Even in the fields of social services and repatriation innovations have been introduced by way of legislation. We are breaking through in a new way to meet the needs of people who require our assistance. We have before us now, but not yet completed, medical and hospital benefits legislation which is again new legislation. This a breakthrough for the permanent social security of the people of this country. In other fields, such as education, we have done immense things. We have provided assistance to private schools, which has been a magnificent thing, and in the home ownership fields we have done a great deal. I do not want to expand on that. One can remember the initiation by this Government of assistance to aged citizens, enabling them to acquire a home. I mentioned these things to justify my statement that this Government will go down in history for its forward moves in social security. This Bill is just another example of what it is doing. 
Help for handicapped children is one of the outstanding social problems of our age. I believe it has been largely neglected by all governments in our past history and, indeed, one can go beyond that and say that it has been neglected by most countries until recent years. At the present time there is not only in this country but in many countries throughout the world an upsurge of understanding of the problem. This is very good to see. In this country I know there are many things to be done but there is certainly an upsurge of interest. We would like to know the extent of the problem and whilst we have learnt many ways in which to deal with it we still do nol know all the answers to the problem. At the same time, great results have been achieved, particularly with the sheltered workshops. What has happened in the past in problems of this kind? 
When I speak of handicapped children  i  include mentally and physically handicapped children, those who are partially handicapped or partially retarded, those who are chronically affected in various ways and those who are temporarily affected but who can permanently overcome their disabilities. Then, of course, we have those with permanent disabilities. There is such a variety in this field of handicap both in adults and in children throughout the country. I heard the figures which I think the honourable member for Oxley quoted of some investigation that took place, lt is quite true that over 20% of the population of this country is affected by some handicap or another, physical or mental. One would hardly realise this but it is quite true. One wonders what happened to those people in past ages. We know that the problem and the responsibility have rested upon the families of people who have been handicapped. 
Permanently handicapped children of past days were hidden in the back room and not brought out to the light of day, as though it was some blemish upon their character or something to be ashamed of for a child to be deformed or affected in some way. This was the approach in many years past where the child was left in a back room, so to speak, not to be seen by people and not. to bp. recognised or known. There they lived their lives until they passed away. They were loved no doubt by their parents and those closely associated with them, but nothing was done for them. When those who were perhaps slightly mentally retarded - and this country is full of such people today - went to school, because of some mental disability they were put down as dunces and placed at the bottom of the class. They were never recognised, as they lived their adult life, as people with ability to do things. It affected their make-up psychologically to the extent that they have not had a fair go in life. These things have happened. One has only to reflect - and I was Minister for the Army for 8 years - on the enormously high percentage of young men in this country who cannot pass an examination that a normal child of 10 could pass. We have tens of thousands of these people in this country. 1 mention these matters to place emphasis upon the range of the problem of people who suffer from some handicap. I do not believe that the public at large or, indeed, governments reflect sufficiently on this or are even aware of the extent of the problem. It is not properly understood by the people of Australia or of most countries. We know of the physically handicapped, those with deformed limbs and bodies, those with ear, nose and throat affections - I have one myself now - and those who are partly or perhaps acutely affected, and wc know of the abnormalities that are created at birth. We see the number of people injured in accidents becoming greater and greater. We read the papers and see the numbers that are affected by accidents throughout this country every year. These people are left in most cases with some disabilities or disfiguration, which has a vast effect upon their psychological outlook on life. Then there are the mentally handicapped. This disability is frequently linked with a physical handicap. There is an enormous range of disabilities in this regard. I do not propose to mention all of them, but if honourable members study this subject they will find that there is an enormous number of disabilities ranging from the incurable through those who are wholly or partially disabled to those who are affected in a slight way. 
I have mentioned before in this Parliament the problem of the dyslectic child. These children are intelligent - some are highly intelligent- but they are unable to learn to read. They are unable to play certain games properly because there is just some little twist or blockage which affects them. As I have said, these children in the past were put at the bottom of the class and were looked down upon. Great things can be done for these children to help them to lead normal (ives and contribute to the affairs of this country. I believe that this in itself is a tremendous problem. There is no doubt that in the past parents of these children have suffered tremendously and have borne the brunt without help of any kind from governments or anywhere else. Parents have to give a great deal of time to assist the children in learning to read and speak. I believe that there is an awakening of the public in relation to these problems. People are beginning to realise that this is not only the responsibility of parents but is a community responsibility that we all must bear. The people of Australia must bear it both through their Government and as individuals. It is not something that should be made a subject of political propaganda. This is a case where the Government and Opposition ought to join hands because it is a problem which affects so many people and is of such proportion throughout the world. 
The benefits that are to be derived from this action are not only the human understanding and help for our fellow man, but also the economic and the national good that can be achieved for this country. We could achieve this by spending money, but we do not need only to spend money. We need to awaken the people to their community responsibility. In the past there has been an enormous economic waste, but a great benefit could accrue to this country. In the past no effort has been made to create for these human beings a better way of life. If this is done now they will be able to achieve more and to produce more in an economic sense. Many handicapped people can be educated and trained to contribute tremendously to our production if they are given the guidance and the opportunity to do so. They have never been given this opportunity in the past. As I have said, the Government has already given great help in providing sheltered workshops, but much more has to be done. 
There are new organisations arising in all States. In my own State there is the Subnormal Children's Welfare Organisation and the Wheelchair and Disabled Association of Australia. In my own electorate, as in the electorate of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  we have some excellent organisations such as the Sunshine Homes at Gore Hill, which are very old and well known. The Crowle House at 
Ryde is a very well known organisation which has done magnificent work in the past. Another one of which 1 am patron has been established at Epping, ft is called Karonga and it was started only a few years ago. Unlike some of the other organisations, this organisation places no restriction whatever on the type of disability. It has grown to such proportions that it is almost impossible to keep pace with it. The Karonga House Special School for Handicapped Children has not been able to keep pace with requirements, but there has been enormous assistance from Rotary clubs. Lions clubs, local bowling clubs and sporting bodies in its maintenance. These bodies hold functions and they have created an enormous local public impression. The State Government also helps up to a point. The legislation with which we are dealing is a godsend to these people because it means that they will be able to increase enormously the number of children maintained in that home. It is a very well and efficiently run home. Notwithstanding that, there are many tens of thousands of children who are waiting to find a place to which they can go. There is indeed an urgent need for us to have full information in this respect. I do not think that there is any need for the amendment that was moved by the honourable member, because 1 believe that the Department has this matter well in hand now. 
It is doing much at the present time, but there is still a great need to find out exactly the extent of the problem, not only of handicapped children about whom we are talking in this Bill but also of handicapped people in all aspects and in all grades throughout Australia. There is need for a survey to be made in this regard. 1 believe that there is an enormous need for co-operation with the States which from a constitutional point of view are responsible. 1 do not think that we should foist the responsibility upon their shoulders. At the same time, we must have complete co-operation between the Commonwealth and Stales on this matter. I know the extent to which the Department is making a  survey  at the present time, but 1 also think that this might be extended in the manner I have mentioned, because there are no reliable or complete statistics in any State, or in the Commonwealth itself on the needs and extent of this matter. I believe that this is essential and I believe that it is urgent. I would suggest to the Minister for Social Services - I know he will do this - that he might start on that sort of basis. 1 know that much is already being done in the Scandinavian countries and in -the United States of America. 1 have here a very interesting book. 1 do noi know if any honourable members have read it. I am just about to hand it back to the Library, so it will be available for honourable members to have a look at it. lt is called 'Guidelines for State Plan Programmes for Education of Handicapped Children'. The United States has set up special organisations to get co-operation of (he States and so forth. It is very interesting to see what they are doing in relation to this. This sort of thing should be encouraged. In New South Wales we have the Specific Learning Difficulties Association, which is known as SPELD, dealing with the dyslexic child that I mentioned earlier in my speech. This organisation is particularly for dyslectic children and it is doing a magnificent job. I believe that it needs help not only from the public but from the Government. In March this year - to give some idea of the extent of the public interest in this matter - the organisation held a meeting with a guest  speaker  at the Sydney Town Hall. Over 2.500 people crushed into that meeting. 
I know that all States are doing something, bin the difficulty is that in each State there is a different approach. Co-ordination is needed to bring the programmes into line. The New South Wales Government is doing splendidly. I pay a tribute to the Minister for Child Welfare and the Minister for Social Welfare,  Mr Hewitt,  who is a personal friend of mine. 1 also pay a tribute to his predecessor, Arthur Bridges, who unfortunately died. They really gol to work and started doing things in New South Wales. But it is the lack of co-ordination between the different States and the Commonwealth that needs tightening up. I hope that the States, because of the relief they will get in their capital expenditure, do not reduce the amount that they spend already - a possibility that the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech. This amount could very well go to assistance in maintenance. But the States will be the best judges of that. Above all 1 believe that there  is  a great need for national co-operation. 
The Bill has been brought forward by the Department of Social Services, but I think honourable members may gather from what I have said that the problem of handicapped children is not one for only the Department of Social Services. It is a problem throughout Australia which should call for the attention and co-ordination, not only of the States and the Commonwealth, but of the Department of Social Services, the Department of Health, the Department of Education and Science and the Treasury. It is not a problem that affects only one department. Therefore the departments should get together on it. Overall I congratulate the Minister and the Government on a magnificent forward move into a field that is of enormous importance to the people of Australia. I am glad to see that the Government is awakening. This is one matter we do not want to make into a political football and a matter on which we do not want to criticise each other. It is one in relation to which we want to offer a hand of help, advice and suggestions. Therefore let us face up to the problem as a national Parliament because I believe it  is  not only a human problem but a problem of tremendous economic importance to Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 5.54 to 8 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. The Minister will appreciate that a taxpayer who has a dependent child up to 21 years of age engaged in full time studies is allowed a $300 deduction from his income tax return, but immediately the student becomes 21 the deduction is disallowed. Is the Minister aware- 
Has the Minister for External Affairs been advised that  Mr Vrettos,  an Australian citizen, has been placed under supervision by the Government of Greece? What is the Australian Government doing to protect this Australian citizen? 
 I will not keep honourable members for very long. I think honourable members know that J am a very kindly and co-operative person. I like to fit in with what people desire. I have been torn between the ideas of the honourable members who live a long way away and want to get home and those who do not. 1 think what convinced me was when my friend the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  disclaimed the idea and said that he would go home anyhow. I think this attitude is pretty right. I think honourable members will find that this will happen in any case. I do not think there is any real merit in the scheme now before the House. Perhaps honourable members are attracted to it because it is a new idea and they may gain some benefits here and there. But I believe that what appeals to most honourable members who are going to support the motion is that they will get home for a week every second week instead of every third week. Of course, these honourable members want to get home. But I cannot see that we are going to carry out any further parliamentary duties under the proposed scheme. I think that the proposed scheme will disorganise the arrangements in our electorates that have been carried out for many years. 
It is not easy to get people to change attitudes and patterns that have been adopted over many years. They wonder why a change is necessary. I would not mind sitting in the Parliament for 4 days over a period of 3 weeks, in the same way as we have been doing, but even that is not a very effective method. I would not mind sitting for 3 days a week right through the session, as has been suggested. More work might be done in that way. However, I agree with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  that that does involve difficulties for some members and it might not result in efficiency. I have given a great deal of thought to the matter. Frankly 1 do not see any great benefit in the propoasls. I therefore inform the House that even though I am co-operative, I propose to vote against the motion. 
Motion (by  Mr Fox)  proposed: 
That  the debate be now adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  when the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  spoke in this debate last night, he was rather caustic in his remarks about the National Service Act which he described, I think, as a cancer eating into our national life. He said that it should be abandoned. In fact, he called it an infliction on the nation and asked for its repeal. It is difficult to understand his attitude because the honourable member has just returned from a visit to South East Asia as a result of which he made some very extraordinary statements in relation to Cambodia. I felt that his visit would have changed his mind in relation to the National Service Act. The honourable member found in Cambodia that blatant aggression against that country was being carried out by the Communists and the North Vietnamese. The same situation is to be found in South Vietnam. 
Perhaps last night the honourable member for Wills was anticipating the matter and was trying to get back onto the bandwagon so that he might take part in the moratorium celebrations which will occur shortly. The honourable member spoke also about bringing our servicemen home from Vietnam. He said that the solution to the conflict there would not be a military one. The attitude of the Australian Labor Party on this matter is difficult to understand. After all, the decision to reintroduce national service was taken because Australia must have national service to meet the commitments that it has made. At the request of the South Vietnamese, the Australian Government agreed to join with the Americans in attempting to defend South Vietnam and to preserve the independence of that young country. Essential to our ability to do this was the reintroduction of the National Service Act. This was done because it was impossible to recruit into the Australian Regular Army the number of men required in order to carry out that promise. Therefore, the young men of Australia were called upon to serve in the Army under the terms of the National Service Act. This is not, as some people try to describe it, an ordinary training scheme. It is a scheme designed to fill the gaps in the numbers of men required to meet our commitment in South Vietnam. It is the result of a decision made by a properly elected government. I can understand that people have differing opinions in relation to it. Some members of the Opposition, including the honourable member for Wills, have encouraged young men, in the name of Australia, to disobey this law. In my opinion that is almost criminal. It is dreadful to think that a man like the Premier of South Australia could say that he would advise his son to disobey the law in respect to the National Service Act. The position has been created where many people who do not understand the implications of their actions have created disturbances and adopted an attitude that they would not otherwise have adopted had they not been encouraged to do so by people in high places, including the honourable member for Wills. It is disgraceful. The Government has been properly constituted and it has made its decision in the proper way. National Service has been provided for by law, and the law should be obeyed. Surely there is nothing unreasonable in the young men of any country being called upon to defend their country. That is the basis of the National Service Act. 
The annual debate on the Budget is coming to an end. Much has been said both for and against the Budget that has been presented. People are mostly concerned with how it affects them personally, but the Opposition must not take it to mean that if people are dissatisfied with one or more matters contained in the Budget they are dissatisfied with the Government. I suppose it is natural that people would like to see certain things changed. I would, too. So would everybody else on both the Government and Opposition sides. But this is a Budget which has been prepared by the Government. While people may be concerned with how it affects them personally, that is not to say that they disagree with the Government. What is a Budget? It is merely a statement by an elected government to show its programme for the year - what it intends to do and how it proposes to get the money to carry out that programme. That is a simple explanation of a Budget. It is an honest judgment of what the Government considers best for the country as a whole. I do not think anybody could dispute that. I do not think it could be said that members of the Government or the Cainbet are men who are prepared to do dishonest things. They consider on the information available to them that this is the best that can be done in the interests of the country. The Government must take responsibility for the conduct of the country's affairs. It must protect the stability of the economy, which is paramount for everyone in Australia regardless of his walk of life or what he is doing. The Government must ensure that rewarding employment is available for the citizens. It has done that in the Budget. We have a condition of full employment, which indicates that in the past the Government's judgment on this matter has been good. This country is in a state of great prosperity. Tt is the responsibility of the Government to ensure development and progress for the future benefit of all. This is a very important matter for a young, growing country like Australia. 
There will always be criticism and differences of opinion, lt is quite right that they should be expressed. In the present circumstances I believe that this is a well balanced and good Budget, even though ! should have preferred to see certain matters changed. The function of the Opposition is to oppose the Budget. Generally speaking, the Budget debate gives the Opposition an opportunity to state what it would do if it was the Government, because the Opposition aspires to become the Government Party. Very little has been said about what the Opposition would do. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has moved an amendment asking the Parliament to condemn the Government for what he calls the deceptive and negative Budget. I do not think he should have used the word deceptive' because that is nol a proper parliamentary approach by a man who aspires to be Prime Minister. Anybody may call the Budget negative. The Leader of the Opposition gives as his reason that it fails to meet the needs of the people in relation to social services, repatriation, assistance to schools, hospitals, urban authorities and the restructuring of primary industries, and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges. T suppose that is the usual way that motions for amendment: are presented. 
Let us look a! some of the arguments used by the Leader of the Opposition. He made a very important and extraordinary statement for a Leader of the Opposition. He said: 'Our purpose is to destroy the Budget and the Government.' The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  made a speech on this theme. He was quite right. In my opinion, the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition was a most irresponsible one for a man who aspires to be Prime Minister of Australia. He did not say that he had something better to offer to the people. All he wants is power to become the Prime Minister of Australia and to bring into effect policies that he did not mention in his speech. It is easy for an opposition to be critical, to pick out the points of disagreement and play up to sections of the community to create dissatisfaction in their minds. The Opposition has no responsibility, lt can say anything to stir up emotions and annoyance in the people. It can promise anything - it frequently does - to try to convince the people that it would be a better alternative government. The people should beware of statements made by the Opposition in a Budget debate because they cannot assume that the Opposition's promises are what they would get if that Opposition became the Government. lt is difficult to understand the criticism of the Leader of the Opposition of the reduction in taxation. He used very dramatic words and called it a play to the greedy and stupid. These are not words one would expect from a Leader of the Opposition who is aspiring to become Prime Minister. How absurd can one gel? This is merely a political trick that he is using to try to stir up class distinction in relation to the reduction in taxation. He has adopted the theme that a man on a low income receives a smaller reduction in taxation than a man on a higher income. This is only natural. The Leader of the Opposition plays up the idea of class distinction. 1 suppose there would not. be a taxpayer in Australia who would not agree that there was great need to reduce tax on lower and middle incomes. This is something with which everybody agrees. The Prime Minister promised to make this reduction over a period of 3 years but to his and the Government's credit he did it in I year. This 10 per cent reduction of the worker's income tax is a substantial reduction. It will be of great help and will be an incentive, which is important, to the worker. It must be remembered that this affects the great bulk of Australian taxpayers. It tapers down to a lesser reduction for those on the higher incomes. Incidentally, company taxation has been increased and this affects company profits. Taxation reductions for lower and middle income earners were not only essential but. in my opinion, will be very beneficial indeed. Notwithstanding his political ambitions, one would have expected that the Leader of the Opposition would have applauded this and not derided it as he did. One just does not understand his attitude. 
He then went on to criticise the increase in indirect taxation on cigarettes, wine, motor cars and so forth. Of course this increases the cost of living for those who buy those items but this does not mean that it affects everybody who receives a reduction of income tax. Some people may not buy these things; I do not know. It does not mean that had there not been a reduction of income tax these imposts would not have been made. Some of the items affected are essential, some are luxuries. No-one likes these increases - I do not - but the money must come from somewhere to meet necessary increases of expenditure such as in health and social services. People get a wrong impression. Governments do not have money of their own; they only have money they get from the people by way of taxation. The Leader of the Opposition does not say where he would get the money to avoid imposing these increases which he so vehemently criticised. 
He speaks of the credit squeeze and higher interest rates as being unnecessary, particularly as they apply to housing. Why does he pick out housing? It is because he is playing politics and he knows that interest rates which affect so many people are an emotional area. Therefore he plays politics and places the emphasis upon increases in interest rates for housing finance. But the increased interest rate applied to everything in the country. I did not hear htm say anything about higher interest rates being paid by industries struggling to survive or the producers of essential commodities. The Government's housing record is a very good one indeed because in the period it has been in office there has been a growth of home ownership. This arises from the encouragement of home building and the availability of finance for this purpose, so that we have reached the point where we have a greater percentage of" home ownership than any other country has. Tn this sphere large sums of money are made available through the CommonwealthStates Housing Agreement. The Government is providing large sums of money to the States and to home owners at a rate that is 1 per cent below the long term bond rate. 
The Leader of the Opposition knows these things and he knows that every country has increased taxation. It is done because of the real danger of inflation in this country and if these actions were not taken inflation would destroy the value of the workers' wages. The Government simply had to make these unpopular decisions because it bears the responsibility for the sake of everyone in the community. But the Leader of the Opposition did not care, as long as he thought he could score politically. Still playing politics, he referred to a health tax although there is no mention of a health tax in the Budget. This gave him an opportunity to parade his Party's scheme for a compulsory health fund. Our scheme is voluntary; people may join if they wish. But the Labor Party's scheme is a compulsory one to which everyone must subscribe. Of course, this is in line with its Socialist policies. We all know what this means. It means centralising all health controls in Canberra. It means nationalising all doctors, all hospitals, all medicines that we take and the production of medicines. The effect of this kind of health service on the individual is dreadful to contemplate and I hope that people will never be deceived by the scheme the Labor Party has put forward. Centralisation of control is the Labor Party's policy. 
I am telling you what the Leader of the Opposition thinks about the Budget. I am taking his speech apart. Again a violent attack is made on what he calls the budgetary policy of this Government in relation to the proposed receipts duty tax. I will not say much more about this. He knew full well when he made this statement and placed great emphasis on it that the Commonwealth was merely acting as an agent for the States which previously levied this duty, found it to be illegal and asked the Commonwealth to do certain things. The Government agreed. Why he should take this attitude T shall never know. 
I do not. The sanctity of the Budget is a term that was used. The Leader of the Opposition poohpoohs the idea that a proper calculation is made in the income and expenditure accounts presented to the Parliament and says they are just political and social decisions. I do not think any member of the Parliament should come into this place and make statements like that. It is just not proper in my opinion, not even parliamentary, to call the presentation of authorised accounts merely a political and social decision. How irresponsible can a Leader of the Opposition who is trying to be Prime Minister gel? His inference is that if a government wants to do so it can spend as much as it likes and impose taxes or issue Treasury notes in order to gel the money. In other words, the stability of the economy does not matter. This is the whole tenor of the Opposition's case. I ask the people: Can Australia trust such a man or such a Party? No, it cannot. 
In dealing with the tremendously important field of social welfare the Leader of the Opposition again came forward -with a most confused dissertation that I could not understand. I do nol. think anybody could understand it. He recommended some extraordinary things. Firstly, he said in effect that he wants to establish a retraining programme to teach old people how to live in a Socialist society. The impertinence of it! Secondly, he referred to a national superannuation plan. A lot of honourable members agree with this idea but the Leader of the Opposition does not go info the economics of it. Such a plan would disturb the whole economy and has to be well thought through. On the abolition of the means test the Leader of the Opposition is again just playing to the people because it is not possible - and the people should know that it is not possible - to abolish the means test completely at this time, although this Government has over and over again relieved certain aspects of the means test year by year in every Budget. But what he really means is that Labor stands for a Socialist State and in this Socialist State he is prepared to destroy the dignity of the individual and private enterprise will become a crime. 
would like to see certain other improvements in the social service and social welfare legislation, particularly for old people, but this is my personal opinion and it is not backed, as it should be, by the information that is available to the Government.  J would  have liked to see more encouragement for families because there are certain categories of people in this country for whom special attention is needed. Of course, the Government has given a lot of attention to this matter over the years with homes for aged persons and so on but there is still a lot more to be done for our old people. Neither the Opposition nor the Government is giving proper attention to the encouragement of larger families in this country. I do not think anybody appreciates to the full what the mothers of large families suffer. To my way of thinking, it would be very much better to spend some of the millions provided in this Budget to encourage larger families. We could. of course, spend the lot. While it costs a certain amount to bring an immigrant into this country, it should cost no more and. I would say, somewhat less to produce more people of our own if people were given encouragement to have larger families. But there are many people opposed to this. The best way to increase Australia's population and to get a better kind of person would be to encourage bigger families through child endowment. 
Then we had the Leader of the Opposition getting on to one of his hobby horses, namely, civic government, urban development and payments to the States. I have no time to spend on this at the moment - I hope to speak to it during the debate on the Estimates - but he is quite clear in his attitude. His idea is to abolish State governments altogether and control everything from Canberra. According to him ali land development is to be by Commonwealth resumption and handled through a central bureaucracy, lt is about time Labor realised, as 1 am sure it does not, that the troubles from which we are suffering now in relation to land prices and so forth are very largely due to the interference by Governments in the past. In a later speech I will trace this back to the Labor Government which initiated it and to certain things that this government does. Certainly it is due also to the State planning authorities and other such bodies which have restricted the proper free flow of land in the community. But the Opposition does not understand this, ft has no idea. It favours anything for restriction and control. 
Of course, Labor had very little to say on defence. The only thing it seemed to place emphasis on was increased pay for servicemen. I think they should be well paid. I have always advocated this but there is a limit to which one can go. Labor does not seem to realise that a policy of tak inn payment for Service people away altogether from the standards of pay in civil employment and in private enterprise could be very damaging. It would be a dreadful thing if we had competition between governments and private enterprise in a condition of over-full employment in the community. The effect upon the economy of this sort of thing would be devastating so we have to be careful. As I have only a couple of minutes left I just want to referto the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition in relation to social conduct, law and order and the trade union movement; these remarks were really conspicuous by their absence. The only thing he did was to defend the attitude of  Mr Hawke  on strikes. I was interested to receive a pamphlet from the Pensioner Community Service the other day which said: 

 Mr Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, is using every group to further his political ambitions - we say political not industrial - because it is obvious that  Mr Hawke  is usurping the role of Leader of the Opposition. 
I think that is pretty right, but in any event the Leader of the Opposition defends the attitude of  Mr Hawke  on strikes. It occurred to me that  Mr Hawke  could have made a real killing if, instead of advising 1 million or more workers to strike for 3 hours as a protest against the Government, he had asked those workers to donate 3 hours of their work time to the old people of Australia. If he had done that, and assuming that $3 each were contributed by over 1 million people, that would have amounted to $3m. The Government would then have been forced into the position of giving $2 for every $1 for homes for aged persons. This would have meant another S6m or, in other words, $9m would have been available. That would build about 2,000 homes for aged people in Australia. This would have been a great contribution and one wonders why it was not done. I am not suggesting that people should be obliged to do this sort of thing but it would have been infinitely better understood by the people of Australia than was the calling of a 3-hour strike to disrupt the business of Australia and to destroy, in certain respects, the production of Australia. These are the things we are up against. It will be interesting to see what the Leader of the Opposition will do about this matter of law and order because he has some explanations to make to me. Apparently he is in line with  Mr Trudeau,  because he has made a statement that there is no place for the courts in the bedrooms of the nation. I wonder what he means by that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Is the PostmasterGeneral aware that the paper known as the 'Open Road' is of great educational value to motorists and is an effective deterrent to traffic offences which cause so much loss of life in this country? Is he aware that the recently announced postal rates will increase the costs to the National Roads and Motorists Association, in posting this paper to motorists, from $100,000 to $275,000 per annum? As it will not be possible for the NRMA to meet all of this cost in 1 year, will the Minister consider the application of a special rate or a graduated increase in the charge to this worthy organisation? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  must have spent quite a little time writing the episode that he just read to us but I would advise him that if he wants to be effective in presenting something good that he writes he should learn to read it properly because, after all is said and clone, members would like to know what he is talking about. Half the time I did not know what he was talking about and T wonder whether he did himself. 
Is that it? I did pick up one or two matters that he mentioned. He spoke about the parlous state of the building industry. This is a lot of nonsense. The building industry is extremely active throughout Australia. It is most difficult in any of the capital cities to find good tradesmen to employ. Every builder is experiencing difficulty in getting the kind of men he wants - men capable of doing the job. In many cases builders are forced into employing people who are not competent at the work the builders want them to do. This is because the building industry is, in fact, in an active condition throughout Australia. The honourable member for Swan spoke of the long waiting list for Housing Commission homes. This was mentioned also by the 3 Labor speakers. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  mentioned it and I think that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  spoke of the long waiting list for Housing Commission homes in the various States. This is a regular contention that members opposite put forward, but it would be interesting if they obtained a list of the people who have applied for homes through the Housing Commissions. Almost everybody who is renting a home in any of the suburbs in any of the capital cities would be an applicant for a subsidised home. 
lt is true. There are tens of thousands of people on the waiting list for Commission homes who do not really need them. This is an absurd argument to put forward as an indication of a shortage of homes. The Labor Party is trying to prove that there is a shortage of homes in Australia. 
There is no shortage of homes. There are certain problems, but there is no shortage of homes per capita in Australia. There may be certain reasons why applicants for homes want to change their accommodation, but the big inducement is that they are seeking from the Housing Commissions homes that have a subsidised rental. Who would not want such a home? Who can blame them for it? This is understandable. The honourable member for Swan spoke also of people being forced into high density housing. One of the troubles in Australia is that many of the people who talk about this subject know nothing about it. This is a pity because it is an important subject. 
L wonder whether the honourable member for Swan realises that when capital cities like Sydney and Melbourne are fully developed it is impossible to do as he suggests in relation to the age old tradition of a man, his home and his garden. The tradition is fine, and I agree with it, but no city in the world can avoid high density housing. The honourable member must understand that at least 25 per cent of the population in any city in the world must, of necessity, live in flats, units or similar accommodation because of the particular circumstances in which they live. Proximity to work and the need for all manner of things require them to live on their own so, in this sort of circumstance, high density housing is a necessity for 25 per cent of the population. I base this claim on many years of experience. 
The honourable member for Stirling said that the Government deals with housing as though it were an economic factor and not a human problem. I agree that it is a human problem - perhaps one of the most important that we have - but it is also very materially an economic consideration. I do not know whether the Opposition realises the effect which the building industry has on the economy. It has probably the greatest effect of any industry in Australia. If the building industry is in a condition of over-production it can create an inflationary trend, which is very serious for the community. On the other hand, if the building industry is in a state of depression it can cause a depression in almost every other industry in Australia. The building industry is a great guide* - probably the greatest guide - in making economic adjustments, and it must be kept stable in order to create and maintain economic stability in the community. Honourable members opposite should understand these things when they talk about the building industry. 
I understand that the honourable member for Reid has moved for an inquiry into housing. If we do not know the present position with regard to the provision of homes in Australia, we ought not to be where we are at the present time. Save me from- any further inquiries, and for goodness sake save me from some of the planners in the community. I believe that the provision of housing is one of the important needs of human life. I believe also that the standard of housing in any community is a measure of the country's prosperity. In this respect Australia stands very high indeed when compared with other countries. This Government adopts a policy of encouragement of home ownership. This has never been the fundamental policy of the Australian Labor Party. The Labor Party, when it was in office, did everything it could to prevent home ownership in the true sense. It went out to encourage people to rent homes. This is fundamentally opposed to our policy. 
As I have mentioned, there has been a tremendous increase in the standard of housing in Australia. When one looks at the standard of homes that are being built today in any suburb in any city of Australia, one sees that in most cases today the homes are being constructed of bricks and have tiled roofs. Hot water systems, which were never thought of years ago, are now provided in homes. Washing machines, tiled bathrooms, electric ranges and all the other amenities which women did not enjoy previously are now provided in homes. Today people demand a high standard of housing and they are getting it. 
Since this Government came to office  21  years ago it has never let up on the construction of homes. Tt has done more for housing than any other government in the  180  or  200  years of Australia's history. When Labor was in office the construction rate was  1  house for every additional  4  members in the population. In the period that this Government has been in office the construction rate has been  1  House for every  2.5  additional members of population. These figures speak for themselves and indicate quite clearly that there is no physical housing shortage. I know that there are housing problems today. Of course, the investor normally is not building houses for renting purposes. That was killed by Labor. I do not want to go into the question of incentive because I have not sufficient time to do so today, but I would deal with my statement that there is no physical housing shortage in Australia. This is true if one takes the population and the number of homes in existence. 
There are problems. The great problem is the accommodation of the very low income group, the indigent group in the community. This is a difficult problem and it is one which governments can help to overcome. Somebody said that housing is a State matter, but I hope that the Commonwealth will interest itself in the provision of low income housing for indigent people because I think there is a problem here which needs to be met. I hope that our future housing agreements with the States will be based solely on the provisions of low income housing for indigent people. 
At a low interest rate, lt is not a question of interest rate at all. lt is a question of the provision of low rental homes to meet the circumstances of indigent people on low incomes. This is one problem. Another problem concerns aged people, and I suggest that the Government has tackled this problem very vigorously and effectively. Until this Government conceived the idea pf providing homes for the aged, which was a magnificent proposal, nothing was done for the aged in Australia. The Government encouraged philanthropic organisations, churches and now municipal bodies throughout Australia to come to the party and assist in the provision of homes for the aged. I suggest that it is not too much to ask the community to come to the party because a little self help in this matter is indicated. This Government is very generous in the subsidy which it is providing for the construction of homes for the aged. 
I turn to finance. My friend the honourable member for Reid talked about the deposit gap. Of course, this is always a problem. There is a great cry about higher interest rates; but everything has increased, so why not the price of money? Interest rates have increased in every country. If we want a lower interest rate we have to tax people in order to subsidise the interest rate. I admit that it is only a question of fact, but this Government has done a great_ deal in relation to the deposit gap and interest rates. 
1 will tell the honourable member. The Government has established and encouraged the formation of building societies. These societies work on a very low overhead and they provide loans at comparatively low interest rates. As I have said in this Parliament previously - I have been taken to task for it because some of the banks do not like my saying it - 1 believe the permanent building society movement should be used as the vehicle for the financing of home ownership. It is the best possible vehicle. I would advise every young person to invest some money in the permanent building society movement as a prelude to the acquisition of a home when he or she gets married. Building societies are managed by people who are giving dedicated service without reward. They are not profit making ventures. The societies are providing expertise and an understanding of housing problems and they ought to be encouraged. 
I suggest that people ought to invest money in permanent building societies. If they do so they will receive  6i  per cent interest on their investment, which is the present rate. Savings banks also are providing a service. The homes savings grant scheme, under which young people are encouraged to save, is a product of this Government. Nobody else had thought of it before it was introduced by this Government, lt is a wonderful scheme. This Government also initiated the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. By the payment of H per cent of the total amount of the loan a person may receive an advantage of 95 per cent of the total purchase price of a home. This payment covers the whole period of the 'oan. These are all matters that have been initiated by this Government in order to deal with housing in its broadest sense. 1 could refer to land prices but it would take  a  Iona time. I will have an opportunity to refer to it when we are debating another Bill. The position is not as the honourable member for Reid says it is. This is a problem that we have brought upon ourselves bv our own government interference and controls in th* past. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Services. The Minister may recollect representations I made to him in connection with a subsidy under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act to assist the financing of a major extension to the Karonga House special school for handicapped children at Epping. Difficulties, he will remember, arose- 
 This afternoon we have listened to the usual speeches that we hear from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  both of whom take a lively interest - and it is good to see that they do - in this question of housing. 1 have taken part in this kind of debate for about 21 years. We are discussing the allocation of money under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. T take it that if there were a change of Government the honourable member for Reid would be the Minister for Housing. If his only ideas on housing are those which he expressed when we have debates on housing that would be pathetic for Australia. But 1 do not think that there is any chance of his becoming Minister for Housing because the people are not so foolish as to give him the opportunity to do so. 
I have been thinking about this question, and really I do not want to talk for very long on it. Labor's complaints about housing can be summarised in a number of points. Firstly, honourable members opposite talk about a shortage of accommo dation. I wonder whether they are able to analyse this question. Actually, in Australia today we have an abundance of housing to meet the requirements of the population if we consider the matter from the point of view of the units or houses available compared with the population and apply the usual formula of a unit to every  2i  to 3 people. By doing that one can see that there is ample accommodation in Australia. But many unusual things happen in a time of prosperity. I have been in the housing business for so long that I know that the demand for accommodation is a fluctuating thing. The demand rises and falls with fluctuations in the affluence of the community. 
Today there are tens of thousands of young girls in the community who get together in groups and rent a unit or flat. Also, young men leave home and can afford to set themselves up in a house. This leaves vacant space in the home. This is going on in ali of our cities and it is creating a sort of artificial shortage of housing. I have said before in this House that there is only one real problem in housing - and to the credit of the honourable member for Reid, he mentioned it - and that is the provision of suitable housing for the low income group in the community. 
Do not let anybody get the idea that the standard of housing in Australia is low by world standards. This is not so. As a matter of fact, the standard of housing in Australia is far superior to that in the United States of America, which is one of the richest countries. Only recently I had an American staying with me and he expressed surprise at the standard of housing in Australia. Of course, the standard has risen in recent years. Labor always creates the impression that there are many applicants waiting for Housing Commission homes. This is not a true measure of the shortage of accommodation because a great number of people who apply for Housing Commission homes already are housed although perhaps not as  well as they would be if they were in a new Housing Commission home. Great numbers of people are not really destitute for housing, although some are in great need of accommodation of that kind. 
Labor says that more money should be made available for housing and that wider powers should be given to the Government to enable it to control housing, lt says that the Government should engage itself even more actively than it does today in the field of housing. Labor says that if it were in power it would supply this money and the Government would operate in this way. 
Honourable members opposite have referred to land prices. I wonder whether they really know the cause of the very high land prices in Australia. Land prices in the city of Sydney have increased pro rata to a greater extent than they have in most other cities in Australia, and there is a reason for this. There has been too much government control over the availability of land in Sydney. This happened because of the operations of the Cumberland County Council, to which my friend the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  referred this afternoon. When Labor was in government in New South Wales it introduced the grandiose scheme of providing a green bell around Sydney. This included enormous areas of land that were not made available to the people! It was . a magnificent idea but it broke down because the pressure upon it later forced the release of the land. Then, of course, we had the present State Planning Authority and with great respect to the Authority, it has been a main contributor to the rising costs of land in the city of Sydney. 
There are other factors bearing upon this, many of which date back to Labor control in the past. Labor destroyed, for instance, the incentive tq invest in land by its control system and by the perpetuation of its control system after the war, because even when the wage pegging was lifted and the price controls were lifted it still kept this artificial control upon rents under the rent control system in New South Wales. This had the effect on people who invested for their old age in houses and this kind of investment of destroying that incentive for investment. The people disposed of the houses because of the low incomes from them. They got their capital back and invested it in other things. Running with this was the encouragement for what became fringe banking. We had investment in debentures and what have you, and the great hire purchase organisations grew up because of this controlled system by governments in a field where people's savings, instead of going as of old into investment in land or rent producing property, went into these other avenues which then created another problem. We had an upsurge in the purchase of television sets and motor cars, one or two for each home, and that type of thing. So it went on, and the investments and savings of the people were diverted from the proper place. 
As a result of this we had the great financial organisations buying up large areas of land and locking them up. Running along with this were other government controls, such as War Service Homes which bought big areas, and the housing commissions which bought up big areas. The poor fellow in the street had nowhere to go, and these people were able to lift the prices up to a point where they became uneconomic from the point of view of the individual. This process has been going on to a greater extent in Sydney and to some extent in each of the other cities until land prices have become out of hand. Prices could be reduced tomorrow if sufficient available land were released to bring about a competitive state so that the people would have to sell the land to get their capital back. Much has been made  crf  the question of interest rates. Interest rates were, of course, 3 per cent, and 1 notice the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  criticised this. He said that under the Chifley Government interest rates were only 3 per cent and under this Government they are 6 per cent. Could one imagine a more foolish statement to make? As though the Chifley Government had something to do with keeping the rate of interest down to 3 per cent. 
It did not. I was Chairman of the Sydney County Council and went to America and borrowed S8.5m at 34- per cent and sold it at 101 in 1946. That was at the time Chifley was in power. This was the ruling rate of interest and that is the poInt. Today interest rates all over the world - and this Government has no control over it - have increased. This is a fact that one must face. It is foolish to blame a government for that sort of thing. Then the Opposition talks about the high cost of building, but this has gone up only in accordance with the increased cost of wages and the increased cost of materials, which have gone up because of the cost of wages and so forth. This is only in line with the normal increases in prices in every direction. Labor wants an extension of the housing commission idea into a huge building organisation. I, and I believe other members on this side of the House, am very much opposed to this idea. There is a place for the commission but its place should be confined in my opinion to the production of homes for very low income earners. Homes should be made available to them within their means. It would be interesting if one had time to go back over the history of housing, because I have a very clear recollection of the conditions which have existed in the last 40-odd years since I have been in the business. There has been no shortage of houses except on 2 occasions, one immediately after the First World War and immediately afterthe Second World War. But during the other periods there was a very full supply of homes and there was no finance available from any government anywhere in Australia. It was all done by private enterprise. Private finance was available. 
As I said before, this was an avenue of investment for the people's savings. Of course, the Labor Party has destroyed that and, I think, effectively destroyed it forever, although the permanent building societies are now encouraging further investment of savings. We well recollect that on the origination of this agreement that we are talking about under the postwar reconstruction plan of the Labor Party it was never intended by the Labor Party that we would have in the future the right to private ownership of homes at all. Under MrDedman - I. do not like to repeat this always - who was the Minister for Post War Reconstruction immediately following the war, a scheme was introduced in this Parliament for an Australian commission to deal with the question of housing, and under that scheme no provision whatever was made for encouraging home ownership in Australia. When challenged on it by the then Opposition the Minister's answer contained those famous words: 'We do not want to build up in this country little capitalists'. I do want to build up little capitalists. I think they are the best possible kind of citizens. 
This Government's record is very good indeed. It has encouraged home ownership to the point where it is at the highest level in the world.It has introduced a scheme, which is growing every year, for the provision of homes for the aged. Under this scheme it gives a subsidy of $2 for every $1 self-help by whatever organisation likes to start a scheme. This is growing year by year and providing homes for the aged people. The homes saving grant scheme which was initiated by this Government is a magnificent scheme and an encouragement to young people to save the deposit for when they get married and want to start buying a home. All these matters are directed towards the encouragement of home ownership which in our opinion is the best kind of community to develop. Another scheme this Government has introduced is the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. This scheme effectively enables home buyers to bridge the deposit gap. The premium on a total loan for 30 years, or however many years it is, is at the rate of only11/2 per cent, which is added to the loan and is included inthe weekly payments the home owner makes. This is a splendid thing because it enables building societies to insure their loans. This enables building societies to make an advance of up to 95 per cent ofthe value of a home. Of course, this means that it is within the ability of the average worker to aspire to, and indeed, to acquire, his own home. The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation is designed in such a way that it does not make a profit. The Corporation must create proper reserves but it does not seek a profit and to the average working man in Australia and the average person on medium and low incomes this is a magnificent encouragement to own his own home because he can obtain finance on a very low deposit. This works hand in hand with the building society movement in Australia, particularly the permanent building society movement. 
As honourable members know, there are 2 types of building societies. Firstly, there arc the terminating societies which are very good and which obtain money from insurance companies and banks. The loans given by these societies terminate over a given number of years. Terminating societies are quite good and their interest rate is perhaps a little lower. But the permanent building society is a vehicle for encouraging people to invest their savings. Some people invest their savings in the anticipation that they will want to borrow from the building society when they want to purchase their own home. Others do it purely as an investment and others because of some national spirit. These building societies are controlled by people who are dedicated to assisting people. Although the directors of the societies perhaps receive a few pence in fees the societies are non-profit making organisations. They are run in a co-operative manner and people today are given  6i  per cent interest on their money. This is a very good rate of interest and the money that is invested can be withdrawn at any time. As I have said before in this House, I know of no organisation better suited for saving than the permanent building societies. Investment in permanent building societies enables funds to be available for people, and particularly those on low incomes, who can borrow up to 95 per cent of the cost of their home at a reasonable rate of interest. The interest rate was increased recently but I hope and I believe that this rate will shortly be decreased. Therefore, I say that this Government has done a very good job in the field of housing. This is an interesting field and I could speak at great length on it. However, I. am sorry to see that my time has almost expired. I sincerely hope that when we come to consider the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement we will look at housing in a proper light and that we will see that the Agreement provides homes for people on low incomes. 
Will the Minister for External Affairs state in plain terms, so that the average citizen can understand the implication, the effect of Labor Party policy, as announced by the Leader of the Opposition, of an immediate withdrawal of our troops from Vietnam? In particular, what would the effect be on our friendly relationship with other countries in South East Asia and our allies engaged in the conflict? 
Does the AttorneyGeneral agree that it is most desirable for the stability of the economy to have a well regulated and impartially conducted stock and share market? Is he aware that a great deal of the manipulation and instability of the market springs from the fact that registered sharebrokers and members of the stock exchanges trade extensively in their own names and through nominees as well as acting as agents for other principals? What action can this Government take to prevent or restrain this kind of undesirable activity? 
It is most unusual for an honourable member to introduce into this House a matter of public importance and then at the conclusion of his speech to move the suspension of Standing Orders in order to discuss the same matter but to bring the issue to a vote. This would completely interfere with and disturb the routine of the House. To me this is quite wrong. I am not going te discuss the merits or demerits of the subject matter. The Opposition, from the manner in which it has introduced the motion, apparently desires to take the business of government out of the hands of the Government. This is the idea. It is calculated to be a shrewd move to put certain honourable members on the spot, so to speak. This is what was expressed by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  when be proposed the motion. It is simply deplorable that this House should be used in this political fashion and that the business of the Government should be interferred with. 
In fact,  Sir, it  reflects largely upon those who have introduced for discussion the matter of public importance. It would be quite wrong in principle for any supporter of the Government to vote for this motion. No matter what his feelings may be about the subject matter he could not vote for this proposition because it has been presented in such a surreptitious fashion. 
It is true to say that, in Australia today, the image of the politician or of the Parliament has declined to a very low level. I think that this is unfortunate for the institution of Parliament, because Parliament is an institution that makes laws in this country, creates the conditions in which people can benefit by their labours, and is an institution that is essential for the well being of ali of the people in this country. Yet, this institution has been used today, as it is very frequently used by the Opposition, for nothing other than political purposes. 
It is regrettable that the unfortunate people in Australia who suffer need should be used as the vehicle for political propaganda and for bringing forward a discussion in the terms that we have had today only for the purpose of trying to gain a political advantage in the community. That is the only purpose of this discussion. I cannot understand why the great Australian Labor Party would condescend to do this type of thing instead of approaching this serious matter on another basis. However, we find that all over the country members of the Australian Labor Party use the unfortunate position of people to stir up class distinction and hatred throughout the community. This is what goes on. We find the Australian Labor Party forming committees to prepare petitions and all sorts of things.  The  Australian Labor Party is doing this only for the purpose of the political benefit that can accrue to it because it has brought forward these matters for discussion. 
I put it to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who introduced this subject for debate today: Did he ever approach the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  with the figures he has quoted today and in the calm of this office discuss the pros and cons of the urgent need for some help to be given to some of the people in Australia at the present time? Did he ever do that? Did the Leader of the Opposition, in the quiet of the Prime Minister's office, ever talk to him about a matter that he thought was of such great importance to the people of Australia? Some people are suffering. The Leader of the Opposition has a view on this position. But did the Leader of the Opposition ever calmly talk about this position to the Prime Minister? The answer is no. He has to raise it in this forum and make all sorts of statements and accusations in order to try to gain some political advantage. This I deplore because the subject matter is too important to these people for it to be spoken of in that way. But when this matter is brought to one's notice, one must make remarks and pay attention to what has been done. 
What is the record of the Australian Labor Party in the field of social services? 
The record will show quite plainly that, when the Labor Party was in power, it did very little to advance social service benefits for the people in need in Australia. As the Minister for Social Services pointed out earlier - I do not wish to dwell upon this fact - in the last year in which the Labor Party held power in Australia, that is, in the days of the Chifley Government before the present Government took office, prices were rising tremendously. If we take 100 as the base figure representing prices, the index figure for prices rose from 38 in 1947 to 46.9 in 1949. That represents a pretty big increase. That was the position in 1949. Yet,  Mr Chifley,  the Labor Prime Minister of Australia refused to grant any increase in pension rates to Australians receiving social service benefits. Not only did he do that but also did he fail, as did the Australian Labor Party fail miserably, to settle the arguments with doctors in order to obtain any kind of medical service for the pensioners of Australia. He failed to do these things. Honourable members opposite cannot say that the Labor Party has a good record when attention is directed to what it did when it had the opportunity of helping the people who were in the unfortunate position of being pensioners. Yet, on the question of welfare state activities I believe that the record of this Government is the best in the history of Australia. 
In the first Budget introduced by this Government when it came to power in 1950 the pension was raised by 75c. In addition to the fringe benefits offered, a continuous raising of the pension has taken place year by year throughout the Government's whole term of office. The payment of pensions has reached a prodigious level. If honourable members bear in mind that out of a population of 12* million people Australia has 1,020,669 aged, invalid and widow pensioners, they will realise that this represents a fairly large percentage of the country's population. The welfare state now costs this country $1,40Om dollars a year. Of course, this money has to be raised out of the pockets of the taxpayers of Australia. Mostly, the people on pensions are not unaware of this and are very grateful for what has been done. I know that some people suffer, but by and large this is not so. Let us not forget that this Government, which is elected by the people, is charged with the responsibility of maintaining real value in the economy. I believe that our present Prime Minister is a man who is dedicated to the welfare of the Australian people, perhaps more than any other Prime Minister Australia has had. 
I want to cite briefly some figures to show honourable members what has been done since this Government assumed power. If we use 1949 as the base year, we find that the real value of the pension has risen from an index figure of 10.33 in J.949 to its present level of 15.50. This is a tremendous achievement. Not only have pensions been increased, but fringe benefits have helped pensioners more than anything else. People need the money, the food and so forth. These things are necessary. However, it is the fringe benefits that have helped them more than anything else, and this Government has been responsible for the introduction of a whole list of fringe benefits that were never thought of by previous governments. 
Notwithstanding the criticism that has been directed at Australian doctors recently, I pay tribute to our doctors for the work that they have done under the pensioner medical service scheme which has brought benefit to the old people in Australia who are in receipt of social service payments. We must remember that, for a sum of approximately $2.35, a doctor will get in his car, drive a distance of, say, 5 miles to a pensioner's home and give medical attention to that pensioner. Doctors carrying out these duties are not being paid the full cost that would be involved in providing such a service. They make their contribution to this scheme. This is a benefit that this Government has organised. 
There is a whole list, but my time has just about expired. I wish I had time to give details of the homes for the aged service, and this sort of thing. It is these services that the people want. I know that a need exists for the situations of some people to be dealt with. I know that the Government is giving consideration to the requirements of such people because of the change in the economy. However, this Government is charged with the responsibility of preserving the stability of our economy. The people who are in receipt of pensions need never fear that they will get anything but a fair deal from this Government. It is only a matter of time, of calculating, and of finding the correct way to do it. When the Budget for 1971-72 is introduced, the matter will be fully dealt with and all considerations will be taken into account. 
I have listened now to three of the leading speakers on behalf of the Opposition. My understanding of a censure debate where a government is to be censured is that one should hear something that the Government had done which was very wrong and not in the interests of the people. I have not heard any one of the 3 speakers make a substantial statement of any kind that would indicate that this Government had let the people down or that anything had been done by this Government that was inimical to the interests of the people as a whole. All that the motion has been used for has been a political process. 1 know that in many instances this is why censure motions are moved. I listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and I expected to hear great things from him because I read that he had spent the whole weekend in Canberra preparing his speech. If what he gave us was the result of a whole weekend's contemplation and preparation it was a pretty poor show. 
It seemed to me from the tenor of his speech that what he wanted was an election so that he could lead a government in this country. He criticised and castigated the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  because the new Ministry had not been announced. The Prime Minister answered that effectively. This Government is not in confusion. No-one on this side of the House - and this is the Government side - has lost confidence in this Government. The Opposition will find when the vote is taken on the no confidence motion thai the Government parties on this side of the House are completely cohesive and united. The whole tenor of the speech of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  which he read to us - he has never made a speech of any kind that was not written - was that we were a Government that was being dictated to by the wealthy newspapers and by the wealthy people of Australia and that we were forgetting the poor people of Australia. This is not the policy or the objective of this Government, as its history will show. This Government is one that represents all classes of the community. There is no doubt that the honourable member for Fremantle was raising the old bogy of class distinction. He was trying to make the public believe that this Government took its actions and policies from the dictates of people outside. 
I am one of the founders of the Liberal Party in Australia. One of the tenets of our Party - the Labor Party might take a little notice of this - is that it will not accept money from any organisation that might seek to- exert a power of dictation in the activities of this Government. That is a vital principle of the Liberal Party of Australia and also of the Country Party. It will not accept money for political purposes from any organised group of people which might seek to dictate Government policy. The Labor Party cannot say that, ft is not free to say that because it is dictated to by the unions which supply the money that keeps it going. In other words, it is a sectional Party and not one that can represent itself as working in the interests of all classes of people in Australia. So in my opinion the honourable member for Fremantle was completely on the wrong track. 
We have just heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  Of course, he rolled out his old work horse speech dealing solely with the question of Vietnam. One would imagine he was giving his policy speech again on Vietnam. We have had this over and over again. We do not need this kind of a discussion during a debate of Ais nature. Whilst it may have been interesting for him to parade his ideas, they had no relevance to the present debate. As I see it, the purpose of a censure motion should be to draw the attention of the public to the conduct and policies of the Government which are inimical to the interests of the people of the nation. That is what a censure motion should be and if it was couched in these terms a justifiable argument might be put forward. But as I have said, nothing of this character has been presented. So the censure motion must have been brought forward for the purpose of trying to create some dissension in the ranks of the Government. 
Yes, as the honourable member for Evans has said, Whitlam's scrap book. The Opposition seeks to disturb the Government, but honourable members opposite will find that they cannot do it this way. We have our domestic differences as occur in every party, every organisation and every good home. There is no need to have a censure motion because we shift the furniture a little in our home. That has nothing to do with the problem. If the Opposition thinks that it can create dissension within the Government it just cannot be done this way because, as 1 have said, it is a unified Government. On the other hand the Opposition may think that a debate of this kind may gain it some political advantage. No doubt there are some thousands of people listening to the debate today and the Opposition may think that it will gain some political advantage from it. If that is so we too welcome the opportunity of telling the people some of the things (hat this Government has done to bring this country to the stage of development and prosperity that it has reached at present. This Government was elected by the people because of the policies and principles for which it stands. This is an important point. It is on these policies and objectives that this Government has carried this country forward over the last 21 years to the greatest degree of development and prosperity in its history. 
What 1 want to point out - the Opposition seemed to miss this - is that although we have had some differences and we have a new Prime Minister, there is no change in the policies and principles of this Government. This is not a matter of personalities but of principles and policies. A government is an organiation that carries into effect certain policies and has certain objectives and principles. These are the things that count. A change of Prime Minister or some argument about the domestic affairs of the Party does not mean a change in the policies or principles for which the Government stands. Personalities may differ but the policies of the Government are under a unified head and we will proceed in that way. I challenge the Opposition to find any defection on thus side of the House. There is not a member of the Government parties who would agree with the Opposition in relation to this motion because both the Liberal Party and the Country Party are in complete conformity. This is a completely united Government. Where then is the room for talking about censure motions? 
What would the position be if we had an alternative government in Australia of the character of the Labor Party? We know that there is a fundamental difference between the policies and directions of the Government and the Opposition although sometimes the public does not seem to understand this. We stand for the God given right of the individual. We do not believe in the kind of policies that Labor stands for. The Labor Party is a Socialist party which stands for the superiority of the Slate. That is the difference. We stand for the right of the individual, the preservation of the dignity of the individual and the right of an individual to get the benefit of his own initiative and to be encouraged to use this initiative. So as far as principles are concerned we and the Labor Party are poles apart. But within the ranks of the Labor Party are individual groups which are poles apart. There is the left wing and the right wing and for years Australians have been aware that the Labor Party has been completely disunited in the various States and in this Parliament. No matter what the Labor Party tries to do it cannot mend this difference because it stands for 2 sections. The first is the left which goes to the extreme left and encourages the playing of hands with the Communists and so forth. On the other side - the right wing - are some decent fellows, some of them good friends of mine, who are entirely different. But how does one make a party out of them? How does one make a stable government out of them? This, of course, is what we are up against. How do we bring stability to a country like Australia when we have to contend with the conduct of a man like  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions who is trying to bring about conditions in this country that will destroy our development and destroy the possibility of people in this country being encouraged to spend their money to assist our development. 

 Mr Hawke is obviously an aspirant for the Prime Ministership and I think the Leader of the Opposition would be serving his own interests a little belter if he tried to clip the wings of  Mr Hawke  instead of coming here and moving censure motions. After all, the people of Australia know that if  Mr Hawke  is allowed to go his merry way, as the Labor Party is encouraging him to do, this will bring about tragedy in the industrial affairs of this country. This man is encouraged and allowed to go free by the Labor Party. The truth is that the Labor Party cannot bring to this country the necessary stability or total public confidence that would enable it to claim the responsibility of government. Indeed, it would destroy the confidence of all overseas countries in Australia that has been brought about by this Government. 
What are we doing in this country? We are trying to build a young nation into one of the great nations of the future. We have only 13 million people. We occupy the last continent on earth to be built in to a great nation. Today the importance of government is to lay the foundations for the building up of a great new nation that will be an example to all other democracies. By tradition we benefit from the past. We are living in geographical proximity to half the world's population, who are trying to sort out their way of life. We are laying the foundations for a great nation, so we need to have policies which will enable this country to develop and which will encourage initiative. When we look back over the history of this Government wc find that it has encouraged people to invest millions of dollars of risk capital in Australia. What has been the result? The result has been the discovery of oil and natural gas. the implementation of water conservation programmes and development that was unheard of in the past. These things have ali been possible because they have been encouraged by the Government. Yet honourable members opposite criticise what we have done. 
We have elected a new Prime Minister. I am not saying anything derogatory about any other man in this place, but  1  venture to suggest that the Prime Minister we have elected is a man of outstanding capacity who is capable of guiding the economic affairs of this country. He is a man who has learned politics in the nard field of politics and who has the experience to handle the Government of this time. He is imbued with a dedication to the development of Australia and a man who can be trusted to carry the affairs of this country to the final goal of developing a great nation. I am proud to serve under a man of this capacity, and I think that the people of Australia are equally proud. I think the people of Australia are glad to have the opportunity to follow the policies and objectives of the Liberal and Country Parties because only in this way can  we  establish the great nation to which we are entitled. Nations are not great because of their climates; people make great nations. If the freedom and right of the individual are preserved under our political system we will become a great nation. For that reason I am prepared to serve under this Prime Minister who has been criticised. I am proud to serve in the Liberal Party of Australia, which is the greatest political party ever established in this country for the benefit of a young nation of this kind. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service: Is the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  going right outside his official position by making a threat to certain commercial organisations that he will call their employees out on strike or declare the organisations black if they do not supply Bourke's in Melbourne with certain goods at prices which he dictates? Is  Mr Hawke  authorised to take this action under the Trade Practices Act, or is it just plain public blackmail? 
Has the Prime Minister seen an article in today's issue of the 'Australian Financial Review' which speculates that the legislation that the Government proposes to introduce to control the practice of resale price maintenance will provide an opportunity for particular instances of the practice to be justified, but on the basis that the onus of proving such justification will be placed squarely at the feet of industry? In view of the considerable public interest in the proposed legislation, will the Prime Minister indicate to the House the nature of the provisions, if any, the Government has in mind with respect to permitting the practice to continue where it is justifiable? 
I have listened to the speeches from both sides of the chamber. We have heard 4 speakers from the Australian Labor Party, led by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  It is quite clear to anyone who has been listening to the debate that the whole purpose behind the Labor Party's proposal is to indicate that Labor favours a system under which a central government has complete power over the whole of Australia. Obviously this is what the Labor Party wants, because the Leader of the Opposition made the point that if Labor were elected to power it would negotiate a new financial agreement directly with local government, that is, from central government to local government. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  also referred to the isolation of local government from State government so that local government bodies could deal directly with the central government. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  also in his speech indicated that he favoured the idea of central financial control. The whole of the speech of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  dealt with the problem surrounding local government financing. 
The matter of public importance refers to the 'lack of machinery for government consultation'. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  referred to a long list of organisations which are presently conferring with the States on certain matters. So we can only conclude - of course it is well known - that Labor favours a centralist system of government and that it does not favour a federal system under which the States have their rights. Of course, centralism means the vesting of all power in the central government and the reduction of the State governments to puppets of the central power. This, in the end, is Labor's policy of Socialism. Indeed, it is socialism under a kind of dictatorship. I cannot see the people of Australia having anything to do with this kind of system. 
This Government stands for the Federal system which is in fact a decentralisation of nationhood. This means a spread of power. Power is not centralised in one body but is spread throughout the Federal system on a national basis. This again calls for co-operation, co-ordination of activity between the State governments and the Federal Government, and a tolerance and an understanding of the problems of each. We had plenty of evidence only yesterday - I presume in this chamber - of an understanding by this Government of the difficulties from which the States are suffering. I give great credit to our new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for taking action to relieve the States of the financial pressure with which they have been involved so deeply recently. 
We must remember that under our Constitution the States have sovereign rights and are responsible for certain functions. 
We cannot take from them the direct constitutional responsibility for local government, notwithstanding what the honourable member for Dawson may say. It would be quite improper for this Government or for any government in the Commonwealth to attempt a direct financial agreement with local government. I know the problems of local government. I have served in it for 20 or 30 years. I know what it is. It is an instrument of the State. Local government cannot be isolated from the State. Our States are responsible for promoting development within Australia. Some of the important matters which the States administer include housing, decentralisation, urban development, education, health, social welfare and transport. 
I emphasise that the States deal with people. The Commonwealth may deal with policies and principles, but the States deal with people. They deal with human relationships on a much more domestic basis than a central government possibly could do. This is the Federal system. It is a system of co-operation. The Commonwealth has an overriding responsibility. I am glad to see that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is present because very often this responsibility is forgotten. The overall stability of the economy is a direct responsibility and function of the Commonwealth, laying a base for development to be carried out by the States. This is a system of cooperation. We need to develop the closest possible collaboration with the States if we are to get the best results and are to use effectively the capacity of the Commonwealth in proper orders of priority. The Commonwealth is responsible for the important functions of defence and immigration. 
Great need undoubtedly exists for closer understanding between the States and the Commonwealth. This problem is not easy to solve as, I think, the Treasurer properly pointed out. The Commonwealth must understand in more detail than perhaps it does now the problems of the States. We must keep working towards this understanding of the problems of the States. We are moving towards it. The States always must be conscious of the overall economy of the nation and must act accordingly. After all, if we consider this issue in the broad, we must ask: What are we doing? We are developing a nation. We are developing it under a system in which our 
States have certain constitutional powers and rights. We must make this system work. We must live with it. It is not something with which people play. This is the meaning of the Commonwealth Constitution. The States agreed to the establishment of the Commonwealth Parliament. The Commonwealth and the States must be clear in their minds that we are one nation, one people. This is the important thing for both sides to think about. To bring about proper co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States will be a tremendous job. This is the most important objective towards which the States or the Federal Government can work. 
I do not think that the Australian Labor Party can handle this problem. I say that because I am conscious of the fact - this thought occurred to me while I was speaking - that the Australian Labor Party has its own problems as between its Federal and State bodies. The Labor Party is trying to create a central control in its various branches and is not having much success. The States are kicking over the traces in this respect and they do not seem to be able to be satisfied. It seems to be difficult to bring about an harmonious relationship between the central Federal authority of the Labor Party and the State authorities of the Party. So, who are members of the Labor Party to talk on this subject! 
This problem is a big one. It is one which must occupy the constant attention of the national Government and the State governments. I regard the events at yesterday's meeting between the Premiers and the Prime Minister as the commencement of a new era in the relations between the Commonwealth and the States. This new era in Commonwealth and State relations is to the eternal credit of our new Prime Minister and our new Treasurer whom I congratulate. The achievement of improved Commonwealth and State relations is the only way in which we can develop this great nation and the only way that we can bring about the efficient application of our capacity to develop into one of the great nations of the future. 
Has the Prime Minister heard of the intention of a prominent journalist and of others to visit mainland China in connection with certain sporting activities and of a member of the Opposition of this House to pay a visit to inquire into trade negotiations by this Government? Can the Prime Minister inform the House of the attitude of the Government to the movements of citizens for these purposes? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that the public at large and many good union members are sick to death of strikes in defiance of the arbitration system and that this irresponsible conduct appears to be encouraged and condoned by leaders of the trade union movement and the Australian Labor Party, at both the State and the Federal level? Is the Minister aware that the people look to this Government for strong action to restrain those responsible for this state of affairs? Has the Minister considered the provision that a compulsory secret ballot, properly and independently controlled, be held before any strike takes place? 
 We are now in the second day of the debate on the Budget which was delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I congratulate him upon his maiden effort. I hope that he will have the opportunity of producing many more budgets in the future and I think he will. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  stated his Party's case in relation to the Budget last night. I listened very attentively to what he said, but I heard very little of a constructive nature.  His  whole speech was a destructive exercise, together with the lauding of  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. One of the things which the Leader of the Opposition said and which was calculated to be quite damaging was that 100,000 people might be unemployed by the end of the year as a result of this Budget. Of course, this was an effort to try to frighten the people and to gain kudos for the Opposition. 
No such possibility could occur, because of the way in which the Budget is framed. The Government has already given an undertaking not to allow unemployment of such a magnitude to occur in this country. The statements made by the Leader of the Opposition were destructive ones. The Budget, which is presented each year, is generally speaking a stocktaking. We find out how much money we have spent and then we assess what money we need in the future for our economic growth and our social development. The Government tries in a budget always to guide and guard the people's activities for the coming year. With this in mind, it must assess taxation with which to pay for the things it proposes to do. Sometimes the word gets abroad that the Government has a lot of money. Of course, it has only the money which it takes out of the pockets of the people, and there are limitations on that. For this reason, no budget can be a popular one. It is always a case of either too much on the one hand or too little on the other hand, but this criticism is natural. The duty of a government is to be fair to all people, without discrimination. No Budget should discriminate between sections of the people. At all times the Government must preserve the economic stability of the country because in that way only can it benefit the people. 
We must give incentives to production and development and we must protect our social security, educate our children and guard our national security and welfare. Within our capacity, I believe that this is precisely what this Budget does. It is a good Budget. I am not happy about certain factors of it or certain details of it, and I will mention some of these later, but I must concede that it is an honest Budget trying to achieve things for the betterment and the growth of Australia and the people living in Australia. I think that the Government has been honest in its approach to this Budget which deals with some of the most urgent problems as the Government sees them - and there are many now. I am sure that the Government is fully aware of what one might call certain deficiencies in the Budget. Every Budget will have deficiencies. However the Government realises that all problems cannot be cured in a Budget. 
As I have said, the Budget structure leaves room to enable adjustments of matters that may arise in the future. What are Australia's problems? Without doubt the outstanding problem is the danger of inflation to our economy. This is poohpoohed by the Leader of the Opposition. He rides lightly over this, but this is Australia's outstanding problem, no matter what the Opposition thinks about it. True, many people do not understand the cause of inflation and do not realise the dread result of uncontrolled inflation. Fundamentally, of course, an excess of money in the hands of the people without a compensating increase in the production of goods and services creates an inflationary condition. The Leader of the Opposition screams out that the Government is criticising increasing wages and salaries in the hope of stopping such increases. Nevertheless it is true and cannot be denied, as the people know, that the vast increase in wages and salaries in recent years has been one of the major factors in the inflationary trend in Australia. I am speaking not only of the trade unions but of the whole pattern of wages and salaries, including Government employees in the Public Service. This inflationary condition has been brought about by varying factors. The awards granted under our arbitration system have been a principal factor. However these have been influenced largely by certain industrial agreements that have been entered into because of a condition of over-full employment in secondary industry. In order to carry on, some industries have entered into agreements which have contained excessive provisions. Agreements for increases have been presented to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and no awards have been made accordingly. Undoubtedly this situation has been operating for some time and unfortunately with over-full employment this has created a falling off in efficiency of production. In turn this has caused costs to rise and consequently prices to be increased. So we have inflation. 
The public and the workers themselves complain about the dog chasing its tail in the quest for further increases in wages and salaries. Something must be done about this because it cannot go on forever. The trade union movement led, I say deliberately, by the arch enemy of Australia, Bob Hawke, is taking advantage of the position and is using the strike weapon to force wages up higher and at the same time to reduce production. All of this is fanning the flames of inflation. I believe it is all a deliberate plot to destroy private enterprise in Australia. If the people follow this line, that is precisely what will happen. The trade union movement is going far beyond its charter, which is to improve the conditions of labour in unions. It is calling for strikes against the law in a political sense - against laws made by a properly constituted government - and is entering into business on its own account in various fi elds. I have not the time to detail them. The trade union movement is trying to organise control of banking, credit, housing and all these things. The object, of course, is to create a socialist society under a dictatorship. Ultimately this ends in communism. 
Since this Bob Hawke became  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in 1969 - appointed to the position by the left wing element - trade unions have organised political strikes. I shall give some examples. In February 1970 there was the Moratorium strike. What has that to do with the trade union movement? In August 1970 there was a Budget strike over pensions. In February 1971 there was a social services strike. In July 1971 there was the union ban on the South African rugby tour. Again in July 1971 there was a strike for a $5 a week increase in pensions. It is evident from these strikes that the trade union movement has entrenched itself firmly in the political arena and has gone beyond its charter. I draw attention to some statements made by trade union leaders because I think these should be quoted in the House.  Mr Hawke,  the  President  himself, in June 1971, as reported in the Sydney Morning Herald' said: 
It is like a law of physics. It is inevitable. If there is a vacuum it will be filled. 
That is his approach. According to the Australian' of 12th April 1971 he said: 
I can see no limit to the opportunities of the labour movement ... to protect and advance the interests of the ordinary people. 

 Mr Egerton, the  President  of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council and  President  of the Queensland Australian Labor Party is reported as having said: 
The trade union movement must insist on its right to be more than just an industrial body looking after the industrial demands of its members. Unions must make it clear that they have a right to interfere in the political movement of the nation. 
It is now perfectly clear that the trade union movement has entered into the field of politics.  Mr Bull  of the Waterside Workers Federation has said: 
The Government obviously can't run the country properly. So the trade unions must move in. 
That is perfectly clear. What 1 am trying to say is that the trade union movement has gone far beyond its charter and is now entering the political arena. What is the Labor Party doing about this? lt is encouraging and condoning the leaders of the left wing unions every time there is a demand for higher wages or a threat to strike. The Leader of the Opposition obviously is terrorised by the political power of  Mr Hawke  and the unions. I saw him on television and he was completely overwhelmed. He looked like a scared schoolboy. This is fairly evident and he feels that he must eulogise  Mr Hawke  in this House. 
Labor's only answer to inflation is government ownership and control and price control. Honourable members hear this claim made continually from the other side of the House. We hear the regular catchery that these things will cure the problem of inflation and rising prices, but they never will. They never will improve our standard of living or cure an inflationary trend. They are a deterrent to production. Increased production is what is needed in both goods and services. This is the only way to increase our standard of living and deal with inflation. 
There are other problems besides those  1  have mentioned. The problem of our rural industries is of very great concern to us. New research must be conducted in this field and reconstruction of these industries must be carried out. We cannot continue forever subsidising uneconomic industries. I am a country man. I believe that we cannot let our country brothers down. We have to help them to reconstruct in the country and to see that they get a fair go. T am all for this. This Budget does a good deal to alleviate their position. I know that some of the increased charges imposed in the Budget arc quite distasteful. I mention such increases as those imposed on postal charges, television licence fees, chemists' prescription charges and the company tax. But  1  am sure that if these sacrifices are made - after all, life is full of sacrifices - they will help us overcome the difficult period we are now experiencing. People will be contributing to help overcome the tragedies that are occurring in the community, such as in our rural industries. 
Some of the benefits that flow from the Budget are very good. I think they deserve mention. Very big increases - the biggest in our history - have been made in social service and repatriation payments. These should be emphasised. They are worthwhile increases. I congratulate the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  on the increased repatriation benefits. One outstanding feature is the attention that has been paid to child endowment, which has not been increased for years. This Government has seen fit to do something about it. lt has always given encouragement to the families. This is a direct opposite to the policy of the Labor Party. It is very interesting to look at some of the things that have been adopted as policy by the Australian Labor Party at its Federal Conference in Launceston. They include such proposals as: 
A nation-wide network of clinics to provide free advice by experts on family planning, including contraception to anyone who so requests. Contraceptives to be supplied on the free pharmaceutical list 
This is Labor Party policy. It will legalise the advertising of contraceptives. The Labor Party conference even went so far as to approve abortion on request. These are proposals of the once great Labor Party on family planning and family life. It is really a tragedy to read such proposals being adopted at this conference. The Labor Party says that a big problem in Australia is the attitude of the people that a woman will find ultimate satisfaction in housekeeping and child rearing. The Labor Party says that housekeeping does not fill in the time so they have to have another child to keep reasonably busy. It states that the national attitude must be changed so that women are encouraged to educate and retrain themselves for occupations outside the home. The Labor Party states that it is important to stress the selfishness of having another baby. 
These are Labor Party policies. The report of the conference continues: 
Other problems to be overcome are the manufacturers of consumer goods and others who, through their advertisements, build up the myth of the perfect woman, having got her man and become a glamourous mum with  4  healthy kids. 
Is this something to be discouraged? God help the Australian Labor Party if this is its attitude. 
I said earlier that I was disappointed with some of the matters in the Budget. I am very disappointed that no increase whatever was made in the per capita grants to independent schools. I think this is a matter of tremendous importance. Perhaps we have not looked at this subject enough. I know that the Government has done something about it. I know that we have given certain additional finance to the States from which they will provide assistance to independent schools. New South Wales has already started to do this, and I hope that the other States will follow suit. 
I was also very pleased to see the helpful increase in the concessional deduction in education expenses for income tax purposes. This will be helpful to many families. But I think that the Government must realise that the cost of education as far as the Commonwealth is concerned will be much greater than the allocation for independent schools in the Budget if many of them close their doors in the coming year. This is on the cards, because as I see it the money that is available to many of the independent schools will not be sufficient to keep them going without further assistance. This may be something with which the Government will have to deal when the trouble arises. I am disappointed that the position has been dealt with in this way. I would have liked to see the matter dealt with differently. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, one cannot always obtain everything one wants in a budget. These are difficult times. The Goverment is facing up to difficult conditions with changes in our international trade that will affect the country very greatly. More than at any other time, the country now needs stable government. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that this country is one of the most favoured nations for overseas investment. To maintain the confidence of investors both local and from overseas is it essential to have a stable economy backed by a government whose political integrity indicates security  for funds Invested? In view of certain criticisms and doubts recently published and the confusion caused by the recent adjustments of international currencies will the Treasurer keep the people and this House fully informed at frequent intervals of the Government's attitude to the problems as they arise? 
lt was really rather pitiful to hear the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  read his little prepared speech following on the information given by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  but we have established here this afternoon one thing that I think is important to Australia, and certainly is important to this House. We have now a clear picture of what Labor Party policy is in relation to home ownership, housing and the development of land. The idea of the Labor Party is stated in the proposal for the discussion of this matter as one of public importance. I want to apply myself particularly to that because it is what members of the Opposition stand on. They all rose to support the proposal - even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - so it is Labor Party policy. It reads: 
The need tq create joint Commonwealth-State planning and development commissions in each State to acquire substantial tracts of land in urban areas, particularly on their fringe - 
I suppose they would take the lot if they could- to hold it in public ownership and to develop it on a leasehold basis. 
That is the idea of Labor members. What they want to do is set up more commissions in Australia - as if we have nol enough commissions. Labor wants to cure every problem by setting up a commission or an inquiry - anything that costs money. Have members of the Opposition any idea of how much these separate independent commissions in each State will cost to administer? Do they understand this at all? We already have a housing commission in every State but they want another commission. I have never heard anything so absurd and so ridiculous. 
The great pity about all this is that the honourable member for Reid - bless his soul, you know he is a very conscientious man - beieves what- he is saying, but he does not understand anything about it. That is the trouble; he just does not understand what it is all about. He believes he is right; he believes this is a cure for the problem, but this is the most absurd proposal I have ever heard presented to this House. Honourable members opposite do not seem to have any concept of the problem. I know that prices of land have gone up all over Australia and that they have gone up more in Sydney than in any other capital city. But I have not heard the honourable member for Reid offer any reason for this situation. I will tell the honourable member a few things about this. 
Honourable members opposite know that the Labor Party was continuously in power in New South Wales for  23  to  25  years. That Party set up the Cumberland County Council in New South Wales. It also established around Sydney a reservation ring called the green belt. This was supposed to be really good planning. Where is the green belt today? Does anybody know? When the Labor Party was in power in that State - and one cannot unscramble the eggs too quickly - it deprived the people of Sydney of the opportunity to develop and expand Sydney through the unavailability of land. When a few developers, the New South Wales Housing Commission, the War Service Homes Division and other bodies sought to build houses there was not a block of land left for the poor little citizen. There was not one block left. Those who had blocks could ask for any price they liked. 
The reason for high land prices in Sydney can be traced back to State Government interference in the first place and to the fact that there was insufficient land to meet demands. This is a very simple matter to cure. It could be cured by private enterprise without any government interference. Does the Opposition realise what it would cost to resume the land its members have referred to in every capital city of Australia? Does the Opposition know what it costs to develop land today? Do Opposition members know the difference between the cost of land a few years ago to the average person and the cost of land today? A few years ago councils and local government authorities got into this planning mood. In developing land they did not require the construction of roads in the way they are required today. They did not require kerbing and guttering, the extension of water supplies, the availability of sewerage or the provision of gas or electricity. The costs for all these things now have to be borne by the developer who subdivides the land. Therefore there has been a complete change in the cost of land per block compared with a few years ago. 
Although I could speak for a long time in relation to this matter my time is limited in this debate. Honourable members on the other side have asked: As the Government has imposed this leasehold system and has acquired all the land in Canberra why is it unable to do likewise in the other capital cities? Could anyone imagine a more idiotic suggestion? Originally the Canberra district was a completely barren area with no development whatsoever. The surrounding districts consisted of grazing land. The Government decided to set up the capital city of Australia on this land. This is where the taxpayers' money would be spent to the extent of thousands of millions of dollars in the development of this city. The Government set about in this primitive area to develop Australia's capital. The Government has to own the land in this area. It has to have a leasehold system so as to acquire the increment on the capital value of the land. This is the only way it can be done. This system could not be applied to the Sydney metropolitan area where it has taken over 2 centuries to develop the city and suburbs. Sydney has been developed by way of investment savings on the part of individuals and they are the people who own the land. 
Honourable members on the other side have said that the Government cannot impose a leasehold system on some land owned by the Government and not apply it to other capital cities. The Opposition's scheme will not work unless the people of Australia are prepared to turn this nation into a Socialist state, whereby the government of the day would own the lot and would acquire every asset held by every person. It would then be a matter of ladling out what the government thought the people should have, as is done in Russia. If the Opposition's scheme is adopted we will have a Socialist state. Here we have today a complete indictment of the Labor Party that it is in favour of socialising and nationalising the ownership of land in Australia. It is almost unbelievable that the Opposition would seriously put forward this proposal. We all know that land prices have gone up, particularly in Sydney, because, as I mentioned before, of so much government interference in the long time that the Labor Party was in power in New South Wales. There has not been the same percentage increase - the honourable member for Reid has already indicated this from his own figures - in the price of land in Melbourne or in any other capital city in Australia because there has not been so much interference in Victoria and other States. 
Land prices in Perth increased because of other conditions but recently the price of land in Perth fell and it is still falling. People do not understand the reason for the high cost of land. The whole question of the cost of land is its availability. Do not let anyone forget that no-one can own a block of land for a period of 10 years or more, having paid the rates and taxes on it, without the cost to the owner doubling because you have to add at least 10 per cent per annum to the cost of the land for rates and taxes and unearned interest on the capital invested. People do not seem to understand this. 
People who have land on their hands have to get rid of it to get their money back. The price of land is determined by the availability of land. We can never cure the problem of rising land prices simply by expending government money to acquire all land. This method would not relieve the position in the way that members of the Opposition have indicated in this debate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that several hundred people are being kept alive by receiving treatment on modern kidney machines at some of our major hospitals? Is he aware also that most of these people could live normal lives if a kidney transplant was available to them? What publicity is being given to encourage would be donors to make it known that they are willing, in the event of their untimely death, to donate their kidneys, as a matter of urgency, to save the life of another person? Has any thought been given to including or has any suggestion been made to State transport authorities to include a voluntary form of consent for this purpose on all drivers' certificates throughout Australia? 
I think the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  must have had an anaesthetic before he came into the chamber tonight because to me he seemed to be talking from memory. The honourable member's speech was interesting and I think that we would all agree with a lot of what he said. He simply said the obvious. He did not, of course, tell us where we would get the money to do the things he suggested, but this is another matter. I do not think that this Bill now before us necessitates very extensive debate at this time, but 1 want to say a few more words about it. Nobody seems to have mentioned the Bill itself so far. I have listened to the arguments but nobody has talked about the Bill. The Bill is divided into 4 parts. This Bill provides for an increase in patient benefit for ordinary nursing homes from $2 a day to $3.50 a day. This means a rise from $14 per week to $24.50, and that is not an insignificant rise. That increase relates to the average patient. For the intensive care patient the increase will be from $5 a day to $6.50 a day. Previously this benefit was $35 per week but it has now been increased to $45.50. Again this is quite a substantial increase and therefore it must be of considerable advantage to those people who will receive this benefit. 
Another matter dealt with in this Bill is an increase of 50c to a total of $1 for pharmaceutical benefit prescription. This increase is quite understandable because the amount charged for a prescription has not risen since it was introduced in 1960. Other matters contained in this Bill only confirm certain regulations varying the medical benefits schedules. The Opposition has seen fit to move an amendment to the motion before the House. I will not detail that amendment, but the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in moving the amendment pressed his point of view. The honourable member has the idea that this Bill penalises the sick. I do not quite understand his view. The provisions of this Bill will make the position of the sick better than it is now. Perhaps these people should get more; but this Bill will improve their situation. I cannot see where a penalty comes into this. The honourable member for Oxley spoke about uplifting the standards of general practitioners. He announced that if the Australian Labor 
Party came to power we would have an Australian Hospitals Commission. It is the same old story. 
He spoke about universal participation in the health scheme and said that up to 15 per cent of the people do not take advantage of the voluntary health insurance scheme. This is because the people have decided for themselves whether to participate and surely they should be free to decide what they want to do. This is no criticism of the scheme. The honourable member for Oxley tried to advocate the Labor Party's idea that everything should be compulsory. The honourable member spoke about the failure to uphold the common fee system. We all know that there has never been - and the honourable member for Kingston knows this full well - complete uniformity on the common fee. I do not think anyone would have reasonably expected this uniformity but generally speaking doctors in Australia are coming to the situation where they are observing the common fee and by far the great majority of the doctors do observe the common fee at this point of time. The honourable member for Oxley believes that nursing homes should be part of a whole health scheme. Of course it would be great if this were so but if it were so it would, of course, result in quite considerable increases in insurance charges. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill and I do not see how it could oppose it. Opposition members have taken the opportunity in this debate to range over a host of matters concerning the health scheme. They have used this occasion for propaganda purposes to put forward their socialist ideas for a health scheme. They want to let the people know what their scheme is, and we all know what it is. If the Opposition were to come to power - and for the sake of Australia. I hope this never happens - it would introduce a centralist scheme of control over all health matters. This is the way they would work it. They want everything done in regard to health to be on a compulsory basis. There would be no voluntary scheme whatsoever. The Opposition wants, hospitals, nursing homes and all related health facilities to be Government-owned and Government-controlled, including the doctors themselves. As the honourable member for Kingston has just admitted- arid he is a doctor himself - Labor's idea is to nationalise the doctors so that all the members of the medical profession would become employees of the Government. I do not think that the people of Australia want that. I do not think this is the way to get the best medical service. If the honourable member were honest about it he would agree that that is not the way in which to get the best medical services. 
If I had sufficient time in this debate I would go over the whole history of health services in Australia but unfortunately time does not permit. Prior to this Government coming into power literally nothing was done in regard to health from the Commonwealth viewpoint. It is only in the last 22 years that this Government has been in power that all these major changes have been made. In the early days prior to this Government coming into power the major hospitals got together and created a voluntary fund in New South Wales called the Hospitals Contribution Fund. I was a member of the original board of that fund and I helped to form that organisation. I represented the Mater Misericordiae Hospital at North Sydney. These hospitals still run the funds. I was looking through some of my old papers only the other day and I saw that a special committee was set up by Labor Government which was in power in New South Wales at the time the voluntary fund was established. The then Minister for Health in New South Wales,  Mr Sheahan,  set up that committee to investigate the possibility of creating a compulsory hospital insurance fund. The report of that committee is very interesting. It recommended that it was impossible or impracticable to introduce a compulsory scheme. I point out that this was an investigation by the Labor Party itself. If anybody looks back into our history they will find that this was the position. 
The health scheme at present operating was established by  Sir Earle  Page when this Government came to power. This scheme had been a magnificent one in the interests of the people of Australia. Labor's health record is pitiful. It tried to establish a compulsory scheme but the doctors refused to co-operate. Honourable members will recall that Labor tried at that time to negotiate such a scheme but failed in its negotiations. So it passed an 
Act for the introduction of a health scheme of a compulsory nature, but that Act was challenged in the courts and found to be illegal. Labor ended up its term in office doing precisely nothing for the health of the people of Australia. 
But the present Government's record is, as I said before, really magnificant. In this regard one should think of not only the hospital and medical funds but also the pensioner medical service which was a magnificent conception of assistance to people in need of help. It is, of course, free to all pensioners in Australia. This Government originated the idea of and introduced free hospitalisation and the supply of pharmaceutical drugs to elderly people. The subsidised pharmaceutical benefits scheme has, even though the prescription charges has been increased to $1, saved the people of Australia millions of dollars and has been of great assistance to them. It is necessary to have some sort of deterrent in relation to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, otherwise people will place no value on the medicine which is provided to them and some of the expenditure which is sustained by the Commonwealth in this regard will be to' no good purpose at all. This Government established the homes for the aged scheme, which has subsidised the building of homes for tens of thousands of elderly people throughout Australia. I could speak for a long time about the research it has encouraged into cancer, heart disease and various other diseases. The subsidisation of nursing homes is quite a recent innovation. 
Care of the aged is without doubt one of the most complex and most difficult problems which have to be faced. Age brings not only illness and infirmity but also loneliness and mental problems. People usually experience more family problems in the latter part of their life than in the earlier part of their life. There are certain economic adjustments which have to be made, too, as people get beyond the stage at which they can earn an income. But these problems are not confined to people in the low income group. Elderly people in the middle income group also have problems. Even elderly people who are reasonably wealthy have problems. These problems can in many ways be relieved by assistance from us. But elderly people need guidance, advice and, in many ways, rehabilitation in certain times of their life. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said, the Bill is only an interim measure; R is not intended to be the final say on our health scheme. However, it is necessary to do something at this stage to relieve the nursing homes at a time when they are experiencing increased costs. The private nursing homes, the nursing homes run by churches, charitable institutions and the public hospitals, State or municipal, need some assistance. I agree that there is a need to check the standard of the service and care given to elderly people. One wonders whether something should be done about the establishment of clinics in association with the senior citizens movement for the provision of certain assistance to elderly people. Perhaps consideration could be given also to the extension of the scheme to the building of hostels, which is a matter of importance. I am very firmly of the opinion that it is necessary to go ahead at a very fast rate with increasing the domiciliary care that is provided to older people. I think that that is an important matter that must be considered very shortly. I have no doubt that the Government will be considering and making a decision on matters of this nature in the future. As the Prime Minister said, this legislation is only an interim measure. There is also the question of the provision of an annexe to major hospitals where one can get particular forms of assistance. This matter should be looked into in the building of major hospitals. 
Another matter is the provision of community aid. A magnificent community aid scheme has been established in Lane Cove, which is in my electorate.- Voluntary help is given under this scheme to assist the elderly people with their troubles. As I said earlier, it is not necessarily the elderly people in the poorer section of the community who need community aid. A great variety of problems afflict people in their old age. This is when they need assistance. I think this Government can be trusted - certainly Labor cannot, be trusted - to make a further extension to the assistance which is provided under the national health scheme. But in my opinion it should be a voluntary scheme and not a compulsory one. It should not be centralised in Canberra, as Labor wants it to be. Give the people a chance to decide what kind of health assistance they want. 

 Dr GUN (Kingston) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation.' 
Has the Minister for Education and Science seen 2 publications, one named 'Family Issue of Tharunka', the journal of the University of New South Wales Students Union, with a printed copy of an alleged letter of congratulations from Professor Myers, the Vice-Chancellor and Principal, and the other a booklet 'Sex' with the imprint U.N.S.W. July 1971'? Will the Minister agree that these publications contain the most vile, disgusting and degrading pornographic material one could imagine? Is the Minister aware that they were sold or distributed at the university to young students of both sexes? Is it a fact that the cost of production of these 2 publications amounted to $930 and was paid for by the funds from the Students Union, which is subsidised by this Government? Will the Minister discuss this matter with the State Ministers for Education to see that appropriate action is taken against those responsible and that the discipline of the universities is strengthened to prevent a repetition of such deplorable conduct? 
As usual, we have heard from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  a repetition of what he said on the last occasion on which he spoke on this subjejct, and a recital, which was read, by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  It is the same old story which we hear on every occasion when the question of housing arises. Of course, the difficulty is - and it is an unfortunate, almost pathetic difficulty- that the honourable member for Reid, who leads for the Opposition on housing matters, is a very decent fellow who would like to do the right thing, but he just does not understand the problem at all; he just does not have a clue as to what it is all about. He speaks about land costs but he does not attempt to put his finger on the fundamental cause of rising land costs, particularly in the State of New South Wales.  His  cure for the problem is to create another commission of some kind, and for the Government lo resume land all over the place and then to distribute the land. But this would not necessarily cure the problem at all. As a matter of fact it is further government interference with the rights of the individual and it would, in the end, create a condition that would cost the individual or the taxpayer more. 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  spoke of this Government doing nothing in relation to housing. Unfortunately because of the limited time available to me 1 cannot go deeply into housing problems but the record of this Government over the past 22 years has been outstanding. The Australian Labor Party was in power for many years but it did nothing whatever about the housing problem. Since it has been in power the Government has done, and is doing, much. Many new schemes have been introduced and, in some cases, legislation which was introduced by a Labor government has been amended. The Government is providing adequate and high-class housing throughout Australia for its servicemen. The present proposal will benefit the States considerably because money will be given to them without any strings attached to enable them to build houses and to manage them. Servicemen in all of the Services will be able to secure homes and will pay an economic rental or a rental based on a percentage of their salary, whichever is the less. Instead of what is being done at present I believe that we should ensure that we not only build through the housing commissions but also that we should try to buy property wherever it is available so that we can more adequately serve our servicemen by providing accommodation nearer to their places of employment. Considerable savings could be achieved if this were done because it is not easy to acquire land where it is wanted and I think the Government could do better in this respect. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who knows much about the war service homes scheme, referred to this magnificent scheme. 
I agree that in the present circumstances  $9,000  is too low and the loan should be raised above that level. However, to advert to government activity in the housing field, in the period from  1919  to  1949, 63,000  homes were built under the war service homes scheme but since this Government came to power in  1949,  up to June of last year it had built  261,217  homes. 
Yes, it is a tremendous record. I would suggest to the Minister that the Government might examine the need for better security for second mortgages on war service homes. Under the Act a serviceman virtually has no security and it is extremely difficult for a man, unless he has the full amount of the deposit, which can be considerable with a loan of  $9,000,  to be able to get a second mortgage. I think special arrangements should be made whereby an ex-serviceman can insure a second mortgage loan through the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. This would enable second mortgage money to be borrowed at a low rate of interest because of the guarantee that would be associated with such borrowing. 
The Government has introduced many important schemes. I instance the migrant flats scheme. The Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement is about to be renewed on a different basis. I have not sufficient time to discuss this matter but I hope that later we will be able to do so. I believe that I was instrumental in securing for building societies  30  per cent of the money allo cated to the States for housing purposes. Under the proposed new agreement this situation is supposed to be preserved but, as the money will not be by way of loans from the Commonwealth to the States and the amount that the States will require will be borrowed under their own loan programmes I do not know whether the building societies will secure the amount that they should get. I should like to see the  30  per cent they are presently receiving increased considerably. We should be aiming to build in Australia a home ownership community in which every man will have the opportunity of owning his own home. There is no better vehicle by which we can achieve this aim than the building society movement. Obviously under the new housing agreement there will be' different arrangements, some of which I would agree with, but I should like to know just what is proposed. 
The homes savings grant scheme, which was mentioned bp the honourable member for Robertson, is another scheme which was initiated by this Government. Young people up to the age of  36  years are encouraged, even before they marry, to start saving for their homes. However, I would suggest to the Minister that it is not proper that the Government should place a limitation of  $17,500  on homes which qualify for the grant. Whilst people aged  25  years or  30  years may be receiving a certain income when they marry they may well improve their economic position and if they can afford, at this point of time, to get a better class of home for their future life, why should they not be encouraged to do so? The Government is making a gift to young people to encourage them to save and if they save and meet the requirements why should they be restricted to purchasing a home costing no more than  $17,500?  With this limitation young people are driven into the wilderness so to speak, or are forced to buy home units instead of homes. I suggest, in passing, that this aspect should be considered by the Government. 
The Government has initiated other magnificent schemes, including a scheme to provide dwellings for the aged and a homes for the aged subsidy scheme. Many things "remain to be done. If the opportunity occurs later, I should like to discuss in detail land prices. One fundamental factor causes prices to rise and that is the unavailability of land. However the greater there is government interference in these matters the less land there is available. As a matter of fact in New South Wales great things were expected of the Labor Party when it established the green belt around the city of Sydney. Where is the green belt now? I should like that question answered. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is really fantastic that we should have speeches of the kind that we have heard this afternoon and tonight. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  a moment ago really put his finger on the very thing that I have talked about here on a number of occasions. He referred to 2,000 acres of land in his own area- 
He referred to 2,000 blocks of land in his own area which were not released to the public because the State Planning Authority had some argument with the local council, and so forth. This is precisely what has been happening over many years. The fundamental cause of the increase in the cost of land, particularly in the city of Sydney, has been that sufficient land has not been available for the people, and that situation has been brought about by government interference, by the State Planning Authority, by councils, and by State Government inhibitions in certain respects. This has brought about the position where big land holders plus the Housing Commission in the State of New South Wales, plus the War Service Homes Division, plus the big land developers, have taken up all the land that has been available and have left nothing for the average citizen. Consequently they have been able to ask whatever prices they liked. That is the position in regard to land. 
What is proposed by the Australian Labor Party will not cure this position. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  as I did when I spoke before, that the Labor Party in the State of New South Wales, dealing with the question of land in Sydney, had a planning authority to advise it, and it set up what it called a green belt around the whole of Sydney. This was to cure all our land problems. Where is the green belt today? Finally, the green belt had to be bitten into in various areas until it was gone. Today the green belt does not exist. So much for the planning. 
What is needed today is for land to be made available to people far and wide without the restraints and restrictions that governments put upon it. This is what we want. We do not want further commissions. We have the State Planning Authority which is a government commission. We have all these bodies. Do honourable members realise the amount of money that would be involved in the Government setting up a commission and resuming thousands of acres of land, building roads, providing sewerage and bringing in all the facilities that go with it and then holding the land for years and letting it out at subsidised interest rates? I would like to ask my friend, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who spoke this afternoon about interest rates: Does he realise that the interest rate has been rising not only in this country but in every country? This country does not control the current market rates of interest. The Australian Labor Party set up the first Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement in 1945. But it charged the long term bond rate for interest without any interest subsidy whatsoever. 
Never mind about me. When the Agreement expired in 1956 when this Government was in power it changed that system and it gave a rebate of 1 per cent on the long term bond rate to the States. That was in replacement of the amount of subsidy which the states were entitled to charge under certain income provisions for tenants. That scheme continues in certain respects,, because the Government still contributes to it. The interest rate continued to rise, but this 
Government still gave a subsidy of 1 per cent. So the conditions have altered. Increases in wages have continued. Do honourable members opposite realise what they are doing? Do they realise the standard of living and the standard of housing in Australia? Australia has the highest standard of housing of any country, without exception. If honourable members go to England or to the United States of America they will see what the position there is for low income earners today. In Philadelphia at the present time great schemes are being conducted with the terraced house type of construction for the lower income people. The same thing is going on in England. What is the position in Russia, for instance? What sort of accommodation do people receive in these other parts of the world? In Australia, a very nice 2 or 3-bedroom cottage is set up on its own block of land at a very moderate rent. What honourable members of the Labor Party are advocating is that this country should subsidise in its interest rate everybody who buys a block of land and everybody who buys a home. Have honourable members opposite estimated the cost of this to the taxpayer? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I am sorry that my referring to Russia worried the honourable member. A little while ago the honourable member for Chifley referred to the interest rate of 3) per cent for a war service home. The  3)  per cent- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Ord er I The honourable member for Mitchell will resume his seat 
 I want to show the insincerity of the Opposition in certain respects. The honourable member for Chifley referred to the charge of 3f per cent for war service homes. This is not a housing matter at all. It is a repatriation matter. Everybody knows that the subsidy on interest in relation to war service homes is granted because it is a repatriation matter. It is a deliberate subsidising of tha interest rate to ex-servicemen, and rightly so. 
No, I do not. I say 'Rightly so'. But that should not be equated with the general scheme of housing- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. 
My time has nearly expired because honourable members opposite have wasted it. Finally, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith referred to the queue of housing commission applicants. Of course people go to the housing commissions because everyone who wants a home at a cheap rent will go where he can obtain a home at a subsidised rent. The people who are subsidising the rent are the taxpayers of Australia. Do not forget that. All of the grandiose schemes we have heard here today - we will hear some more from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  - have to be paid for. No country in the world could ever finance such a scheme as that honourable members opposite are suggesting. Let us get down to realities, to what is reasonable in relation to these things, and see that the people in the greatest need are looked after. This is not being done by many of the States today. We must help the people in need. There are only  2  problems in Australia today- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is really fantastic  to hear the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  criticising this Government for its failure in relation to the production of power and fuel. The great strikes that have been made in recent history in Australia have been due entirely to the activities and the encouragement given by this Government. Everybody knows that in the course of its term of office this Government has built up tremendously the production of coal. There is no time tonight to go into detail, but there is no doubt whatever that, since this Government came to power, the production of coal in this country has been enormous. I had a lot to do with this for many years. Because of the initiative of the Government oil was discovered in Australia. I will go further than that and say that, had the Australian Labor Party been in power. I doubt whether we would have discovers  1  uranium which the honourable member  hai  talked about. AH these things were initialed by this Government. 
I would like to see some changes in the Department of National Development. My complaint is not of the work that the Department does, because it has done magnificent work in the field that the honourable member spoke about, in the Snowy 
Mountains scheme and in its contribution to the great water conservation schemes and other big schemes that are going on throughout the land. I do not want to mention them all but I refer to the Ord River scheme and the enormous development by the Bureau of Mineral Resources of minerals which have been discovered throughout Australia. These are all good, splendid things. But my complaint is that they are done in isolation. The honourable member for Cunningham is proposing another body to operate in isolation. My view is that the Department of National Development should be dealing with the whole of the national resources of this country. It should be the initiator and coordinator for the building of the nation. It should not be responsible for carrying that building into effect. We are one nation of almost 13 million people. Most of those people live in our capital cities and most live on the east coast of Australia. We have the 6 States and the Northern Territory. These are all vying with each other for the resources of this nation. 
The Department of National Development has done great work in laying down the base for a number of things, but this is not how I think it ought to be done. I think that our total capacity as a nation ought to be co-ordinated. We know that the States, which also are doing a good job, are the vehicles to carry out the development in this country. I am not for one moment proposing to superimpose the Commonwealth upon the activities of the States. They must be made to understand, however, that the nation comes first. We need in the nation orderly development so that everybody is aware of and works towards the use of our total resources, our defence preparations and the things that make up national cohesion. It is necessary to emphasise this because the States should come second in the scheme of things. They are not separate nations in any sense, but they have to achieve a national outlook. 
What we need at the present time is to establish what I would call a national development council. I think that the present charter under which the Department of National Development is run is not sufficient to enable it to do the job in the way it ought to be done. Therefore, 
I believe that we ought to establish a national development council. I do not know whether the Department of National Development is the right department to be responsible for such a council. This council would need to have considerable research facilities in order to collate the information and to establish the priorities as to whether and how we should use the resources of this nation. We are inclined to do things piece meal. We are inclined not to take into consideration which things should come first in the development of our nation. I believe that the body should have State representation. It ought to be established on a ministerial basis, interlocked with the Department of National Development. 
The overall policy could include investigation and research into matters of which we ought to take note at the present time. I refer to urbanisation and decentralisation. One cannot dissociate urban development from decentralisation. They go hand in hand in the development of this country. None of these things can be properly researched or developed unless we have a proper system of co-ordination and cooperation with the States. Because we are not nationally organised, as I feel we should be, we are wasting a certain amount of effort in this country. In some cases the resources are not being put to their best uses. Certain things need watching very carefully. For instance, as I see it at the present time, there is a great fall-off in the encouragement of exploration of the mineral and oil resources in this country. There has been a fall-off because of the world drop in prices for metals and because of the economics of the situation. 
Therefore, this Government ought to review very soon the taxation incentives so as to create further inspiration and incentive for risk capital to be used again for exploration in this country. If this were done we would discover that many millions of dollars would be available - no doubt some would be from overseas - which are at present frozen in the options that are available to people. I believe that many millions of dollars are waiting to be called up when the opportunity and the encouragement arise. The mining laws of the States, for instance, need a complete overhaul in order to produce a degree of uniformity. At the moment a company which is operating throughout Australia is subject to varying laws in each of the States. This is an impossible position for some companies. I know that the differences between mining laws in the States are beyond belief. People cannot get proper security for their investments because of this. Therefore, I urge the Minister not only to look at the broad concept of what 1 have suggested but also to do his best to get some degree of uniformity in the mining laws of the various States so that this problem can be rectified. 
I believe we have to regard the Department of National Development in a much broader sense than what we have in the past. Such an examination could include the matter of fuel and power but this would be doing the thing we are doing now - isolating this subject to one sphere. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. 
No, it is one I wrote out. 
I have been looking over some of the records. I think the statement which I am about to make cannot be denied. This Government's record on health services is one of its most outstanding achievements in the whole of its career. When it took office in 1949, shortly after the Australian Labor Party had been in office, the expenditure on hospital benefits was $ 12.6m, pharmaceutical benefits $600,000, tuberculosis benefits $800,000 and other items $200,000, making a total in that year of $14.2m. At that time there were no medical benefits, pensioner medical services, nursing home contributions and none of the other benefits which are now given. Compare that expenditure of $ 14.2m a year with the total expenditure on health by this Government last year of $476,313,000. (Quorum formed) 
I am sorry for that delay because it means that I will not be able to quote some of the figures I would have liked. It is of great interest to me discussing these Health estimates to see the difference of approach between the Government and the Labor Party to health services. The Labor policy is one of compulsion and of centralised control. The show that the Labor Party's present attitude has not changed I would like to quote a statement made by the Labor Minister for Health,  Senator J.  M.  Fraser, in 1945. This is Labor policy. He said: 
It is intended, although this stage has not yet been reached, that every person shall have the right to receive medical advice from a doctor whenever he is ill and without any cost to himself. This will apply in the case of every Australian citizen, including women and children, and will not be limited by any consideration of tha financial status of a patient. 
Compare that with the Government's policy, which is one of voluntary insurance and government subsidy. I think it is appropriate that I quote the words of the founder of the Government's health policy.  Sir Earle  Page in 1953 made this statement: 
The great danger in any government-aided health scheme is the tendency to develop a psychology of dependence and diminished personal and community responsibility. The fundamental aim of any social security scheme should be to raise the individual to a level at which he can help himself. Any such scheme should contain elements that encourage self-reliance and a sense of personal responsibility. Also it should stress the obligation of the individual to make at least a part of his contribution directly to the functioning and cost of the scheme. The Government is doing this by a unique device of stimulating voluntary insurance by government aid which tremendously increases the value of the premium in medical security. 
I think that this fully expresses the attitude that this Government takes and the difference between this Government and the Labor Party in relation to health services. We stand for a voluntary system. The voluntary system has been extremely beneficial throughout the period that this Government's policy has operated. We have had a lot of publicity all over Australia about the Labor Party's policy on health as we have had about its policy on education and other things. It is just fantastic that it should think it can get away with the type of policy it advocates. It does not help in the slightest degree. It is impossible to implement. The Labor Party policy is that all health services be free and compulsory. The people are to be taxed to pay for the extraordinary cost of Labor's scheme which, as the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  mentioned the other day, would no doubt involve about S240m in excess of the cost of our scheme. We would be getting towards a health expenditure of SI, 000m. 
The Labor Party talks about costing its scheme. Its members have no idea what their scheme would cost, but they would scrap the voluntary bodies that are doing a great job of work. A great amount of the cost in connection with these voluntary bodies is borne by voluntary effort by directors who do not charge for their services. All this will be wiped out and we will have one huge government commission centralised in Canberra, with an enormous build-up of public servants to control it. This is the idea. I often ask myself: Has the Labor Party gone crazy? I think it has. lt will provide free medical treatment for everyone. How it will get doctors to cooperate in this scheme I do not know. Everybody will be going to a doctor even if he has only a sore toe. How it will get enough doctors to carry out this scheme I do not know. This scheme is just impossible to implement. 
Obviously the policy of the Labor Party presupposes the nationalisation of medicine. Its scheme cannot be operated in any other way. Honourable members opposite deny that they will nationalise medicine but they are going to legalise abortions, have free abortions, provide free contraceptives on every street corner, limit parents to 2 children and legalise homosexuality. In the name of goodness, has the Labor Party gone crazy? This is all I ask, because members opposite cannot support with logic what they propose to do in the field of health services in this country. Do they suppose that the people are mad enough to take any notice of what they are saying? It is impossible to implement their policy and, indeed, it would be destructive of all the standards in this country for which we fought. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! Before I call the next  speaker  I ask honourable members to cooperate and cease interjecting. Interjections are entirely against the Standing Orders. I call the honourable member for Lang. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Is the Minister aware that exploration for minerals and oil, particularly oil, is decreasing alarmingly? Is this serious condition due to the withdrawal by the Government of certain incentives which had inspired the expenditure of considerable risk capital in this country and produced such worthwhile results in recent years? Will the Minister closely examine the unfortunate position which is developing and recommend to the Government action which will give encouragement to promote renewed interest in our mining and oil potential? 
It has been said many times that a leopard never changes its spots. Those who have just listened to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  would know that over the long period since we have had housing legislation in this Parliament the principles to which those honourable members adhered back in 1945 and of which they boasted this afternoon have not been changed in any shape or form. Those honourable members still believe in government ownership, government direction and the nationalisation of housing. I do not blame them; that is their policy. They should let the public know that that is what the Australian Labor Party stands for. 
The honourable member for Reid said that this was an historic occasion. As the honourable member said, Labor introduced the first Commonwealth and State housing agreement in 1945. The honourable member placed great emphasis upon the Chifley rate of interest - you know, the 3 per cent - as though it were something peculiar to the Chifley Government or to  Mr Chifley  or the Labor Party, lt just so happens at the time that this legislation was first introduced the interest rate was 3 per cent, which was at that time the long term bond rate of interest. Throughout the legislation dealing with housing the States have received funds on the basis of the ruling long term bond rate of interest with the exception that when the Labor Party first introduced the agreement in 1945 it gave no rebate of interest whatever to the Stales. Interest was charged at the long term bond rate. However in the legislation introduced by Labor there was an arrangement whereby the Commonwealth paid a certain percentage of the subsidised rent to certain people according to their income. That cost quite a bit of money. But there was no subsidy on the interest. 
We tend to forget these things. I happen to know a fair bit about this matter. The newer members do not seem to remember the old Act. In 1945 the Labor Government tried to set up a Commonwealth housing commission which was to be authorised to resume land all over Australia, to build all the homes in Australia and to allocate the homes to people on a rental basis, The first Act introduced by the Chifley Government, of which honourable members are so proud, made no provision for home ownership. Its only provision was for rental houses. To my way of thinking this is to the eternal discredit of the Labor Party. In the broad sense, this approach is consistent with its socialist policy. The Chifley Government was giving the people no free choice in relation to where they lived or the kind of home tha: they wanted. The Commonwealth housing commission which the Chifley Government tried to establish was challenged legally, and it was only after it was found to be unconstitutional that the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement was arrived at between the States and the Commonwealth. This came about only after the Labor Government found that it could not get away with the complete nationalisation of home building. 1 am giving the history of Commonwealth housing legislation. 
The original Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement was for a period of 10 years. There was no provision for home ownership in it. This Government had to suffer the difficulties of that Agreement until it expired in 1956. In 1956 we brought in a new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. The terms of that Agreement were on the same basis. The interest on money advanced to the States by the Commonwealth was to be at the long term bond rate, but we then introduced a I per cent interest subsidy to the States. In the first 2 years of the Agreement 20 per cent of the amount advanced was to be set aside for the home builders account, and after 1958. 30 per cent was set aside for the home builders account. lt is extraordinary that neither the Labor Party's leader in housing matters, the honourable member for Reid, nor the honourable member for Chifley, who prides himself of some knowledge of housing matters, has said a single word about the home builders account or what the building society movement in Australia has done for housing. Again this is consistent with the policy of the Labor Party. It does not want home ownership. We must never let honourable members opposite forget what was said by  Mr Dedman  when the first Act was passed. He was challenged by this Government when it was in opposition and Labor was in government. He said: 'We do not want to build a nation of little capitalists'. This stands always as Labor policy. Honourable members opposite do not want to build a nation of little capitalists. This is the background history of this legislation. 
Under the 1956 Agreement housing commissions were set up and they received their money on a 53-year term. It is interesting to note that in the 15 years since then $l,509m has been advanced to the States for housing purposes. This is a prodigious amount. Out of that amount over $485m has been allocated to the building society movement to enable people to become home owners. 1 think these figures are quite outstanding. The 53-year term enabled a revolving fund to be created in the home builders account, which meant that the money was used twice over, or more than twice over because some of the building societies lent on a 21-year term and some lent on a 28-year term. By means of a revolving fund the money was re-used before it was repaid. This was of very great benefit to the States and to housing generally. This Government has done a magnificent job in the way it has handled this matter. 
Now we come to a change and we are now to approach the matter in a different way. Instead of the Commonwealth borrowing money from the people and then lending it to the States the States are to be allowed to borrow under their own loan programme. This is an entirely different setup. Under the new legislation there will be no Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. All the necessary machinery is contained in the Bill before us. The States will receive a very substantial direct cash grant of $2.75m per annum cumulative over a period of 30 years, so that at the end of 30 years this Government will have committed itself under this Bill to an expenditure of over $4 12m. This is a very substantial amount This grant is being given in place of the rebate on interest, which has been a feature of the legislation since 1956. It must be used by the States in relation to the loans they have to raise under their own loan programme, which are of course approved by the Australian Loan Council. 
In addition the Government is giving another grant for a period of 5 years - I presume we will renew it after that - of $1.25m a year. This is specifically for the purpose of rent rebate. This is very good. Under the terms of the Bill 30 per cent of the moneys granted must go directly to the home builders account, whereas under the old Agreement  5  per cent of the money that the States received by way of loans, from the 
Commonwealth had to be set aside for the provision of Service homes. That provision is not included in this measure. Under this Bill 30 per cent of the grant is to go to the building societies or the home builders account and the requirement that 5 per cent be set aside for Service homes is eliminated altogether. The Commonwealth will pay directly for its Service homes. So this is an additional advantage, lt is a better condition than the I per cent rebate. 
I am not happy about one thing, and 1 want to express my belief. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  knows what it is. 1 believe that under this new legislation the building societies lose the advantage of the revolving fund. I think the Minister should look at this aspect. Originally the Commonwealth made money available to the States over a period of 53 years. The term of this new grant is for 30 years. Although the States will not have the advantages of borrowing over the long term of 53 years, as has been mentioned by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  this afternoon, the States will receive the benefit of the Commonwealth's sinking fund contribution over a period of 53 years. I think there may be some loss of benefit for the building society movement because of the term of the loan. The previous term of 53 years enabled a revolving fund to operate before, repayment, whereas under this system that may not be possible. I ask the Minister to look into this matter for me. 
The honourable members for Reid and Chifley stated facts that we all know. The price of homes has gone up and the cost of land has increased but they made no effort to put their finger on the cause of this, nor did they suggest how the problem may be cured or overcome. The Government knows these things; it knows what is happening. There are potent reasons, particularly in relation to land prices, why it is happening. It would take quite a long time to go into the background of this matter, which is very familiar to me, but certain outstanding points are involved, one of which is the interference by governments in the free flow of the availability of land. 
Yes, I have said it before. People forget; they talk about what they paid for a block of land in days gone by - 20 years ago - and so forth, but, in those days, local government did not require land developers to provide kerbing, guttering, properly formed and macadamised roads and footpaths. In some subdivisions, developers were required to guarantee that electricity, water and sewerage would be installed and had to give the necessary guarantees of revenue to the sewerage and water boards. All these items were not impositions upon the cost of land as they are under subdivisions which proceed today. 1 believe that Australia has reached the stage, in relation to housing and the price of land, where local government is being asked to bear far too much responsibility and com. The councils still rely entirely upon the revenue which they obtain from the rating of properties. Local government, as the third tier of government in the Australian setup, should share in the general revenue of the nation so that it might be assisted in certain respects. I believe that this is important. Local government councils are continually pressed to provide child welfare establishments and associated social requirements. They cannot be expected to do ali these things. I am not thinking only of the social programme; I am thinking of the effect that it has on increasing the cost of land. 
No, I know this situation well. I have been in local government for 25 years and I know what goes on. I am concerned about the increases in rates. While all councils, because of increases in properly values, will say that they will reduce rates by so much in the $1, they all will lake advantage of the opportunity to increase this revenue from increased land valuations. On top of that, as the honourable member for Chifley rightly said, there are the State planning authorities which do not allow subdivisions to proceed unless there is the availability of sewerage and a guarantee of its cost to the sewerage and water boards. As a result of this, land has been in tremendously short supply and it is because of the unavailability of land that competition has not existed and prices have increased. This situation has been encouraged. 
Many people are screaming about the increased taxation on motor cars in New South Wales but J think a most deplorable thing which is affecting every State is the land tax system. I played a great part in having this tax abolished in the federal system but immediately this was done the tax was imposed by all the States. It has reached such proportions that today this dreadful tax is affecting tremendously the cost of land. Something must be done about it because it cannot go on. I know of cases in certain areas - Lane Cove in my own electorate is one - where on some properties, because of municipal rates and taxes, plus water and sewerage rates and taxes, plus the special tax which is imposed for the purpose of creating parking to meet certain commercial conditions, plus the land tax, the total taxation burden is greater than the rental received from the property. In other words, the owner of a property, with all his commitments, receives no revenue for the capital he has invested. 
I am not thinking of my own revenue. The honourable member would think of his revenue in this situation. He wants an increase in salary; I know that he is a great advocate foi such an increase. Everybody is entitled to a decent return on his capital. If money is placed on fixed deposit or in banks, a certain return is expected from it. Property owners are accused of trying to rob people but this is not so. They are prepared to accept a reasonable return on their capital but today they are not getting it. They are subsidising people all over this country and are receiving no return for the money that they have invested in properties. 
Many things should be done to rectify the kind of anomalies which are arising. For instance, there is a need to examine the taxation system. In my opinion, there is a need for the Government to do more than it has been doing to stimulate the availability of lower interest rate money to the building society movement in Australia. I think the building society movement is the best possible vehicle in which people should be encouraged to invest because it is perfectly secure and is backed in every way by the Government. This is the kind of movement which the Government should be encouraging. Time does not permit me to go into the whole of this field but. one of the things I should like to see the States do - it would greatly contribute to a reduction in the cost of land - is to deal with the question of land tax and to substantially reduce this tax, or, if possible, to eliminate it altogether, because it has a dreadful effect not only upon the price of land but also upon the encouragement of investment in real estate in Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
I do not propose to speak at any great length because I do not think that is necessary after our pretty exhaustive debate yesterday on housing in general, but there are a few points on which I would like to place emphasis, and I have one interesting suggestion for the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to consider. I think we should now and then consider what a magnificent scheme this has been. The war service homes scheme was commenced in 191.9, and for the 30 years up to 1949 when this Government took office, a total of 63,000 ex-servicemen had been provided with homes at a cost of $105m. From 1949 up to June this year 261,217 ex-servicemen have been provided with homes at a cost of $1,3 3 5m. These are very big figures. I was just doing a little mental calculation which indicates that in the total period of the scheme's operation - I think it is one of the most magnificent any country has ever adopted - a total of 324,217 ex-servicemen have been provided with homes, and with their families, which is the way we normally calculate things in Australia, this means that about 1 million people have been provided with homes. These are very big figures and this scheme has had a tremendous effect upon the community. 
The interest rate that has been mentioned is a subsidised interest rate. It still stands at 3$ per cent over a period of 45 years or, in the case of widows, 50 years. I would point out to members of the Opposition who are proposing to move for further expenditure that under the existing rates of interest applicable to loans of this kind the interest rate is subsidised by approximately 4 per cent. In other words, on a loan of $9,000 an ex-serviceman is receiving a gift of approximately $360 a year or $7 a week. This is sometimes not thought of when people refer to the figures which apply to the loan. The position is not as it has been stated by a few honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  did mention this, but if honourable members read the very beginning of this Act they will find that the intention was to assist exservicemen to get a home. It is not a housing scheme in the ordinary sense but is a repatriation scheme. In other words, it is a repatriation benefit for the man who has served his country as a soldier and it must be looked at in that light. It is not subject to a means test in any shape or form although there are, of course, conditions which apply to it. For instance, an exserviceman cannot get a loan if he already owns a home. The loan is granted only once. 
I intend to make a suggestion in relation to this loan. I understand and sympathise with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who spoke of the additional costs in relation to homes in Darwin. Because of the nature of the loan, it being a repatriation benefit, it is not a loan in the ordinary sense secured upon a certificate of title of a property. The title cannot be further encumbered, without the approval of the Director of War Service  Homes or  the Minister, by a second mortgage. In certain circumstances a second mortgage can be obtained from a bank provided that the bank lends the money as a personal loan and the home is not used as security because power of sale cannot be exercised against a war service homes title in the event of default unless this loan has been approved by the Director. That is, of course, a very important factor. 
I appreciate, and I have said this before in the House, that with increasing costs the amount of $9,000 is not large and I have thought that it ought perhaps to be increased a little. I would not have been averse if it had been increased to $10,000 but I certainly do not support the amount of $15,000 that has been mentioned. That is quite absurd. As I have pointed out, every time we increase this loan by $1,000 we are giving a very considerable amount to the ex-servicemen because of the subsidised interest rate. This is the difficulty. But in my opinion there is a way by which this difficulty can be overcome and a way by which the problems referred to by the honourable member for the Northern Territory can be solved and the deposit gap about which the honourable member for Reid is so worried can be bridged. 
This Government has established an organisation called the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. The function of the Corporation is to do precisely what we want to do here, and that is to bridge the deposit gap. It is a Government organisation, as is the war service homes organisation. There is no reason in the world why special permission could not be given to the HLIC to guarantee a second mortgage taken out by an ex-serviceman at the normal current rate of interest which may be 7 per cent or 74 per cent in certain cases to enable the borrower to bridge the deposit gap under better than the normal conditions in our community. 
There is no doubt that this could be done and these people would be able to get this money because if security were given by the Government with the HLIC insuring a loan to make sure that the repayments were made then there would be no chance of default in repayment of the second mortgage and there would be no difficulty whatsoever in getting the money which a soldier may need to bridge the deposit gap. In any case I think that a system could be introduced which would require ex-servicemen to put up a reasonable deposit. I do suggest to the Minister that this is something that ought to be looked at because it is a problem and rather than increase the loan beyond the proposed$9,000to assist ex-servicemen with the excessive prices for property such a scheme would overcome this difficulty. I seriously suggest that this is something which might be looked intoI know that perhaps in certain circumstances the Director of War Service Homes may be sympathetic in permitting a second mortgage but I have known of a lot of cases in which this has become a problem because of the nature of the security required for a second mortgage. It is quite different from the average commercial considerations. 
We all know about the second loan which was mentioned by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  because every honourable member has been faced with circumstances in which people have wanted a second loan. I think that the Department of Housing which, if 1 may say so, is one of the best organised and administered departments in the Federal organisation I say quite definitely that its administration is splendid in every way should look very closely into the question of a second loan. Under no circumstances should this great housing scheme be endangered by allowing it to become the kind of scheme in which people can trade in property. 
The scheme gives a repatriation benefit in terms of the acquisition of a home for an ex-serviceman. I think that the Department is doing the right thing by not allowing a second loan unless the case calls for the utmost sympathy. But there are cases in which second loans should be granted. These are the extreme cases, and there have been many such cases. Perhaps some of us think that the Department is a little too hard in regard to this matter but I point out to honourable members and to the Government that this Department has to be very firm about the question of a second loan. If it were not second loans could interfere with the proper administration of the scheme.I hope that the Minister will take some notice of what I have suggested in relation to the bridging of the deposit gap for ex-servicemen by attaching a special condition or by permitting the HLIC to provide proper security for an ex-serviceman who needs a second mortgage. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Les  Johnson) adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that the Gift Duty Assessment Act was first introduced as a war time measure in 1941 when the taxation exemption was fixed at $1,000? ls it a fact that the exemption was raised in 1947 to $4,000 every 18 months? As the value ot money has depreciated by some 300 per cent or more since then, will the Minister give urgent consideration to raising substantially the amount of exemption and so avoid the widespread difficulties being experienced by families in adjusting their affairs and in the payment of a very unfair tax? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the widespread criticism of the decision by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to raise the price of steel, could the Prime Minister inform the House of the effect on the cost of BHP products of the Government's decision to reinstate the investment allowance as a taxation deduction? 
We are discussing an urgent Bill here tonight and one which I suggest should not call for some of the emotional and irrelevant things that have been said by members of the Opposition in relation to it. The quicker we get the Bill through and we get the money for the people who are unemployed, the better. I think there has been a great deal of unnecessary talk and that a lot of unnecessary political propaganda has been used. There is no doubt that an emergent position has arisen which has meant that we have had to revise the assistance being given to people who are unemployed. So that it will be clear in the mind of anybody who might be listening, we are discussing a Bill which will increase unemployment and sickness benefits. It will raise the present adult unemployment assistance from $10 to $17 a week, the benefit for juniors 16 years of age to 17 years of age from $4.50 to $7.50, and the benefit for those aged from 18 to 20 years from $6 to $11 a week. These are not big sums of money and may well be said to be not enough. I am not canvassing that aspect at the moment. But they are the biggest increases in unemployment relief ever given in the history of this country. 
The increases are of a material nature too, because not only are the new benefits greater in their amount but they are greater from the point of view of their purchasing power for the people who are unemployed. Therefore I think it is to the credit of the Government that it has got quickly onto this job and increased the unemployment relief payments. I know that members of the Australian Labor Party will say that the new benefits are not enough. It is very easy to say this when they are in Opposition. They are not in government and they do not have to find the money or bear the responsibility. But I remind them that when they were in government the same sort of legislation was on the statute book and they did not then take the action that they have suggested in their speeches tonight. I suggest that if they had the responsibility of government they would not be talking as they are talking now. 
I do not say that there is not a case for a bigger increase in these benefits, but I think the Government is facing up to realities and that it is giving a good increase in an emergent situation. Unemployment is a tragedy in any circumstances, particularly for the man who is out of work and more particularly, I suggest, for the family man who has a wife and little kiddies. He gets some benefit, but circumstances become tragic when a man falls out of work. There are all sorts of emotional matters associated with unemployment, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  This is true. In a sense a man can lose his self respect. 
Unemployment is a great tragedy and a tragedy that this Government deplores. The policy of this Government, which has been enunciated many times in this House since the Government has been in power for the last 23 years, has been a policy of full employment, and the Government has maintained that policy. Never has there been a greater degree of employment thanthere has been in the 23 years that this Government has been in power. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  expressed the view of a man who was a very prominent member of the Labor Party only a very few years ago. I heard him speak in this House in relation to what was an acceptable percentage of unemployed. There always will be some unemployed, not because there are not jobs for them in many cases but because unfortunately they are not able to do some of the work or accept positions or retain jobs that are available. There are those who are virtually unemployable. But today there are people who are genuinely unemployed, who cannot find jobs which they are capable of doing, so it is a different proposition today. In the 23 years that this Government has been in office it has maintained a position of full employment. Yet we have heard people on the other side of the House say tonight that this Government is to blame for the unemployment which exists in this country today and that our policy is to create unemployment. The honourable member for Oxley said that the Government created this unemployment, and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said that we have unemployment because of this Government's policy. What ridiculous nonsense this is. 
Is it suggested by members of the Opposition that we on this side of the House are heartless creatures who  aTe  trying to create unemployment? This is so absurd when we have a record of 23 years of full employment and when all our policies that have been enunciated are for the purpose of maintaining full employment. How in fairness can members of the Opposition say what they have said? AH they are doing is using the unfortunate unemployed people to bring about a political advantage for themselves. What a shameful thing to do. To my way of thinking it is disgraceful that they should take that approach and accuse the Government in that way when nobody in this country would believe such allegations. 
This Government not only believes in full employment but will be doing its best - the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has said this  -  to see that this temporary unemployment in Australia is very quickly overcome, and I have no doubt that it will succeed in doing that. The Government has already moved in this direction. We all know what it has done in the last week or so. When unemployment occurred in rural districts the Government during the last session took immediate action to make grants to the States to assist local government bodies to reduce unemployment. This action was taken in December when 'here was some degree of unemployment in rural areas. We all know what the Prime Minister has done since then. He called the State Premiers to Canberra only last week and big handouts were given to the State governments. There is no doubt that this money in the hands of the State governments will have an immense effect upon the temporary unemployment which exists today. This is a major step forward in rectifying the existing unemployment situation. 
The Government has, as we all know, taken action to reduce interest rates on loans. This is calculated to promote employment. The Government has also restored the investment allowance. The Prime Minister made this announcement last week. There are many other matters which are now under consideration by this Government for the relief of unemployment. Tt is very easy to criticise. Politics, of course, is a dirty business. It is the open season to attack the Government because this is an election year. So the Opposition - from the point of view of politics one cannot blame it - is attacking the Government and we cannot blame the Opposition for this. But from the point of view of truth and the benefit of the country we can blame the Opposition. It is open season for the Opposition to blame the Government for everything. The Australian Labor Party has been saying things and making promises to try to destroy this Government. What is the reason for this? Is.it to make things better for the people and for this country? No  Sir, that  is not the. reason. The reason is to enable the 
Opposition to become the Government. The Opposition's objective is to occupy the Treasury bench and to enable the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to become the Prime Minister. A Labor government would mean that some honourable members on the other side of this House would become Ministers. This is the aim of the Opposition. Its aim is not to help the unemployed. It is not to help the people of Australia. Members of the Opposition are prepared to play on the suffering of the people in order to deceive them as to what is best for them. The mass media - newspapers, television and radio - are publishing sensational and emotional news, sometimes completely unscrupulously, to attack the Government on the question of unemployment. Every day we hear commentators who are not very particular about the facts. They have no qualms about the damage that they do in destroying the confidence of the people of Australia. This does not concern them. They have a listening audience and this is a time when anything can be said or promised. As the Minister properly said today the communist controlled unions are also in the picture with demands for higher wages and salaries and the promotion of strikes. I do not want to dwell on the subject of  Mr Hawke  whom I consider to be one of the most dangerous men in Australia. On the one hand he instigates. encourages and promotes strikes - this has been proven - and on the other he tries to be the big fellow who comes along to cure them. 
Yes, he is  Mr Fixit.  This is pretty good psychology if he can get away with it but I do not believe that the people of Australia will fall for this kind of thing. I believe that the people are awake to  Mr Hawke,  the big man who is going to fix it. Why are the people not facing up to the facts in relation to this matter? Why does not the Opposition do anything about this unfortunate matter of unemployment? Why does not the Opposition do something to guide the people in understanding the situation properly? Let us get together on a level of national unity to deal with a problem when it becomes a national problem. The truth is, although nobody says so, that the whole world is in a confused state at the present time. There is not one country thai is not in a confused economic condition at the present time, although the world has just experienced the most prosperous period in the history of man. We are entering another phase. Inflation is a menace in every country. There is a currency instability which has not yet been settled. This will pers,4 in every country until confidence is restored in the people and we get back onto an even keel. 
There is a high rate of unemployment in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France and even in Japan. Do those countries blame this Government for their unemployment situation? Does the United Kingdom blame this Government for the unemployment in England? What is the cause of unemployment? There must be a general reason. Why are the members of the Opposition so parochial as to want to use this unfortunate situation of unemployment to say the things that have been said tonight instead of looking at the problem in a broad, national way and making an effort to cure the problem of unemployment in the interests of this nation? We all bear the responsibility for curing unemployment. All of us, including members of the Opposition, love this country. We want to see it progress. Why must we confine ourselves to narrow political attitudes in relation to this matter? 
Not only do we have this high rate of unemployment but also there is a great trade upset throughout the world. Australia is now facing a very important trade upset at the present time with the United Kingdom about to enter the European Economic Community. Britain's entry to this market will mean a dislocation of Australia's trade which has gone on throughout our history. We will now have to align ourselves more with America and Japan in trade. This is an upsetting influence. It will have an effect upon all these matters about which we are talking tonight. There will be a loss of markets for Australia and a drop in the prices for our rural products. It is amazing that we are as well off as we are. We have also had to contend with the collapse of the mining industry. It was just building up to its peak but because of world conditions it collapsed to a very large extent. Evidence of this can be seen in t':e stock markets every day. There is real danger from inflation. The present 
Prime Minister has a sense of responsibility, he knows what economics are and he will not be panicked about these things because in a panic it would be possible to destroy the future of Australia. If we did not carry out proper and effective government with a regard for the future stability and growth of this country we could destroy Australia's future. Therefore we need stable government and stable leadership. That is what we need, not these petty political things that we hear in this House. We will never have full employment until we restore confidence in the community as my friend the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  so rightly said. We still have plenty of money. As he said, savings have reached an all time high. But confidence has depreciated. We have a loss of confidence. I say, regardless of politics or which party is in government or not in government, that it is the duly of every member of the Parliament to see that he takes action in a national spirit in the best interests of Australia and in this way cure the unemployment problem. Do not let us be so petty and politically biased that we become small town politicians who are prepared to come into this place and charge the Government with being responsible for a condition which is world wide, a condition which this Government will not tolerate. This Government can be relied upon to cure it in the interests of this country and the development of this great nation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. Will the Minister inform the House whether the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement passed by this Parliament last year has been accepted by all the States and whether there is general satisfaction with its operation? 
To me it is incongruous that members of the Australian Labor Party should stand in this House and move resolutions or make statements which would indicate to the people of Australia that they favour decentralisation. The whole life of the Labor Party, the whole of its constitution, the whole of its policy, is one of centralism. They live in it. This is what their political lives are about. They believe in centralisation. The Opposition referred to the Government's failure to act to create regional development areas, to arrest the depopulation of the countryside and to slow the growth of our capital cities. As the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  said, the Opposition knows full well that dealing with these matters is a function of the States. I am not putting that up as an excuse. The Federal Government should know a lot about these things, and it has to provide a certain amount of the finance for them. But the function of putting these things into effect is the function of the State governments. That is how the matter stands. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in introducing his subject matter lauded the Chifley Government and spoke with great affection about the great work that had been done by the Department of Post-War Reconstruction under the Chifley Government. What the Labor Party did with the Department of PostWar Reconstruction was to go throughout Australia dismantling all the assets which had been created in the country districts during war time. 
I can prove this. They went and they dismantled- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member for Wilmot must withdraw the word 'lie'. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Now that the last of our combatant troops are returning from South Vietnam, will the Minister make a statement to the House and for the information of the people of Australia, covering our participation in the war in Vietnam? Will he include in the statement information about the conditions existing in Vietnam which prompted us to go to the assistance of the South Vietnamese when they were fighting desperately for their freedom from Communist aggression, and about the conditions now existing which enable them to mount and maintain their own defence? In other words, will he let all Australians know what our defence forces helped to achieve, and that this is not a withdrawal from a conflict but the completion of a job well done? 
Before the suspension of the sitting the House was discussing, and will continue to discuss, 2 emergent Bills dealing with education. Lest someone outside the House is listening to this debate I think I should state the purpose of these Bills. The first is a financial measure providing for assistance to the States for independent schools. It proposes to raise the present Commonwealth contribution to independent schools from $35 to $50 for each primary school pupil and from $50 to $68 for each secondary school pupil. The other Bill, which is being debated cognately, is for capital grants free of interest to the States for government primary and secondary schools. It provides for an additional $20m to be spent by 30th June 1973 - $6.6m in the next 4 months, although the legislation is back dated to 1st January, and $13.34m in the following 12 months. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting 3 Opposition members spoke to these Bills. The first was the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  who is an ex-school teacher.  His  line was that the Government was introducing this emergent legislation on a sordid political basis. He said that we were trying to resurrect sectarian bitterness and schism. He said that this was merely piecemeal legislation. Another  speaker  from the Australian Labor Party was the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who said that there were no independent schools in Australia. What he meant was that if the Government is to contribute money for the support of independent schools the Government should have control of those schools. He is, in effect, violently opposed to State aid for independent schools. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made one of his usual very subtle speeches. He sidestepped the issues and did not mention the Bills at all as emergent measures. He was trying to create - as he tries to create throughout Australia in almost every speech he makes on education - a division between government schools, Catholic schools and other independent schools. He is very caustic about and most critical of the quality of education, particularly in Catholic primary schools. This is not unusual. We know what his idea is in relation to this, because he has disclosed himself time and time again. He wants education to be centralised under a huge commission which would deal with the 10,000 schools throughout Australia. He would centralise government and independent schools, whether they be Catholic schools or schools of other denominations, under one commission. It is on this basis that he proposes to decide how money is to be allocated on a needs basis in accordance with the scheme which is now being adopted in South Australia. This is clear because I have a copy of a statement he made in which he said that South Australia has provided, on a State level, a model of how the needs policy could work on the Federal level. 
This is a dangerous thing for the people of Australia to come up against because the Labor Party is not applying itself in the same way as I believe the Government wishes to apply itself to education. There is a great divergence of opinion on the approach to education between the Government and the Labor Party. The Government believes in a true democratic approach. It believes that education is far more than academic perfection. Under the commission idea with a needs basis everything is related to the question of academic perfection. The Government believes that education should aim to make good citizens, loyal citizens and able citizens - to make men and women who appreciate the need in our society of high moral values, respect for each other, respect for the rights of others and for the dignity of the individual. This cannot be achieved under a Socialist system in which a huge commission would control education in Australia. The Government stands for more local and decentralised control of education but the Opposition - the Labor Party - has always stood for centralised control, not only in education but in everything it does. 
The honourable member knows that this is in the policy of his Party. This is the policy for a Socialist society. Members opposite never believed in independent schools and for years past they fought State aid tooth and nail until fear of political reaction made them try to get on the band wagon. Leaders of the 
Labor Party are divided among themselves and there is specific proof of this. One has only to refer, as I propose to do, to some of the statements that have been made. I shall quote what  Senator Murphy  said in the Senate on 1st December last. These words appear at page 2252 of Hansard. He said: 
The policy of the Austral:an Labor Party is crystal clear. The policy is as stated in the amendment moved by  Senator Wheeldon  and which is about to be voted on by the Senate. That policy sets out that there should be an Australian schools commission to examine the needs of students in government and non-government schools and to make recommendations for grants to the States on the basis of needs and priorities. In making these recommendations the commission shall have regard to: 
This is important - 
the primary obligation of the governments to provide and maintain government school systems of the highest standard open to all children; 
That means government schools first, lt wa&lt; so stated by me some 3 or  4  years ago when the policy was first adopted by the Australian Labor Party and it was confirmed in this Chamber by the mcn shadow Minister for Education, the late  Senator Cohen. 
That was somewhat damaging politically for the Leader of the Opposition so the next day he tried to smooth this over, [n this House on 2nd December 1971 the Leader of the Opposition said: - 
The Minister purported to give the interpretation that the schools commission, which the Labor Party has undertaken to establish, would give assistance to government schools before it gave any to non-government schools, lt is plain from the reading of the document that the form of assistance will be on the basis of  the  investigations made by this expert body and reported to the Parliament and to the public. It may be that there are some non-government schools which fall further short of acceptable standards and have larger class sizes than government schools. 
He did his usual shuffle to try to get away from any political stigma. Then on 9th December the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  the Opposition's shadow Minister for Education, made an extraordinary statement which shows the division that exists in the Labor Party. He said: 
However, I want to say something about this system of making per capita grants to private schools. Surely it is not beyond the wit of man to devise in each State a Catholic education authority and an education authority for the other independent schools, to make a grant to them which may be calculated on a per capita basis and for them to be given the right to spend the money according to need. The Government may, lay  down guidelines of need, but a Catholic education authority in Western Australia, shall we say, would get approximately $4.37m - I think that is what the grant will be - and that Catholic education authority could spend the $4.3 7m according to need. 
Yes, there is a great deal of difference between what the Leader of the Opposition said and what the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate said. It is an enormous difference. There is no doubt that the Opposition's approach to education seeks the centralisation of education and non-assistance to independent schools wherever it can be done. There is a great need for the legislation before the House and the Government realises that there is need for assistance to state schools for capital expenditure. It was because of the urgency of this need that the money provided under this legislation is sought to be given. However, this is not the only money that has been given. Last year under the Appropriation Bill there was an enormous increase in the amount made available to the States for expenditure on education. In addition to that at the Premiers Conference only a week or two ago an allocation of $32m was made to the States for emergency expenditure. It was expected, of course, that some of this would be spent on schools. In this regard New South Wales immediately allocated $2m, Victoria $2.5m, South Australia a poor $400,000, Western Australia allocated nothing - it and South Australia are States which are under Labor Party control - and Tasmania allocated $830,000. This is indicative of the approach that the Labor Party has to education. 
The Government is prepared to help, and is helping, and there is a great improvement in the standards of public schools in Australia - there is no question about that - but there are new areas opening up everywhere and many extensions and improvements to schools are necessary. There is also a great need for the per capita grant which is made to independent schools. The amount provided under the legislation with which we are dealing tonight pre-dates to 1st January while the Bills simply put into effect a promise made by the Prime Minister at the beginning of December. It was just in time to save the closing of many independent schools in 
Australia. With costs continually rising and the salaries of teachers increasing, a crisis has developed in independent schools in many of our states and Ml credit is owing to the Minister for Education and Science, who is now at the table, and particularly the Prime Minister for the emergency action that they took so that the schools would know what they were able to do in the new term which was to open early in the new year. If it had not been for this action the schools would have been closed. All over Australia parents and children are grateful for what the Government has done. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Yesterday the honourable member for Reid asked whether the Government would take action to control what he called the over building of the central business districts of our cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, and to control major insurance companies and other forms of foreign investment for this purpose. As the research and planning for this type of investment takes a long time to mature, does the Prime Minister think that commercial and industrial construction now needs control in Australia? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizzens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
We are resuming a debate which began last Thursday on a statement made in this House by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  I asked him to make that statement because I felt that now that our combatant troops have returned from South Vietnam the Australian people should know not only what they did but the results of their achievements. I wish only that every man and woman in Australia could read the Minister's statement because it is a very good one. I believe it is necessary to place on record, for the sake of history, our participation in the conflict in South Vietnam. It is unfortunate that over the years the work of our forces and the magnificent things they did in Vietnam have been distorted by fierce propaganda which, I am sorry to say, was aided and abetted greatly by the Australian Labor Party, particularly by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who is now sitting at the table. This made the task of our forces much more difficult than it need have been. 
I believe no-one who reads the Minister's statement could be but completely proud of the part that Australia played in that conflict, proud of the performance and sacrifice of our servicemen and women who took part. Perhaps more importantly, they could not but be proud of the hope and strength that our troops gave to the people of South Vietnam. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  spoke after the Minister for Defence had concluded his statement and I think his response was pathetic. All he did was to tear to shreds the high motive of Australia. That motive was to give the people of South Vietnam a chance to have freedom. There was in the  Deputy  Leader's speech not one word of congratulation for the magnificent performance of our servicemen who fought in the name of Australia by order of the properly elected government of Australia. The view of the Australian Labor Party is that the whole of this conflict was wrong. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went on to say that the North Vietnamese could never be defeated, that we were to blame for turning a local insurgency into a war and that all we succeeded in doing was to give time and help to the South Vietnamese to build up a powerful fighting force. He said also that North Vietnam was only biding its time and that a gory conflict - I am using his words - would end in a full scale war. Sometimes I wonder whose side the Labor Party is on. In its opinion would the proper course have been to hand over the whole of this area to the communists without any conflict and without offering any help to the South Vietnamese? That is the only alternative to what we did and to what our troops did. 
Why did we go into Vietnam? It is necessary to remind ourselves, because we tend to forget about these things, that when the Second World War ended every independent country in South East Asia was ravaged by internal communist aggression and that very often this aggression was aided by either China or Russia. We all remember what happened in North Korea and South Korea and the part we played in the war that took place there. We know about the communist infiltration and aggression in Singapore, Malaya and, indeed, Indonesia, which was lucky to escape complete communist domination, as well as in Thailand, in the Philippines and in Vietnam. Most of those countries - Thailand, of course, is not one - are countries which have in comparatively recent years achieved their independence. Those countries were all fighting desperately to maintain their own individual freedom and to have their own national aspirations, but every one of them without exception was infiltrated by communist aggression within, and somebody had to do something about it. 
It became necessary for the free world to set up organisations for collective security. This was properly referred to by the Minister for Defence in his statement So was born ANZUS, which is of course the greatest arrangement that this country could ever look forward to for its protection. SEATO was also born at that time as an organisation of collective security. So too was ANZAM, which is not referred to very often now but which was an arrangement between ourselves, the United Kingdom and New Zealand. We were vitally concerned with the events which were taking place in the countries to which I have referred because they were taking place in our part of the world. We, of course, took an active part in these organisations. As everybody knows, we played our part in the war that took place in Korea. We also played a great part, together with the United Kingdom, in preventing Malaya and Singapore being taken over by communists immediately after the war. I was the Minister for the Army at the time and I remember well what was happening and the fight that took place at that time to clear Malaya of communist terrorists. Had the Labor Party's policy been accepted and followed by the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and the other countries involved - the Labor Party says that that is the principle which should have been followed - all of South East Asia would now be under communist domination. No-one can deny these facts. I put that forward as the reason why we played a part - a comparatively small part but nevertheless a part which was commensurate with our ability - in the events that took place in South East Asia. 
Time does not permit me to give the whole history of these events. However, I think I should point out that it was on 26th April 1954 that the Geneva Conference partitioned Vietnam into the North and the south. Without going into the details, it is known to us all that millions of people who did not want to live under communist domination or communist rule left the north and went to the south of Vietnam. Although they were entitled to do so under the Geneva Agreements, very few people left the south of Vietnam to go to the north. A number of those who were still of communist persuasion deliberately stayed in the south to sabotage it and to sabotage the Agreements. It was on 17th April 1955 that South Vietnam appealed to the United Nations against North Vietnam violating the Geneva Agreements, which prevented North Vietnamese going to the south. We do not hear much about these things now because memories are short. 
The initial help from the United States was of only an advisory nature. I visited Vietnam in 1959 and, even at that time, we were giving considerable help to the South Vietnamese. We did not have official instructors or advisers there then, but we did have some of our people giving advice. We were at the. military college at Da Nang. We were also trying to help the South Vietnamese in other ways. We sent experts to Vietnam to assist the South Vietnamese to establish a dairy at Bien Cat. Well do I remember visiting this dairy, which was being sabotaged and where cattle were being killed every night. On the afternoon I visited it there were 250 troops with machine guns in the trees to guard me. I know I am not worth guarding, but that is what happened. I remember that clearly. We also sent military instructors to South Vietnam. That decision was first announced on 24th May 1962. By 1965 - it is interesting to think back on this because up to that time North Vietnam was denying that she was taking any active participation in the action or the aggression which was taking place in South Vietnam - it became obvious that, with the active support of and propped up by Russia and China, the North Vietnamese had in many ways overrun the south and the South Vietnamese were unable to help themselves. The Americans having started to help the South Vietnamese, at the request of South Vietnam we made a decision in this House on 29th April 1965 to commit our troops to active participation in South Vietnam. I remind honourable members that the Australian people were behind this Government when that decision was made. Two or three elections were fought on the issue of our active, participation in South Vietnam and the people of Australia gave this Government a mandate to carry on this participation. The gallup polls at that time indicated clearly that a vast majority of the people of Australia approved our activities in Vietnam. 
They indicate differently because of the sabotage of the Labor Party and of the stunts which have been performed - moratorium marches and what have you. In any case, I want to point out briefly but clearly to the House some of the results that have been achieved. I want to emphasise that the bringing home of our combatant troops -  of course, we have left some assistance there - is no more a withdrawal from a conflict than the flying home by the Americans of some of their troops is a withdrawal from a conflict. The objective that we sought to achieve by going to Vietnam has been substantially achieved. South Vietnam now has a formidable army. It has well equipped and trained forces which are capable of defending that country. We gave an opportunity to South Vietnam to establish its own freedom. South Vietnam will still need certain assistance, particularly with its air force and with equipping and training its forces. 
Perhaps one of the greatest things that has been achieved has been the extraordinary advancement made in the economy of South Vietnam since the days when the South Vietnamese were attacked by the aggressive forces from North Vietnam. The South Vietnamese people went through terror at that time, but today they arc making great strides in their economy. Progress is taking place everywhere and the standard of living is rising. Fear is diminishing, which is of the utmost importance. Hope for a better future has been restored. This has all happened because we contributed our small part to allow this small nation to preserve its freedom and independence. 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that shops for the sale of sex aids have been opened in several States, and that many of the articles sold come from other countries? Is he also aware that some States have announced that they propose ito take whatever action they can to prohibit the sale and advertising of such goods? The advertising is conducted by means of pamphlets such as the one I now show to the House and which are sent through the post - quite filthy documents. In view of the depraved emphasis on sex in this and in other publications, on television and through certain other mass media, which is destroying modesty and moral discipline in our young people, will the Minister co-operate with the States in whatever way he can to restrain the inevitable destruction of a decent way of life in our society? 
My question is  directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is the Minister aware that the Australian Federation of Police Unions recently passed a resolution calling on all members of this Parliament, both Government and Opposition, to assist police to maintain law and order in the light of the growing tendency to resort to organised violence at demonstrations in the streets and in other places? Is there any evidence that certain members of this Parliament have advised, organised and encouraged demonstrations resulting in lawlessness in utter disregard of this appeal from the police association? 
Has the Prime Minister seen figures just released on the wholesale prices index of materials used in house building for the period ended March 1972? Do these figures give rise to any satisfaction regarding the Government's efforts to combat upward movements in prices? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Services. In view of the intense public interest in the Government's new social service programme announced in the Budget, will the Minister prepare a concise and clear pamphlet and wide-spread publicity to explain the entitlements of the various groups and the benefits which are to be gained? Will he have this information ready to issue to the public immediately the appropriate legislation has been approved by this House? 
1 ask the Prime Minister: In view of widespread speculation as to the date of the federal election, will he give the House and the people the benefit of his thoughts on this most important matter? 
Would the Prime Minister make perfectly clear the attitude of the Government to the flow of international credit into this country and to the possibility of the international takeover of established industries? 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  has just condemned the Government for its inactivity in relation to the resources of this country. That is extraordinary because the people of Australia know full well that until this Government came into power 23 years ago no action of the sort that this Government has taken had been taken by any previous government. The discovery of our mineral resources and the discovery of oil were initiated by this Government. A great number of the statements that the honourable member for Hawker made are mere speculation. I do not want to spend much time on this matter. But I have before me a statement by Woodside-Burmah Oil N.L. which deals with the discoveries on the north west shelf of Australia. It reads: 
In view of the many different estimates that have been publicised concerning the gas reserves discovered on the north west shelf of Australia, I feel it necessary to issue a formal statement on the subject, and to emphasise that statements from unofficial sources should be disregarded. 
I also have a statement from the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  which states that there is not sufficient evidence on which to base any definitive estimate of the size of the reserves. 
The remarks of the honourable member for Hawker were mere speculation for political purposes. The honourable member heard me ask a question of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  only 2 days ago on this very matter. The people of Australia can rely on the fact that this Government will not allow foreign investment to get out of hand. Were it not for the investment of foreign capital in this country, we would never have reached the stage of prosperity and development in Australia that we have reached today. There is no doubt about that. Complaint has been made that Americans are spending many millions of dollars in the northern part of Australia and that we are selling our land. All that the Americans are doing is investing money to develop the land. It is still our land. They cannot take it away. We want development and we want to encourage people from other countries to invest in Australia, but we do not want them to go beyond a certain limit and we will ensure that they do not. It is of great credit to Australia that it is looked upon as the safest investment in the world, lt is the safest investment in the world only because it has had a stable government for the last 23 years. 
I do not want to spend any more time on that subject. I want to talk about the Budget. In my opinion, this Budget will go down in history as the most beneficial Budget for the people which has ever been produced in this country. It is a well thought out Budget; it is designed to bring justice to the people; it is well balanced; it will inspire confidence; it will create the incentive to develop; it will assist unemployment; it will raise the standard of living and, above all, it will preserve the stability of our economy. Time does not permit me to go into the detail of the Budget because I now have only 15 minutes at my disposal. The Budget provides benefits to people on low incomes, to retired and semi-retired people on superannuation and fixed incomes, to the old, the ill or the infirm and to those who are just growing up - the young people of our community. The Budget will assist small business men and those about to start in business. I sug gest to the people - whoever may be listening to this parliamentary broadcast - that they should get the details of this Budget because the effects of the Budget are not yet widely known to the people. They should obtain them and find out in what way they will benefit. Whilst I do give a pat on the back to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  for the provisions of this Budget and I do not in any way detract from the splendid work that he has done, I believe that great credit must be given to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for this best of all times Budget. 
While the mass media in Australia has been relentless in a personality assassination of him, he has been busy behind the scenes working on a programme to give this country a new lease of life, and it is a new lease of life indeed. No-one who knows the Prime Minister will deny that he is a man of outstanding ability and an administrator and economist the equal of which there are very few in Australia. He is a prodigious worker, as we all know, and he is dedicated to his task. This Budget is not something cooked up for the election but is the result of many months of planning, research and imagination. 
No Prime Minister who took office in Australia has done so in more difficult circumstances. Every country, in recent years, has been suffering from revolutionary changes. These are not yet fully adjusted. We all know that every country has suffered with inflation the same as Australia has suffered. It is not peculiar to this country, as some people like to make out, but it is less in Australia than in many other countries. The great confusion in the value of our currency, about which we have heard a lot, has created a psychological fear and an instability, and this has been running too. These are the circumstances in which this Prime Minister has had to work. The trade patterns all over the world have altered, particularly through the United Kingdom joining the European Economic Community. 
Our defence preparations have been vitally affected by the United Kingdom withdrawing its forces from South East Asia. Labor charges this Government and the Prime Minister with deliberately creating unemployment. This is a dastardly statement because it cannot be substantiated in any way. This is not the only country suffering from unemployment. Every major country is suffering from it. The United Kingdom, United States of America and even West Germany and Japan have suffered from it. Does the Labor Party blame this Government for the unemployment in all the countries? 
Oh, yes! This is just so stupid. In the rural industries, which have been very hard hit, prices have slumped, markets have disappeared and the drought conditions in recent years have not helped. Yet the Prime Minister, despite all these difficulties, has not pressed the panic button. He has kept his cool and has worked on. Very few people know the work that the Prime Minister initiated behind the scenes in the preparation of this Budget. He- is the only Prime Minister I know of who has set up an extensive system of research with committees of the Party investigating every aspect of government. The findings were brought together under the Federal Secretariat of the Liberal Party and decisions made with a full understanding of the effect on the national economy. The welfare of the people was considered with due regard to priorities and in an orderly fashion. This, I believe, is the essence of good government. These things do not just happen; they are not haphazard or a catch as catch can policy playing to the gallery - the type of thing that the Labor Party does with special privileges for certain sections. 
This is a national Budget that will do great things for Australia. I have said that it gives Australia a new lease of life. There is no doubt that the welfare of those in need has been cared for. The means test is to be abolished in 3 years. If I am any judge of this Government the means test could well be abolished before 3 years, and 1 certainly hope it will be. This Budget gives to every child throughout Australia basis, in collaboration with the States. The economy has been stimulated to cope with unemployment. Yet, there are charges from the other side of the House that nothing is being done about unemployment. Why, the whole Budget is based on overcoming unemployment. Some $500m or $600m extra will be in the hands of the people. If that does not have an effect on unemployment I do not know anything the right to a good education on a national about the subject. 
Taxation has been reduced by a record amount for every taxpaying man or woman. 1 have tried to look up the records on this aspect, but I could not find any occasion in the history of Australia when higher reductions of taxation were made - 10 per cent right across the board. Everything that could be done within out resources has been done and we have scraped the bottom of the barrel to do it. Let there be no mistake about this: Further expenditure can be entered into only by increasing taxation. What does the Labor Party think about these things? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has moved an amendment to the Budget condemning it for various reasons. All of his proposals would involve immense increases in taxation. Labor must make up its mind. Either it agrees or disagrees with the priorities of expenditure in the Budget. If it disagrees, it must say so and tell the people what it would put in place of the items opposed. In other words, it must choose its priorities. If it agrees with the Government's proposals but wants more and wishes to bring in additional items, it can do so only by increasing taxation. These are the facts of life it must face. 
The truth is that Labor has already announced a great number of things it would do if elected to office which are far beyond the people's capacity to pay for, even with an enormous increase in taxation. I believe that this is sheer, unadulterated irresponsibility. Does the Leader of the Opposition take the people to be idiots who cannot see through his false promises? The Leader of the Opposition - I never like to be personal - is a very vain man. He likes to strut the stage and project his commanding stature in the hope that people will believe him and trust his word. I can assure him that the people do not trust him: They think he is phoney, and they are right. He knows these things himself. He knows that what he is putting up is quite false and yet he puts it up. I attribute this description to him and I believe that is what the people will call him. 
Let us look at some of Labor's promises. I cite some of the published promises which it is a good idea to examine. It is proposed to increase pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. This, together with fringe benefits, abolition of the means test and other benefits already in the Budget would require a very large sum of money indeed. The Leader of the Opposition has announced a S 10Om handout - giving S 100 to every pensioner and to all the unemployed. This is very big money and 1 do not know exactly how he justifies it in the circumstances. Speaking about hospitals on 1st August in Queensland, the Leader of the Opposition said. 
Under Labor we will restore free hospitals in all States. 
I ask the public: How much would that cost? After all, it is a question of money. On 16th July last the Leader of the Opposition promised free off-peak rail travel for most Australians. Where do we go from there? In regard to education, the Leader of the Opposition would set up a huge commission in Canberra to control all education in Australia, taking away all State rights - that is what it would mean with control in Canberra - and indeed the inalienable right of parents to send their children to whichever school they choose. 1 have no doubt that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will deal with that matter later. 
I think this is a good one! The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the shadow Minister for Social Services, announced on 28th February last a national social security policy to cover all Australians 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The scheme would be compulsory and it would cost $ 1,850m a year to run. I do not know whether the people want that sort of thing. Also,  Mr Hayden  has promised free dental service to schools. 
I do not propose to take vew much of the time of the House because I think the occasion does not justify it. The details of the scheme have already been explained to the House and I do not want to spend a great deal of time on it. I do not want to over-emphasise it so far as you are concerned,  Mr Speaker,  because whilst you have been concentrating upon old people and their troubles, I understand on good authority that you have just become a grandfather. So you must be concentrating in your mind on very young people at the present time. I am sure the House congratulates you. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Do the activities and policies of the States have a vital effect on employment opportunities? Is it a significant fact that the Labor controlled States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania have the highest percentage of unemployment in Australia? 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and his leader, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  obviously do not like this legislation. One can assume from what they have said today that, if they became members of a government in this country, they would cancel out the homes savings grant scheme. So, the young people of Australia can realise that if the Australian Labor Party becomes the government next year no longer will they receive this very great benefit that has been given to them by this Government. This Bill is really a splendid and very generous expansion of the homes savings grant scheme which has been administered so ably by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I congratulate him. 
The scheme provides a free gift lo young people under the age of 36 years. On this occasion the free gift has been increased from $500 to $750 provided they save up to $2,250 over 3 years or more. That does not mean 3 years; it means 3 years or more. To put it another way that I think young people might understand fairly well, because most of these young people ought to start to save for a home when they start working, this is a gift of $1 for every $3 they save and put into an appropriate place, lt is a big item. It is tax free. For every $3 they put in the Government will give them a free gift, free of tax, of another $1. The legislation provides for the maximum value of the home to be acquired to be increased from $17,500 to $22,500. That is a very big increase. I will say more about that later. Under certain conditions the legislation provides for credit unions to be recognised as accepted authorities with which to deposit money. I will say more about that later, too. 
I want to impress upon honourable members - the Opposition seems to have lost sight of this altogether - that the whole purpose of this scheme is to encourage young people to save for their future home. It is not intended to be a complete cure for the housing problem. Its purpose is a far reaching one. It is designed to create better citizenship in the broad sense and to inspire an acceptance by young people in 
Australia of their responsibilities in their future life. It encourages some personal sacrifice. I think, having lived a long time in this world, that one's life should be made up of sacrifices for worthwhile objectives. This legislation will encourage that spirit in young people. In this day and age I know of no more worthy objective for young people. This scheme will stop young people from frittering away their lives on worthless activities and give them the desire to save. That is the first aspect of the legislation from a moral standpoint. 
But there ls another aspect of it which is just as great. The legislation makes home ownership possible. The Labor Party is obviously against home ownership. Young people should aspire to the objective of family life and owning a home. This scheme preserves the sanctity of family life which is the basis, as 1 see it, of a great nation. If this is a worthwhile scheme that encourages this sort of moral spirit in young people, I do not know why the Labor Party should be crying out and objecting to it. That seems to me to be a completely false approach. Honourable members opposite are putting above the moral values of this scheme for the young people of Australia their political ideal of a complete socialist society. Let us look at the results that have been achieved. They are really pretty formidable. This scheme was started in only 1964. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said that savings with credit unions should be recognised as acceptable forms of savings. I wish to point out that the Bill provides that savings with a credit union will be regarded as acceptable forms of savings if the credit union concerned is prepared to advance 20 per cent of its annual lending towards home ownership, which is a fair thing. Included in the list of approved organisations for the savings of young people are the savings banks. These banks are one of the greatest contributors to home ownership in Australia. The acceptable places for the deposit by young people of money to save for homes are financial organisations whose main objective is to provide money for home ownership and for people to acquire a home of their own. Fixed deposits with trading banks for the purpose of saving for a home are also acceptable. The necessity to purchase land can be anticipated by young people. They can buy it on terms many years ahead of when they want to acquire a home. They can buy it in anticipation of being married and wanting to get a home. The paying off of land is another acceptable form of saving for which young people can get the gift of Si for every $3 they have saved. 
I think the greatest of all the acceptable organisations insofar as savings are concerned are the building societies, particularly the permanent building societies, in Australia. The stage has been reached where the permanent building societies in Australia are providing more money for home ownership than any other organisation. They pay 6 per cent interest on deposits and one's deposits are available at any time. I wish to point out to the young people of Australia that there is no better repository for their savings than the permanent building society movement. Not only can young people get a good return on their savings with building societies and ultimately be entitled to the gift that I have referred to but also they can be sure that if they are a shareholder in such an organisation and they want to build a home they can take advantage of the availability of its money to complete their transaction. 
It is interesting to note that in the 12 months to 30th June last 41,735 people applied for and 38,674 were granted home savings grants totalling $17m. In the short period of 8 years since the inception of this wonderful scheme, 248,922 grants have been approved for a total of $108m. Let us reflect on that for one moment. The fact that there have been almost a quarter of a million approvals of applications means, because the applicants would be married couples, that half a million people have benefited from this legislation. If each of those families had one child it would mean that three-quarters of a million people in Australia have benefited from this legislation in the short period of 8 years. Yet the Australian Labor Party denigrates this scheme. It would wipe the legislation off the statute book if it were in power. I fail to understand where the Labor Party's principles lie. There is no doubt that the Labor Party does not like the scheme, although it says by word of mouth that it approves of it, because it does not accord wholeheartedly with the idea of home ownership. The Labor Party wants to build a socialist society in this country, which would mean Government ownership and not private ownership. 
I have taken the trouble to look into this matter a little further. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the shadow Minister for Housing who would be the Minister for Housing if the Labor Party were to win the next general election, is the spokesman for the Labor Party on these matters. Therefore one can take what he says as being the authority for the Labor Party's policies. On 22nd May of this year he was reported as saying in the 'Daily Telegraph' that Labor, when elected, would return to the Chifley formula. In case the significance of that statement is not understood I would point out that the Chifley formula was the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement in which no provision whatever was made for home ownership. It sought to encourage a rental community and not a home ownership community. The Labor Party seeks to encourage a rental community. On 22nd April 1972 the honourable member for Reid was reported in the Daily Mirror' as saying that the home savings grant was only a bribe. Today the honourable member for Hughes said that it is only political expedience. Those are extraordinary statements. 
On 28th February of this year the honourable member for Reid - the spokesman for the Labor Party on housing - said in an article written by him in the 'Daily Telegraph' that Labor would set up a department of urban affairs to control the allocation of resources for housing. I draw attention to the use of the word 'control'. I do not blame the Labor Party if it is socialist, which it admits it is, and does not believe in home ownership, which it apparently does not, for wanting to return to the Chifley formula. It is understandable in those circumstances that if the Labor Party were in power it would create a department to control the allocation of resources for housing. That would mean the centralisation of the whole of the affairs of housing in Canberra. It would be, I think, a pretty forlorn outlook for the young people of Australia. 
The home savings grants scheme is not, as I have said, intended to be a complete housing scheme. I have mentioned what it is designed to achieve. This is not the time, as honourable members would know, to discuss the whole policy of the Government on housing. But there are many benefits to be derived in the housing field. These include the benefits to be derived under the war service homes scheme, the homes for the aged scheme, the nursing homes scheme and the housing loans insurance scheme. There is also the fact that the Government allocates large sums of money to the State governments. The old Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement has disappeared. The States are now free to apply the vast sums of money that they get as they please. After all, the States are the responsible authorities for housing. Payments to or for the States for works and housing this year will be S3,450m, which represents 34 per cent of the total Commonwealth Budget. 
A total of $3,450m, which represents an increase of $395m this year. The honourable member for Reid made great play on the question of land costs. I want to mention something about land costs. Having had just on 50 years experience of this kind of thing. I know something about it. It is true that land costs have increased to a greater extent in New South Wales than they have increased in any other State in Australia. That being so, we ought to have a look at some of the reasons for the increase. There are 2 fundamental reasons why land prices have increased in New South Wales. We know that land prices have increased in every country in the world. They have also increased in the other States of Australia. Two factors apply in New South Wales that do not apply in all the other States of Australia. In the first place New South Wales continues the old pre-war controls up to this date. It therefore has completely destroyed the incentive for this type of investment. That position still persists in New South Wales. That is No. 1. New South Wales, I repeat, is the only State in Australia that maintains those controls. 
Point No. 2 was mentioned by my colleague, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  Labor was in power in New South Wales for many years, until a short time ago when the Liberal Party took over there. Labor created what it called the Cumberland County Council. The Cumberland County Council immediately started to restrict and control the availability of land. A green belt was reserved around Sydney and none of the land inside that green belt was permitted to be subdivided. As a result of that an artificial shortage of land was created in New South Wales. I do not give much credit to the Liberals for not coming in with a big stick and completely altering this set-up. However, the Liberal Party tried to alter the position by creating the State Planning Authority in place of the Cumberland County Council. Honourable members opposite may blame various people for the rising prices of land in New South Wales and in particular in Sydney. I lay the blame on the New South Wales Government's controls, the planning authorities and in some cases the stupid local councils. I know that this is perfectly true. The Opposition blames this Government. The Commonwealth Government has nothing whatever to do with the factors that increases the price of land in Australia or the actions taken to increase the price of land in Australia. The State governments are responsible for the price of land. 
I know that the price of land has risen beyond a reasonable limit but it has risen only because sufficient land is not available. I tell the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  that this position is not cured by the Government's resuming and owning land all over Australia. The position will never be cured that way. I know that if places like Canberra are created certain action has to be taken. The price of land will never be reduced unless a competitive spirit is involved and more land is released to outstrip the demand. That is the only way the price of land can be reduced. Even in Canberra the price of land is increasing. In Canberra there is not sufficient availability of land. This is because, of government controls. This is where the guilty people, the State planning authorities, fall down; they circumscribe and prevent the availability of land and thus cause prices to increase. These are the problems we have to overcome. They are very big problems. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced a scheme last night that takes the first step towards amalgamating with the States to bring about the desired effect. 
Has the PostmasterGeneral seen this morning's Press reports flowing from the tabling of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's annual report yesterday? Do these comments relate to the recent public discussions on the supervision of the ABC's programmes? 
Can the Minister for Customs and Excise inform the House "of any further developments in the negotiations taking place in connection with the Moomba-Sydney pipeline? 
The statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  which we are discussing I think is the most timely move that we have had in this Parliament, and is of great national importance. It is quite pleasing for me to note from the speeches on both sides of the House that there seems to be very little opposition to the idea of creating this authority. There are certain differences in principle which I shall refer to shortly, but it would appear that the whole Parliament is in accord with the statement of the Prime Minister. I do not think that people realise at this time the potential or the magnitude of the scheme that has been floated by the establishment of this authority which, as we know, it is to be called the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. Of course, it will make recommendations for final decision by a ministerial council, and I rather like that idea. 
Two matters are mentioned in the report: Firstly, the development of centres which are referred to as growth centres and secondly, the formation of submetropolitan centres around existing cities. The authority will go much further than that when it really gets going. We have to realise that what we are doing, in effect, is laying the foundation for a great new nation. As the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  properly said tonight, we are living in the last continent on earth to be developed into a great nation. We have a responsibility in relation to this. Australia has grown up in a short period of time - about 200 years - and there has been great development. But it is only in recent years that we have made discoveries of the enormous potential of Australia's natural resources. Whilst we have only 13 million people in Australia at present and 6 States with their own independence, in the future our population will be 100 million or 200 million. If people will understand this, we are now actually laying the foundation for the development of a great nation in an orderly fashion. That is the thing that really matters - orderly development. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  stated that decentralisation was a new-found interest of the Prime Minister. I can assure the honourable member that this matter was not hastily decided at all. Considerable research has gone on. I know that it has been going on in the Australian Country Party, the Liberal Party and in the joint Party room. It has been discussed on several occasions. Several members on this side of the House have made a very deep study of this matter and are very well informed as to the progress which should be made in the future. This applies particularly, if I may say so, to the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  who spoke earlier tonight. He is quite an expert on this subject. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who was formerly the Minister for National Development, and many others have done quite a lot of study on it. I have made a considerable study of it. Over the last 10 or 12 years I have spoken in this House and urged that an authority of this kind be established because it is the only orderly way in which to gather information concerning the development of Australia's natural resources. The Government's proposal only starts a programme. This authority will go on for all time. Its job will never be finished. There is a great need, of course, at this particular time for its establishment. 
Mention has been made tonight of the overcrowding of cities. We know that over 60 per cent of Australia's population lives in the cities and 40 per cent is in the 2 great cities Sydney and Melbourne. This situation is quite wrong, of course. In a condition like this we must initiate new growth centres. In doing this we have to have proper research done so that we will know what we are doing. The problem is not only merely trying to shift people into residential positions. This is not it. The whole complex of a modern society has to go along with the people. This is not an easy matter - indeed, it is very complex. The cities have grown up rather like Topsy because we have not had a proper coordinated arrangement in Australia. There has been no real forward thinking to utilise our resources on a national basis with a proper understanding of priorities. This is a very important matter. I know that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has spoken on it on a number of occasions. On examination it will be seen that there has been a considerable duplication and a certain amount of waste in Australia's growth up to this point because we have not had proper understanding with the States. 
There are 4 essentials that we must consider. Firstly, the national Government must itself have knowledge of the overall requirements to develop the nation. It must have that knowledge and, therefore, it must establish an authority which can, under the Prime Minister, gather together the information that is needed to develop a total nation. This cannot be done except with the co-operation of the States. Australia has an unusual set-up - different, I think, from that of any other country - with 6 States with sovereign powers and so forth. I know that the Opposition can see a way around this and I will mention that in a moment. However, development and decentralisation must go hand in hand. Urban development cannot be separated from decentralisation. We must develop a national spirit, which must be fostered between the States and the Commonwealth, to build the nation on a system of federalism. This is quite different from what the Opposition says. As I said, the collaboration of the  States in  this matter is an essential part of the plan. I am sure that I can speak for the Government in saying that there is no intention whatever on the part of this Government to try to superimpose its authority on the States. This must never be thought. They must operate in close co-operation, because the States are really the operating vehicles to carry into effect the overall decisions that are made in the national interest. 
We know that there are jealousies within the borders of the States, and rightly so. It is a good spirit to see - that the States themselves are jealous of their own development. It is imperative now for the national Government to be aware of the details of orderly growth. The States, local government and certain special authorities must come into this so that we' achieve a complete and absolute national outlook. I stress that. Labor, whilst accepting the idea, adopts the same approach as it does to almost everything else. Its idea is centralised control. The cat was let out of the bag tonight by the honourable member for Hughes. He mentioned that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  saw section  96  of the Constitution as a charter for public enterprise. What he means is a charter for socialism or government ownership. Of course, under section  96  this can be done. It is merely a matter of giving money with a tag to it for certain purposes. That is what it amounts to. If you do that, you dominate the States. 
The statement made tonight by the honourable member for Hughes can be linked with the statement made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  That statement was printed and I know that he will not deny it. He said that if Labor came to power it would set up a department of urban affairs and regional development, the main function of which would be to control the allocation of resources. That must mean, of course, that Labor's idea of development is completely centralised control in Canberra, with government ownership as far as it can possibly go. This Government does not believe in that. It believes in federalism and carrying out its functions in co-operation with the States. Labor's idea was tried before by the Chifley Government. Honourable members will recall the Department of Post-War Reconstruction and the actual setting up of a national housing commission to deal with all housing throughout Australia. That was challenged in the court and found to be invalid. Then the Government had to approach the States and create what we have known as the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, which is not really operative at the present time. This is only an indication of the thinking of the Labor Party in relation to this matter. 
There is great danger for Australia if Labor comes to power because its attitude will be to develop this country with centralised control, in which the authority of the States, local government and other authorities will disappear altogether. Of course, this is socialism in its extreme form. That is the policy of the Labor Party, and I presume that the honourable member for Reid who is sitting at the table will not deny it. Honourable members opposite differ from us. The honourable member for Reid is always telling us that a Labor government would resume or acquire all land surrounding cities. It would control the whole thing and provide the services. Has he any idea of what the astronomical cost would be? Such action would not be necessary under a proper cooperative scheme. No doubt the alternative would be a plan to release land, with the provision of services far in excess of demand. Its great cost to owners under those circumstances would make it prohibitive for them to keep land and they would thus reduce its price. That is the proper way to do it, but this will, never be done under a Labor system. 
It is only in the new growth centres, as was mentioned in the Prime Minister's statement, that it is necessary for the Government to dictate the conditions of landholding, where the Government is spending capital on development as it did in Canberra. But this cannot be done in the ordinary way around the established cities. 
There is no question that, without an authority of this kind, decentralisation scheme cannot be effective. It is like the old adage: You can lead a horse to water but you cannot make it drink. You cannot drive people&gt; You have to make available facilities and the conditions so that people will want to go there. They are human beings and they have their choice. My only warning to the Government is not to leave the practical decisions merely in the hands of academics planners. They have already caused enough damage in this respect. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

It is a great pity that today's proceedings are not being broadcast because if they were some of the people, would have heard the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and backed up by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  It is also a great pity that although the 2 honourable members are conscientious and very nice members - I am fond of both of them - their ignorance in housing is pathetic; they just do not know what they are talking about. The amendment in part states: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by SI. 
As an instruction to the Government: 
To assist State public housing authorities to provide low cost housing and to reduce housing costs by - 
enabling public land development commissions to be set up in co-operation with the States to acquire necessary, land, hold it in public ownership, develop it and make it available on reasonable terms on a leasehold basis similar to Canberra prior to  1st  January 1971; 
On that basis I do not suppose they are thinking in terms of fewer than 100,000 houses. If we take 100,000 houses as a basis the astronomical cost to the Government would be about $2,000m. I do not know where a Labor government would get that money from. Of course, that is not the end of it. A Labor government would develop all sorts of things. Part (b) of the amendment states: making  grants and increased loans to State gov ernments to increase construction of public housing to reduce any public housing backlog; 
The Labor Party knows nothing at all about housing. If members of the Opposition had made any investigations at all they would know that there is no housing shortage in Australia today. There is a problem in relation to low rental housing which is being covered by what the Government and the States are doing but there is no real shortage of houses to meet the needs of the people who live in this country today. To increase the construction of public housing as the Opposition proposes would be just plainly and simply crazy. I have never heard anything like it in my life. 
It is obvious to me that the honourable member for Reid - and I would like him to listen to me for one moment because I do not have long to talk during this debate - does not understand what a proposal like this on a leasehold system means in cities which are already established. The honourable member would put a leasehold system around these already established areas. One cannot make a leasehold system stick under those circumstances unless one puts an embargo upon the resale of a leasehold property. If the honourable member looks at the statistics he will see that every residential property in Australia changes hands or ownership 7 times in the lifetime of that property. 
Yes. In the first instance a Labor government may give a great benefit and subsidy to the fellow who first obtains the leasehold title. This would be given in the form of a present from the government. But when demand is created and that fellow wants to sell, be sells according to the market value - and that market value does not take any recognition of the fact that there is a leasehold title or a freehold title. If there is a house there and someone wants it the government will not be able to do anything to stop the holder of the leasehold title from selling. It will have done nothing whatever to suppress the costs of housing to the people of Australia by the idea of leasehold title. Such a scheme just will not work. The people will wake up to the fact that if a leasehold scheme is introduced they will not cwn their own land. Therefore the honourable member for Reid had better change his tactics in regard to this matter. 
A Labor government would set up commissions in each State and one central commission in Canberra under the control of the Commonwealth government so that the Commonwealth will control all housing in Australia. This, of course, is something that the Labor Party has tried to do before and it is just plain blatant socialism. The sooner the people of Australia wake up to the fact that what the honourable member for Reid and members of the Labor Party are trying to do is to fool people into the idea that they will get cheap houses or land and concentrate and establish a central housing commission to own all the land in the future development of Australia, the better. Can we imagine anything so stupid or unrealistic? I can tell honourable members opposite that the people of Australia just will not fall for this kind of trick because this is not the sort of thing that the people want. The Opposition and the people of Australia should realise that this Government has done a tremendous amount for housing and the money which is being made available at present runs into quite prodigious figures. Another thing they must remember is that constitutionally the responsibility for housing rests with the States. Money for the purpose of housing can be handed out to the States. Money is being handed out at the present time. An amount of $982m for the State works and housing programme was approved by the recent Loan Council meeting. Of this amount $248. 5m has been made available in the form of non-repayable grants. If that is not a healthy situation, I do not know what is. In addition to that special grants are made. An amount of $2.75m for 30- odd years, which adds up - and the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who is at the table can correct me if I am wrong - to $4 15m or $425m has been made available by way of subsidy in relation to reduced rentals and so on. An additional SI. 25m has been granted to reduce rentals for needy families. 
Yes, the Labor Party opposed this when it came in. Money is now being made available to the States to deal with this single problem in housing - low rental accommodation for the low income group of people. If you play around with the other side of housing then you are just being so stupid that it does not matter. 
It is very desirable to have electricity wiring placed underground. But does the honourable member for Reid know what is involved in that proposition? Has he the faintest idea what is involved? I was the  Chairman  of the Sydney County Council and I went into this matter pretty thoroughly. It would not be possible to undertake such a task in any city in Australia because of the cost which would be involved under our taxation system. I would like to see it done and it can be done in certain of the new areas but it would be very costly. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition was designed on a completely socialist basis to try to indicate to the people that under a Labor government they will get cheap housing. This will not work. Honourable members opposite should learn what is involved in a system of leasehold land. I repeat that to make it work you would have to place a bar on everybody who obtained a leasehold title. It would mean that they would not be able to re-sell their homes. In other words, they would not be the legitimate owners of the property. It would continue to be owned by the Commonwealth of Australia. The people would be living in socialist homes. They would be directed to live in certain areas and to live in certain kinds of homes. Does the honourable member for Reid know that the quality of housing in Australia today is increasing sharply? Only 2 years ago the average home in Australia was 12.9 squares but it is now 13.5 squares. This trend is increasing the quality of housing tremendously. The Opposition's amendment is a stupid one and I hope that the Committee will reject it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)  - -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: In view of the repeated statements by the honourable member for Newcastle that the book value of the 6 DC3 aircraft purchased from Jetair was $100,000, could the Minister give the House any information as to what was the book value of these aircraft. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Presentation of Address-in-Reply 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. In view of his recent public statement that abortion on request was freely available at the Canberra Hospital can he inform the House how many abortions have taken place at the Hospital since this Government has taken office? 
We have just heard the kind of speech to which we have become accustomed from the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is also Leader of the House. The honourable member has called this a democracy. He spoke of freedom, free speech and the right to say one's piece. I came into the House tonight to say my piece on a most important subject, the Address-in-Reply. However, even though the time set aside for the debate had not expired - it was not 10.15 p.m. - I was gagged when I rose to speak. I understand this was done on the instructions of the Leader of the House. If that is not undemocratic I would like to know what is. After all, perhaps it would have been better for honourable members to have heard a few wise words from me than to witness the clowning of the Leader of the House. You know,  Mr Speaker,  that we get this sort of thing all the time. I wish the people of Australia could have heard tonight that somebody who had something important to say was gagged by this Government although we had to listen to 10 minutes of clowning by the honourable member for Grayndler. He said nothing. He was being personal in his remarks about some people and he tried to insult others. He calls this democracy. Well, I just do not understand it. 
I would have liked to say something in the debate on the Address-in-Reply because I suppose it is the most important AddressinReply debate since I have been in this place. I approach the Governor-General's Speech much more in sorrow than in anger because if honourable members refer to the opening  remarks of the Speech they will see that he talks about a mandate for change. He said that the Government wanted to achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society in the lifetime of this Parliament. In other words, within 3 years the whole structure of Australia and the society to which we have been accustomed is to be changed and, of course, this is a terrible thing. What do we have to change? I have not time in this debate to deal with all the matters 1 wish to raise but I want to refer to one important matter. What do we have to change? The Liberal Party of Australia and, I believe, the Australian Country Party stand for certain principles and they have stood by those principles in the last 23 years of this Parliament. The main principle is the freedom and rights of the individual which they consider to be superior to the rights of the state. The Labor Party has stood for the superiority of the state over the individual under a socialist system, and that is the difference between the Opposition and the Government. But there has been no fundamental change. A leopard does not change its spots. The Labor Party has not changed its principles. It still stands for a change of our society into a socialist state. There is no question about this and no-one will deny it. 
I have not time in this debate to deal with what has been done in the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government but the results of its policies have produced an era of the greatest development and prosperity this country has ever known. That has been done by this Parliament. Let us turn to the new look of the Labor Party. I say that it stands for the same thing now; it has not altered.  Mr Chifley  lost government because he wanted to nationalise and socialise everything. That was when the Liberals came to power.  Dr Evatt's  Party had the same new look idea that the Government has, except perhaps that it was flirting even more with communism than is the case today. The Calwell Party made excessive promises in the same way as the Whitlam Party is doing today, with the same conclusion - a socialist society. The Whitlam Party was not trusted by the people either. This time we had the great subterfuge. They softened on the socialist theme. Therefore they are trying to deceive the people about what can happen. 
The election campaign was, I suppose, the most lavish in Australia's history and the cost was astronomical. I would like to know where the money came from. I know that a lot of my friends who were supposed to have money received personal letters signed by  Mr Whitlam.  Such letters went out all over Australia by the millions. The unions, under the Hawke influence at. that time, were forced to pay. But was there any overseas money that helped the Labor Party? It is strange that several overseas trips were made at that time by the present Prime Minister and by  Mr Hawke,  the Vice-President of the Party. They went to Israel and to other countries which were very anxious to see a Labor Party Government in Australia. So I ask whether overseas money was involved in that election. 
Promises know no bounds with the Labor Party. It has promised social welfare schemes and improvements in housing, urban development and transport. No-one can deny that all the cranks, odd bods, drug addicts, homosexuals, abortionists,  pornographers, Women's Liberation supporters and all the demonstrators in the world were brought together in one unified force to get the Labor Party into power. Another significant thing was that on this occasion, as distinct from any other occasion in our history, very few communists stood for election. The communists themselves lay down and supported the Labor Party because it was essential for the Labor Party to get into office. It is true to say that the people were lulled into a false sense of security. If they had had the chance 24 hours later they would not have made the same decision. There is no question or doubt about that. The people were horrified when this Government came to power. In the first week after the elections they were horrified. In that first week we had only 2 men controlling this country. That was the first taste of possible dictatorship in this country. Those 2 men handled 26 or 27 portfolios. 
With unseemly haste the Government insulted our greatest friends and allies, the United States of America. Three Ministers joined the left wing Labor supporters and the communists in all the vile epithets they could think of, and the Prime Minister said nothing. He did not make one remark. All our British tradition was trampled underfoot by the Prime Minister. Royalty was given a slap in the face. Honourable members know what happened about the Queen's Honours and about the Prime Minister's refusal to accept the Privy Council appointment. Even the poor old Bentley car and its flag were ignored. But quick as a flash we embraced China. Hanoi and East Germany. Our close friend, Taiwan, was unceremoniously ejected within a matter of hours. One had only to be a good communist or a follower to get a job with the Labor Party. That has happened all over the place. We do not seem to realise it, but now we are actually living in Australia under a communist umbrella. We have deserted all our friends. The Government's intention is quite clear. The Prime Minister sees himself as a man of great destiny, and God help the state if he stays there long. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Was he correctly reported from Washington on 29th March as expressing confidence in the American dollar? Did he say that he was reasonably assured that the dollar would not fall any further? Is he aware that the day before he made his statement in Washington, the Minister for Minerals and Energy stated in this place that it was common knowledge that the American dollar was on the downgrade, and that he repeated this statement only yesterday? Was the Minister for Minerals and Energy referring to the Treasurer when he said: 'There are none so blind as those who will not see'? Who is right in this conflict of opinion in the Ministry? 
The Opposition does not propose to stand in the way of the provision of funds to the States and therefore it will not oppose the Bill. But we feel that there are many matters of importance that should be mentioned. This Bill will provide loans to the States to the value of $6,550,000 at an interest rate of 4 per cent over a period of 53 years, payable annually. The States must build or commence to build, buy or renovate by the 1st July this year. Properties acquired or built in this way will be available for leasing only and will be allocated only to approved people who are certified by the State concerned to be in need. A further provision of the Bill is that the program must not interfere with other State expenditure for housing. I think these are the principal features of the Bill. 
The Bill provides for a short term, crash program. The States are to be allowed only a short period of  2i  months to complete the program, and I do not know how they are going to do it. The money provided under this legislation will not mean very much to each State. I have worked out that, the loans will allow the building of about 332 to 350 homes. I have calculated that on a State basis the approximate number of homes provided will be as follows: New South Wales 175, Victoria 75, Queensland 19, South Australia 26, Western Australia 21 and Tasmania 16. So this is not a big program. 
I must say that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  is a most enthusiastic Minister and I applaud him for that enthusiasm. But I warn him that he should not put his little hot fingers too rauch into the State pies because he is likely to get them burnt if he carries  On in  the present way. I look upon this measure more as a propaganda stunt than of real value to deal with the problem of housing. As I see it there are several real dangers. In the first place the time factor makes it virtually impossible for any State to meet the requirements. This part of the legislation creates a sort of panic operation to build or buy, and this is not a very appropriate time to be doing either. Also, the inclusion of the interest rate at 4 per cent creates a precedent, and I do not know how the Minister arrived at this figure. It is a subsidy to the States which is difficult to maintain in other legislation. If that were done, the amount of costs could be prodigious. It is a further spur to inflation and I believe it has the tendency to increase the cost of construction and/ or the cost of purchase. 
It may be of interest to the Minister to know - I say this authoritatively - that the real estate agents in Australia today are having the greatest picnic they have ever had. There are more buyers than there is property to sell. As a result, prices are going up. This is real inflation. Today prices are reaching figures that have been unheard of. Recently a very good block of land at Northbridge in Sydney was sold for the sum of $134,000. 
People are realising that we are running into a period of inflation. Even though there may be a collapse in real estate at a later date - that is on the cards - they realise that their money is safer in real estate than in any other kind of investment. Therefore, all over Australia money is being put into real estate. I believe that, unfortunately, this Bill will have the effect of interfering with and jeopardising the current State programs. I like the Minister and I think that he is a great enthusiast but he. has a mania for government ownership and control of houses. 
That is right,  1  do not think he would deny it. He is a dedicated socialist to the nth degree and all his thinking and policy is directed to that end. He wants to build bigger and better housing commissions in each State, all controlled from Canberra. That is his idea. He does not really believe in home ownership.  1  have spoken about this for many years and have charged him with  it.  Now he is actually putting it into practice. He does not believe in the encouragement of little capitalists. In  other  words, he is  a true  disciple of  Mr Dedman  who made  the  famous remark that we do not want to build  a  nation of little capitalists.  1  suspect that, if the Minister can do it in a subtle fashion,  he  will destroy the building society movement in Australia. People are not aware  of  this yet,  but  it is coming. A statement was made today about credit unions. That statement will  be  debated later. I would like to say something about credit unions later. The Minister is already cutting down to  20  per cent the  30  per cent  for  home ownership that has come from government funds. His idea is to cut it down progressively further. He is creating a panic situation. He says there is a crisis in housing.  1 do  not know whether he believes  that  or not. Apparently  he  does because he has said it a dozen times. His idea of a crisis in housing is based on the fact that there are about  93,000  applicants for homes from housing commissions. That is a complete and absolute fallacy, but the Minister does not seem to be aware of  it.  As  1  have said here before, there is no physical shortage of housing in Australia today to accommodate the population. As a matter of fact, statistically there is one house for every  3.3  people in Australia. It is interesting to note that in the last one year and  9  months - 1 took these figures out only the other day - one house was built for every  1.4  increase in population. This is not a housing crisis at all. I agree with the Minister that there is a social problem; there is not a housing problem. The social problem is that the lower income earners and the indigent people of Australia cannot pay the economic rent, and this creates a problem. It is a self-inflicted wound. I do not have time to deal with this in detail tonight, but this problem has been caused by government controls and interference in the past. 
Let us look at this question of applicants for housing commission homes. Most of these people are already living in a home somewhere but they can make out quite a good case of need, on various grounds. Some are perhaps unable to meet the economic rent and others are occupying places where owners want to come into their own homes and the tenants cannot find a comparable place to rent at a rent they can afford. Families grow up and cannot be accommodated. Then there are homes that are unsuitable because of physical features and disabilities and the situation in relation to the place of work. There are quite a lot of these things that create a need so that the person in such a home wants to make an application to the housing commission for a home. These constitute the  93,000  applicants. It is very difficult to prove these things but if honourable members go into the details of them they will find that what I am saying is perfectly true. 
No doubt everyone who can make out a case wants a subsidised rent from the housing commission. Once a person moves into a housing commission home, no matter how his financial position may improve, neither the Federal government nor any State government would put him out of that home to make room for somebody who could not afford to pay rent elsewhere. This is quite wrong according to the principle of subsidised rent. It is no exaggeration to say that there are tens of thousands of people in homes owned by the State housing commissions who could afford to pay an economic rent. This is a maladjustment of the occupation of homes. 
Let us have a look at these housing commissions. I believe that their functions should be limited. This is not only a criticism of the present Commonwealth Labor Government because it has a different idea altogether about government ownership, but it is also a criticism of some State Liberal governments because, in my opinion, they have the wrong idea. I believe that the functions of housing commissions should be limited to building homes for low income earners in the first place because private enterprise cannot compete on that basis, and to act for governments in the slum clearance of the various cities which is necessary. They should encourage tenants to become owners of their properties. When the governments sell housing commission homes they should sell on a value basis and not on a subsidised cost basis which, in my opinion, is utterly wrong. In other words, they should not be set up in competition with enterprise builders because this creates huge areas of housing with a sameness of construction. That is not a good thing. In such cases the individuality of a home is lost. After all is said and done, a home is perhaps a once in a lifetime thing and all a person's love and affection is in that home. A person should be able to express his individuality in his home. I say that the States are to blame very largely for the way this situation has developed. They have a vested interest in building big apartments. This is now aided and abetted with government control centralised in Canberra. That is something that I do not like. There is a grave danger, as I see it, with all this enthusiasm of the Minister, of the Government over-stimulating the building industry. Already there is available to the industry, because of the action of the previous Government, a great amount of money that was poured in last year. Apart from the normal operations of Government spending, last year State works and housing programs received $9 82m. I presume that the provision of this amount is continuing under the new Government. Of that sum $24.5m was in the form of non-repayable grants to the States. In addition, a special cumulative grant of $2.75m was made. This amount is to be made available each year for 30 years and is to be used for interest and rental subsidies. 
Over a period of 34 years these cumulative grants will amount to $412.5m. In addition $ 1.25m per annum has been provided to enable needy families to enjoy reduced rentals. These grants are now in operation. Over and above the amount provided by the previous Government there are special grants which are for age pensioners' homes and which are being spent all over Australia. There is also provision for other schemes for homes for the aged which are subsidised by the Federal Gov ernment. In addition, of course, provision 'g made for homes for servicemen. However, I shall not deal with that subject tonight because it is the subject of a special Bill. The building industry is fully extended at present. Anybody who knows anything about the building industry knows that. If one wants a bricklayer today, one has to beg him and pay an enormous amount. The result is that housing prices are going up and up. Inflation in this area is very difficult to control. 
It is interesting to note that a Treasury paper published recently stated that private building approvals in January 1973 were 46 per cent higher than in January 1972. This indicates quite clearly what is happening in the building trade. Whilst we do not want to stand in the way of the States being given this little extra money for the good purpose of providing rental homes, if this amount is linked with the provision made for other housing schemes, including the war service homes scheme that we have yet to discuss, and the scheme about which the Minister for Housing has been having troubles with the States because he does not support home ownership, it will be found that far too much money is being pumped into the building industry with the result that the Government is creating an inflationary trend which it will not be able to control. This is not good for the price structure, the stability of our economy or for anything else. I would like to say much more on this subject, but because of the special circumstances tonight I shall leave it at that. But I warn the Minister for Housing, who is at the table, to be careful of letting his enthusiasm run away with him to a point where he does more injury than good to the people of Australia in the housing field. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: In the Minister's announced scheme for a socialised health service, which he assures us can be financed on a taxation levy of  1.35  per cent of taxable income, is it proposed that doctors will render their accounts direct to the Government? Was a similar scheme introduced in Canada? Has the Minister seen the comment of  Dr Maurice  Le Clair,  Deputy  Minister of Health in Canada, in which he said: 'We have come to the inescapable conclusion that we have the wrong system'? 
This Bill which has been clearly explained by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown)  - he gave a small recitation of its provisions - I believe represents a much more fundamental change than most people would realise. It changes the name of the War Service Homes Act, which has stood since 1919, to the Defence Service Homes Act. It is not only in the name that the fundamental change takes place but also in the spirit of the Act. The War Service Homes Act was introduced after the First World War. It was a repatriation measure for men who had served overseas. Those were the men who were entitled to the benefit. In that spirit, of course, it had a different connotation from what it has now, because the proposed Act, the Defence Service Homes Act, the Bill which we are discussing, will bring in all regular servicemen who have served for 3 years. This is a matter that is being dealt with by amendment. It changes the whole spirit of 'the Act as we have known it. 1 do not think it would have been impossible for the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  to deal with the housing of servicemen as a separate matter from the spirit and intention of the original War Service Homes Act. 
The Opposition does not object to the Bill. We are prepared to go along with the provision of assistance to servicemen. Of course there are certain amendments which have been moved by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and which will be dealt with by other speakers. I may have time to mention some myself. The Bill, as has been mentioned, increases the maximum loan from $9,000 to $12,000, which I think is very appropriate because of the inflation that affects this country. It provides for certain unmarried females to qualify. We do not disagree with that, because we want to extend that benefit to males as well as females. The Bill brings in representatives of certain welfare organisations, and I think that is quite proper too. We have no objection to those aspects of the Bill, but we feel that it was not necessary to change the whole principle of what has been known as the War Service Homes Act. 
This Act, of course, is perhaps one of the great achievements in the history of this country. After the 1914-18 War it was introduced, as I have said, as a repatriation measure, and only those who had served in a theatre of war were eligible for benefits under it. It carries a substantial subsidy on interest. The interest rate is now 3) per cent, which virtually carries a subsidy of 31 per cent. There is no means test associated with this measure. It is not a question of assisting people in need. The term of a loan under this measure is 45 years, and 50 years for widows. That is all right too. A person must not own another home, and he can buy or he can build. 
The record over the years is very interesting. From 1919 to 1949, that is, in a period of 30 years 63,000 homes were financed at a cost of $105m. From the time the Liberal Government took over in 1949 to 1971, for which period statistical figures are accurately recorded - a period of 22 years - 261,217 homes were financed for ex-servicemen at a cost of $l,337m. Since then the amount has increased, and I understand that now about 330,000 homes have been financed since 1949. This is an achivement that the previous Liberal Government can be proud of and no one can take this record from us. Certain matters of concern have always existed and still exist in relation to war service homes, particularly on the question of the freedom of the title. Some people do not seem to realise that approval is needed to borrow on a second mortgage or to get a war service home. The loan cannot be transferred to another security; it is applied only to the security on which it was borrowed. 
The reasons behind this Bill have been announced by the Minister, and they are not denied. When the Labor Government came to power it decided that it would dispense with the National Service Act, and it will always maintain that it can get the required recruits into the regular Army on a volunteer basis, and so it has resorted to this type of action to enable it to get the recruits. This was the idea it had to get the troops. Indeed, one is not exaggerating when one says that this is a form of bribery to get troops into the Services. A person has to serve for only 3 years in any capacity, whether it be cook or a combatant, to be eligible. All the Australian Labor Party wants in the Services is the numbers. It wants the numbers to justify its scrapping of the National Service Act. It is not the quality of the Services about which it is thinking; it is simply a question of numbers to justify the claim it has made. We know that the Labor Party's policy on defence has changed considerably. No longer does it believe in defending Australia outside the shores of Australia. It believes that all the preparation for defence should be for the defence of Australia within the bounds of Australia, and it disdains to give any special recognition for service outside the shores of Australia. What effect will this have? I have thought of this. I believe in the first place that it will bring some very severe heartburnings to many of the returned services leagues and clubs throughout Australia and to many of the ex-servicemen who have served overseas. I believe that it is a form of destruction of a very old tradition, and in this respect I do not like it. But obviously the Labor Party is hellbent on crushing under heel every form of tradition that has flowed down through the years in this country. I have not time to deal with those matters. 
No, it is not. This Bil! will reduce the desire to serve one's country to a mercenary objective of personal gain, because it means a saving in interest of about $360 per annum for a period of 45 years for a person who has served for 3 years at home. This means a bonus of approximately $16,000, to be taken up at any time, I remind the House, because people do not go into the Service and make up their minds to buy a home at once. So posterity will hand this $16,000 bonus to each man who serves for 3 years in one of the Services. No one has calculated, and the Minister has made no effort to tell us, how much the cost of this proposal will be to the taxpayer of Australia. No one has ever suggested what it will mean in the future, but it must be a prodigious cost. As one could well imagine, people will not use their loan entitlement at once but it will flow down through the years as people enlist for 3 years, go out of the Services and another lot enlist. 
I agree - I do not want any misunderstanding about this - that servicemen should be well housed while they are in the Services. A great deal is now being done in this field and more can be done. Special funds are made available through the State housing commissions from money provided by the Commonwealth to build homes for servicemen. From time to time under special acquisition programs a great number of homes have been acquired for servicemen. I initiated these schemes myself. This program will have to go on as well. Until a serviceman leaves the Service it is very difficult for him to make up his mind as to where he wants his permanent home. So he does not actually use this benefit, in the average case, until well after he leaves the Service. Very little thought has been given to the practical application of this measure as an inducement to a man or woman to join the Services, lt could be very deceptive. One wonders what the final effect of this Bill will be. 
Of course, everyone who joins the Services would like to avail himself of a loan at  3$  per cent to acquire a home. Unless major amendments are made to the principal Act they will find many difficulties in their way. The Act favours the man with money, and in the first instance the needy have very little hope of receiving any benefit from it. There are many inhibitions in relation to this matter. There is no means test. It does not matter whether a man is wealthy, as long as he enlists for 3 years service. A borrower must show an ability to meet bis payments. He must not own another home. He could have had a home and sold it. If he does not own another home he becomes eligible. He may buy or build subject to approval, but the mortgage loan makes him a tenant of the Director of the Defence Service Homes. He does not really own the home; he becomes a tenant. He cannot let without approval and he cannot sell or transfer the loan to another home. He cannot borrow twice except under special circumstances to be approved by the Director. 
I understand that in its initial stages the Act provided for the discharge of an existing mortgage, but this is rarely approved. It has not been approved for many years. This could be looked at. 1 think that the honourable member for Herbert has something in mind in relation to this. Totally and Permanently Incapacitated ex-servicemen particularly should be given the right under this Bill to discharge a mortgage. A borrower must not enter into a contract to buy or build without the specific approval of the Director. The most difficult problem is that, whilst the Bill provides for a 5 per cent deposit to be acceptable, a valid second mortgage cannot be registered against the title which would enable a second mortgagee to exercise a power of sale against the security in the event of default. This cannot be done unless amendments are made to the Act. That is why the amendment has been suggested by the honourable member for Herbert. 
This Bill rules out the provision of second mortgage money by banks or permanent building societies to bridge the deposit gap, which makes things very difficult. Most homes in the capital cities today exceed $20,000 in cost. A serviceman would need $8,000 deposit. Very few of them have this. Of course, the wealthy can get it, but it is difficult for other men to get the extra money for their homes because there is no limit on the price of a home. A man can enlist for 3 years. He can go and buy a home worth $100,000 and borrow $12,000 for 45 years of whatever the term is. He can get a bonus of $16,000 at a rate of interest of 3f per cent. He does not have to worry about it at all. I sometimes wonder whether people realise that this is what happens. Is this Bit providing assistance to the housing program or to society? I brand it in the first place as a bribe for enlistment to fill the Services. There are tens of thousands of eligible ex-servicemen in Australia from the 1914-1918 and 1939- 1945 Wars and subsequent wars who have nol yet availed themselves of loans under the old Act. This is due, mostly to the restraints contained in the Act and its application which I have mentioned in relation to the eligibility for owning a home and so forth. 
The amendments that have been proposed are sensible amendments which are designed to help the Government in the proposal before the House. I will not go into detail about them at present. The amendments have been circulated. They deal with increasing the effective period of service from 3 years to 6 years, which I think would be a great improvement. They provide for concessions to be granted to males as well as females and they deal with amendments to the principal Act to enable second mortgages to be available. I warn the Minister that one cannot really be clear about this. The Bill could open the floodgates of availability of money for housing that would have a very serious inflationary effect on the cost of housing throughout Australia. A benefit may be achieved on one side and there may be a destructive element on the other side. Nothing that the Minister has said has given us any idea of the probable cost of this proposal to the people of Australia. One thing is certain: This scheme will go down through the generations; it will never terminate; it will go on and on, and it will be a permanent liability to the taxpayers of Australia. At the same time it would be very good to hand out this benefit to servicemen who are justified in receiving it because they have enlisted to serve this country. I hope that this scheme will succeed, but I do not think that very serious thought has been given to the details of how the Act will operate. 
 The Cities Commission Bill was introduced principally, as we all know, for the purpose of changing the name of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority which was established by the previous Government to deal with the growth of our cities and with decentralisation. In my opinion the name given to the Authority was a very proper one. This Bill proposes to substitute the name 'Cities Commission' for the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. I do not think that the name Cities Commission' properly describes what we are trying to do, and therefore I am very suspicious about the change of name. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  said in his speech when introducing this Bill that he did not want a conflict with his new Department, the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I do not think that that is the whole story. It is evident to me that the Australian Labor Party is playing, from a political point of view, to the populations of the big cities. What matters is the strength of the votes. Therefore it has decided to call this body the Cities Commission and has dropped the national approach to the question. The Australian Labor Party Government has dropped also the idea of rural and regional development. That idea has been abandoned, as was stated this morning by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  Indeed I think that the Government is playing a political game to gain political control of local government because right throughout its theme it can be seen that the Government is playing up to direct negotiation and direct dealing with local government. The Government is alienating it from its function which now is under the control of the various States. People should be suspicious of the intention that lies behind this Bill. Undoubtedly the Government is aiming for centralised control, not only in this matter but also in almost everything else. This Bill proposes the appointment of a full time  chairman  and 4 part time commissioners one of whom is to be the Secretary of the Minister's Department. This will ensure a rigid control of the functions of the Commission. The function of the other 3 part time commissioners is stated to be to look after the interests of the States. This is only a sop to federalism. I do not think there is any intention of introducing true federalism through the functioning of this legislation. 
It is proposed that there will be an advisory committee to the Commission. There is an amendment dealing with this aspect as, indeed, there is an amendment concerning the question of the title. I will support that latter amendment. Undoubtedly the Commission is intended to control city development from 
Canberra, not from the States as suggested by the Minister. As I said, this is only a sop to federalism. Money, of course, is the major power and there is no doubt that with the power of money vested in the Commonwealth the States will be completely powerless and impotent to exercise any authority whatever. 1 believe this is a major move to take over more and more of the functions of the States. Running through this Bill is the suggestion of land control. I have no doubt that the Minister envisages Commonwealth land control. This theme runs through all Government policy. Additionally, of course, there is the idea of control of the transport systems and the main roads systems of Australia. We have heard many expressions concerning sewerage systems. I believe we will hear more of this later and that there will be direct contact between the Federal Government and local government, thus by-passing the States on this major matter. At present the House has before it the question of control being exercised over gas through the proposed pipeline. The object is to obtain complete control, centralised in Canberra, over the distribution of gas throughout Australia. The Commonwealth seeks to control housing and housing land development. Of course, we are not dealing with that matter now but the theme of Commonwealth control runs through the whole picture. 
For years the Minister has made it plain that he intends to use Commonwealth resources to buy up land. I think it was the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  a former Prime Minister, who dealt with this aspect. If the Commonwealth cannot buy the land it will resume it, but the resumption laws of the Commonwealth are different from the resumption laws of the States. In most States the resumption laws give the States more liberty with respect to land values. I was responsible for the Commonwealth's resumption laws when many years ago, by an amendment, it was provided that the Commonwealth must pay the market value of land which is resumed, and must comply with other conditions. 
Not the ValuerGeneral's value; it is the market value. The Valuer-General's valuation can be contested at any time on a resumption and it is the market value which prevails. Indeed the Commonwealth must have a certain purpose for the land and if the Commonwealth does not use it for that purpose within a prescribed period the original owner from whom the land was resumed must be given the right to purchase it back from the Commonwealth. In other words the resumption laws of the Commonwealth are more restrictive than the resumption laws of the States, so it is proposed to use the States to acquire land around the various cities. It is proposed - we have had this stated to us quite plainly - that the Government will buy up all the land around all the cities in Australia, develop it, and then sell it on a leasehold basis. The Minister has stated that this will control land prices. As one experienced in this sort of thing, I tell him that the very fact that land is resumed and sold on a leasehold basis and then improvements are made to it after development will have no effect whatever on prices. But he has in his head the idea that it will. This is one of the troubles: So few people on the Government side of the House have any practical understanding of what happens in dealings with land. Very few honourable members opposite know anything about it. The Minister has read a lot and has an academic idea, but he does not know the practical implications of these things. 
We know that in the first place the cost ol such a scheme to the taxpayers would be astronomical. The effect will be, once the land is developed, that the original purchaser of the lease will be given a very great gratuity. It is a statistical fact known to people engaged in real estate activities that throughout Australia the ownership of improved property whether leasehold or freehold, changes hands at least 7 times during the lifetime of that property. The person who first leases the property receives a gratuity; he gets the property at a very low cost. But, unless the Federal Government proposes to exercise a control over the right of people to sell their property, immediately it is resold the market value will prevail and every subsequent sale will be made at the market value, not at the inhibited or controlled value at which the property was first acquired and leased. So really, in the end, the scheme of itself has no effect whatever upon land prices, unless special legislation is introduced as to the use and disposal of the land. 
I mention these things to the Minister for him to look at them, because he has a com plete misunderstanding of the effect that his proposals will have. I have seen the situation occur over and over again. As a matter of fact, it can be seen in Canberra. The old Cooper leasehold system in Sydney, which operated for 99 years, had no effect on the price of land. The leasehold system has an effect in that a person does not own the whole of the land. Once the improvements are on the land, it finds its market value. Then, the market value is in no way inhibited by the fact that the land is leasehold or freehold, except that the leasehold title has a detrimental effect on improvements to the property and the keeping up to date of those improvements. 
Quite a lot of the land in Australia has been sold on a leasehold basis. The selling of land on a leasehold basis in Canberra has not affected the price structure. The Government is interfering not only with the purchase of land around the cities but also with the freeways, highways and feeder roads. Undoubtedly, they will all be controlled from the central control office in Canberra. This also applies to railways. We hear arguments about this at the present time. Of course, in housing the Government wants bigger and better State housing commissions with the growth of a rental community. But I will not deal with that now. 
In my opinion this Commission, under the control of the Australian Labor Party, will be turned into a colossus of socialist enterprise and control. This is what I fear. There is no doubt that we want growth cities; this is true. A start is to be made on growth cities in the Albury-Wodonga area. But having 50 years experience in these matters, I warn the Minister for Urban and Regional Development that he has no more chance of developing a growth city with a population of 300,000 within the time schedule that he has in mind than he has of flying in the air. This just cannot be done. The same thing applies if the Government attempts such a project in other ways. There is an old adage that you can take a horse to water but you cannot make it drink. People will go where people want to go unless they are offered encouragement to go to a certain place, and of course the cost of providing such encouragement, should the Government force development in an area, would be completely prohibitive to the taxpayers of Australia. 
I do not know where the idea of a Cities Commission fits in with the Labor Party's idea of reducing the immigration intake and its advocacy of a zero population growth, limiting families to 2 children, as has been stated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on various occasions How do we build a country in that way and how will development survive? Of course, there should be an authority responsible for planned development. There is need for orderly national development. There is no doubt that there should be complete collaboration between the States and the Commonwealth in this development so that the resources of the Commonwealth are used in such a way as to satisfy priorities properly, that is to say, by agreement between the States and the Commonwealth our national resources should be applied on the basis of first things first where national development is involved, and we need planning to do that. Time does not permit me to go far into that side of the question, but an authority with those aims is what I would envisage. 
We must not have complete centralised power in Canberra. We must have a proper federal system of control, that is, a system under which all the States have their rights in an authority and the matter is dealt with on a purely federal and national basis. Instead of envisaging the application of Commonwealth money to do everything, we should be thinking of an authority working on the basis of providing encouragement and incentives for development by private investment. In my opinion it is only in this way that this country can become great and it is only by laying down the guidelines for the assistance that can be given by the various governments of Australia that we can encourage decentralisation, which is so sadly needed. But to think that we can bring about decentralisation simply by altering the name of the authority which had decentralisation as one of its aims and by concentrating on the cities as the major issue is to believe in something that will not work. The people will wake up to the fact that the Government is developing a colossal socialist enterprise which will have its control centralised in Canberra and which will not bring about the kind of things about which the Government is talking. 
This country sadly needs a proper system of decentralisation. As I say, we cannot force it unless we lay down the encouragement for people to disperse. I know that there is a need to overcome the urban sprawl in the larger cities. One could say much about that. This problem is not an easy one to solve, and it will not be cured if the Government of this country tries to bypass the States, control the States and by subterfuge use local government authorities while all the time having a certain political idea in its mind. This will not achieve the purpose that the previous Government had in mind when it set up the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. 
 It is quite unusual for me to follow immediately an Opposition  speaker  in a debate on a Bill as vital as the Bill we are discussing. It seems that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has lost the support of his Party colleagues. It is very significant that there are no further speakers from the ranks of Government supporters. Perhaps they think that the matter is unimportant. Perhaps they do not like to continue to support the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Perhaps they do not like him. In any event, they have failed to provide a  speaker  to follow the last  speaker  from the Opposition side. One of the most significant points in considering this Bill relates to the opening words of the Minister for Minerals and Energy when he introduced the Bill. They are worth repeating and emphasising. He said: 
The Governor-General's Speech foreshadowed that, in pursuit of its policy for maximising Australian ownership, control, use and development of Australian resources, the Government would introduce legislation to establish a pipeline authority. 
That states the Government's proposal quite simply. It plans to maximise government ownership of the Authority. There is no doubt in my mind that this is a major move by the Government to gain control of a vital base of the country's development. I do not think anyone would challenge that the distribution of oil, petroleum, gas and so forth is a vital base for the future development of Australia. It is also significant that the decision to set up the Authority was made only after private enterprise, to meet the circumstances that had arisen after the discovery of gas in this country, had already made arrangements for the piping of the gas from the field to the city of Sydney. Honourable members will know that natural gas was first discovered in Bass Strait. Some difficulties then arose in relation to supplying Sydney from Bass Strait. 
An alternative scheme to supply the major city of Australia was arranged by the Australian Gas Light Co. The scheme was completed and I understand that contracts had already been entered into. Arrangements have certainly been made and a considerable amount of money has been spent. I believe that the Minister has given an undertaking that no loss will be sustained because of that arrangement, but the fact is that private industry had arranged to provide gas to the great city of Sydney before the Government had made up its mind to establish an Authority. There is no excuse. It was an urgent matter. I understand that the Minister has given an undertaking that there will be no loss of time, but that has still to be proved. 
What is the Bill all about? It is a simple Bill, as the Minister has said. Its purpose is to provide a network of pipelines all over Australia. Authority is required for that objective. The pipelines are to carry natural gas, petroleum and other hydrocarbons to the places where they are required. A program has been laid out, but this is something that goes on under an authority of this kind in perpetuity wherever gas and fuel become available and for as long as they are required in Australia. The Authority has the significance of being a complete monopoly for the purpose. It will be very good for the development of Australia, providing that it does not interfere with the kind of society that we want to build in Australia. Power is to be granted to buy and sell the commodities that the pipeline will carry. 
It should be mentioned that coal is involved under the definition of 'petroleum'. This bears some significance to the power that is taken to buy and sell the commodities defined in the Bill. The power to buy and sell gives the measure greater significance. 
The Authority is to be controlled by a part time  chairman  and a full time executive member. There are also to be 3 other members. Of those 3, one is to be a trade union representative and one is to be the secretary of the Department of Minerals and Energy. Yesterday I spoke on a Bill which included the same kind of idea. In that instance the Bill provided for the Secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development to become the major part of the authority or commission that is to be set up. This move gives absolute political control of the commission or authority that is set up. We do not know who the  chairman  will be, but one can guess that whoever he and the other member are they will be very socialist minded. 
The importance of the Bill is of such a character that the people of Australia must be warned of the significance that is to flow to their way of life from it. In its present form, the authority could, unless the Bill is amended - and amendments are proposed by the Opposition - hold to ransom all private industry development in Australia, if it so desired. It will be only one of a long line of centralised authorities that exercise control of this kind. I do not have time to deal with them all but there are authorities and commissions almost of every kind that honourable members could imagine. It is important to realise that most of them are operating in basic matters fundamental to the development of Australia. These include such matters as were discussed yesterday during the debate on the Cities Commission Bill and such matters as housing, urban development and mining, prospecting and exploration for minerals, oils, gas and so on in Australia. These sorts of controls have been forecast by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. There is no doubt that this Government is hell bent on the socialisation of industry, distribution and exchange which it has fostered and which has been part of the Labor Party's policy for as long as we can remember. This is just a part of its scheme. 
On the other hand, the Liberal Party is not opposed to an authority as such to establish a network of pipelines purely as a carrier of the essential means of development in this country. The only objection that we voice by our amendment is the power given to the authority to control production and distribution of the commodities carried by the pipeline. That point should be made plain to the people and it has been made plain in the amendment which we have moved. But the proposed authority is not the same as the Snowy Mountains Authority, as some honourable members opposite have claimed. The Snowy Mountains scheme was a magnificant scheme which was started originally by a Labor government. But that government did not set up the scheme, as honourable members opposite claim. The Snowy Mountains scheme really was put into effect by a Liberal government and it was a magnificent scheme. But the purpose of that scheme was to supply water and bulk power. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  referred to the Sydney County Council. I was  Chairman  of that organisation for many years and I was a member of it for 21 years, so I know what it is about. There can be no comparison between that body and the authority proposed under this Bill. The Sydney County Council is purely and simply a local governing body. It is elected by the people in the same way as members are elected to this Parliament. It is a democratic organisation which operates under a very restricted charter. 
It buys electricity in bulk from the Electricity Authority of New South Wales and that electricity is distributed to the people under a very restricted charter of control by the elected representatives of the people. So, this body cannot be compared to the organisation proposed by this Bill. 
In my opinion, the States should be consulted in relation to matters of this kind. Indeed, I go further and say that they should be represented on the Authority. There is no doubt that the proposed network of pipelines will be vitally important to the development of the States because it will travel through the  5 States  throughout Australia. It is also vital to the orderly national development of our country. This point should be emphasised. The building of the pipeline should be planned and gradual. I hope that the Government does not spend the entire thousands of millions of dollars that the pipeline will cost at once because the economy just could not take it. There should be a proper consideration of the priorities of development that are required in Australia; otherwise great amounts of money will be lost. No feasibility study has been undertaken as to where the pipelines will be built having regard to the priorities necessary in order to develop Australia. We have no information on this point and in my opinion this is an important ingredient in the way the pipelines will finally be built. They should be built according to a proper plan. 
However, the great concern as I see it will be the loss of encouragement to private industry which will occur. I refer to the producers of the fuel itself and the users at the end of the line, where the gas is used for production purposes and the encouragement of industry. Of course, most important are the people themselves. They should be able to receive the benefit of an efficient supply of fuel without government control that could impose upon them the restrictions which are inevitable in a socialist society. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Why is he, prompted by his Treasurer, considering restraining the operations of the building society movement in Australia? Is he aware that building societies are nonprofit co-operative organisations rigidly controlled by the States and are one of the major means of people on low incomes owning their own homes? Is this proposed interference with building societies further evidence of the Government's desire to build up a renting community and to discourage little capitalists? 
Because of the shortage of time I shall not touch upon the matters mentioned by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  Apparently his argument relates to Victoria and Victoria alone. This Bill, as we all know, deals with housing funds for the States. It is before us in the form of an agreement. We are being asked to approve of the agreement when it has not been agreed to by any State in Australia. Indeed, unless certain amendments are made to it, I do not believe that the States will agree to the agreement in this Bill which we are being asked to pass this afternoon. This is a peculiar way of going about this matter. 
Money is to be provided by the Commonwealth Government for 2 particular purposes. The period of the proposed agreement is 5 years and the term of the loan is 53 years. Firstly, in the main it is to provide for homes for rent. The total amount of money to be provided is divided into 2 parts. The second part, 30 per cent of the money which is to be provided, is for building societies and so forth. That is a separate thing. But the first 70  pes  cent of the money, on which the interest is to be  4  per cent while on the other  30  per cent it is to be  4i  per cent, is to be used mainly for the provision of homes for rent. 
I know the circumstances very well, so I must cut my speech short. I take exception to the strict conditions that are being imposed on the States by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson).  Clause  10 (2.)  states that the Minister shall decide - the whole agreement is on this basis - after consultation with the States, questions relating to how many homes they want or what the conditions are to be. Finally the Minister shall decide the amount for each State to use and for which purposes, either rental or home ownership, they are to use it. There is a very strict means test, as we know, on these conditions. 
The most objectionable clause is clause  19.  It strictly prohibits the sale of houses which are built by commissions throughout Australia to  30  per cent of the houses built, except in Tasmania, which has been permitted to sell, firstly,  50  per cent, then  40  per cent and thereafter  30  per cent, but that is because of a special condition. The same means test applies as to homes for rental. The only difference in this legislation is that no means test is to be imposed upon houses sold to the Director of Defence Service Homes under the scheme that has been just set up. Sales are to be under contract, that is, no title passes. In that respect, of course, I suppose ad valorem duty is saved to some extent until title is taken. The sale price is to be half of the total cost of the house plus half of the market value. 
Certain restrictions are imposed. A buyer cannot resell for  5  years, and then he must give the first offer to the authority, or to the Commonwealth. Rentals must be reviewed every year, and apparently no big housing commission estates are to be developed because the Bill provides that the houses to be built under this measure must be intermingled with private homes. Whilst I agree that it is not good to have sameness in everything, this feature could impose an extremely heavy additional cost upon the States. The second part of the program, as I have said, is to provide home ownership through the home builders' account. The money paid into this account will be lent through a terminating building society or other lending authorities approved by the Federal Minister. An approved lending authority could include unions or it could include  - 1  am suspicious of this - Bob Hawke's announced Australian Council of Trade Unions building scheme; it could come into that category. Again a means test will apply to this money. It is slightly higher than the other one. Not less than  20  per cent nor more than  30  per cent of the money will be paid into the home builders' account. The interest charged on loans from this account will be  5i  per cent. 
This legislation is very restrictive, as I have said, in its effect on the State. In all other legislation this Government has brought in in the fields of health, education, new cities, urban development, local government grants, gas and oil distribution, mining exploration and off-shore rights, the central control has been vested in Canberra. When will the people wake up to what is happening in this country? The State governments are going as fast as this Government can get them out of existence, and local and regional areas are to be puppets of a central government. The Senate will go, and if I am any judge at all, we are aiming directly for a republic in this country or, if not, a dictatorship. So I think it is about time the people woke up to what is going on, because this Bill is only some little evidence of the centralised control that is being exerted by this Government. 
Let us understand the implications of this Bill. Under the Constitution housing is a matter for the State governments. In all the  23  years that the Liberal and Country parties were in government they made provision for cheap money for housing. They had a marvellous record in relation to housing for those in the low income groups, but never at any time did the previous Government dictate to the States how they spent their money. We have always encouraged home ownership as being the basis upon which this nation would be built, but each State made its own regulations as to the way it wished to conduct that State. Some sold more houses, others sold fewer, lt was for the State governments to make up their minds. 
The Australian Labor Party never gives up its policy of socialism and government ownership. I think it would be pertinent to remind the House that after the war, in  1945,  Labor was in power. That was the last time it was in power until the last few months. In the period immediately after the war the Minister for Post-War Reconstruction,  Mr Dedman,  sei up an Australian Housing Commission. This was to ensure complete government ownership of all future homes in Australia. There was to be no private ownership of homes and they were to be allotted by ballot for rental only. Citizens were not only to be directed where to work, as they would have been under a Labor government, but were also to have a number put on their back and told to live in the home allotted by the Government. We are reaching that stage again with the kind of legislation this Government is bringing in. 
The Dedman proposal was challenged as to legality and was found to be invalid. It was only then that the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement was negotiated. The Agreement came about because the Commonwealth, under the Constitution, could not do what it wanted. But the States on that occasion were forced into an unfortunate position, and today again they are forced into that position because they cannot get money unless they agree to the dictates of this socialist Government. In the post-war period first the South Australian Government and later the Tasmanian Government refused to come into the Commonwealth housing scheme. When challenged on the matter in this House, as was admitted by the honourable member for Corio this afternoon,  Mr Dedman  said, in stating the policy of the Labor Party was - and the words are famous in this country: 
We don't want to build a nation of little capitalists. 
He was referring to the Australian Housing Commission he proposed to set up - a rental community. The Liberal and Country parties had to live with the scheme for about 10 years until 1955-56, when it expired. Only then were low income people able to own their own homes and in that regard the previous Government did a magnificent job. A leopard never changes its spots. After 23 years of being in the wilderness Labor is in power again and is up to its old tricks to build up a rental community. The Minister has become panicky in relation to this matter. He talks about 93,000 people on the Housing Commission waiting lists and says that there is a major housing crisis. That is sheer nonsense; I have pointed this out before and I will not repeat much of it. 
It is a fact, and he cannot deny it, that today we are building in Australia one house for every 1.4 increase in the population. What does that indicate? I admit that there is a social problem in some parts of Australia. One exists in Sydney in the Minister's own electorate, as has been pointed out. There is a social problem but there is no housing shortage in Australia in terms of the number of houses that are built. However, there is a grave danger - and I warn the Minister - of over-building in this country. Honourable members opposite may laugh. They know nothing about it. Only today I heard the Minister make a statement in this House, backing up the builders' labourers unions claims for what he called permanent occupations. Does he realise that that would vastly increase the cost of construction in this country and would add to the cost of a home. 
The Minister for Housing has stated on many occasions and again only last weekend that there is a serious crisis in housing and that more money must be made available to catch up on the housing shortage. Does he really believe this to be true or is he palpably ignorant of the economics of housing? Is he aware that there are between 30,000 and 40,000 houses and flats vacant in Sydney alone and that about 3,000 of these were advertised to let only last Saturday in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'? Does he realise that it is becoming increasingly difficult to let houses or flats at a rental that would give the owner a reasonable return on the current market value? How does he explain his statement- 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to a statement made by  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, at the recent conference of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to the effect that the Government had agreed to give on very special and advantageous terms a large area of land upon which the trade unions would build houses. Was this statement correct? Is it a fact that the ACTU proposed to enter into a partnership arrangement with a multi-national organisation to build the houses and that the Government or this Parliament will have no authority or direction whatsoever in the matter? Does the Prime Minister think it is just and fair to the people as a whole that such favoured treatment should be given to  Mr Hawke  or to the ACTU? 
I ask the Prime Minister: If a referendum on prices is approved by the people, will the Government control the price of land, as he has already mentioned, and reintroduce rent controls on an Australian basis? Is the Prime Minister aware that the effect of land sales control when last applied was to restrict the availability of land and to create a blackmarket to the point that almost everyone who wanted land was obliged to pay a major part of the price under the counter? Is he also aware that the retention of rent control, after wartime wages control was lifted, was the principal cause of the tragic shortage of rental homes for low income workers and pensioners on fixed incomes and has caused and is still causing cruel distress to hundreds of thousands of defenceless people? 
I am opposed to this motion. I oppose it principally on the ground that I believe it will open the door to social recognition of homosexuality as a normal way of life. I cannot accept that proposition and I do not think the Australian people want to accept it. I am surprised that a motion of this sort has been introduced into this House. I cannot understand what motivated the moving of this motion. 
One wonders what motivated the moving of this motion and also whether an ex-Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  could not think of more important matters to discuss. To me it is rather significant and extraordinary that this motion has been seconded by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  in the atmosphere which exists in the community today because I do not know of any subject that tends more to mora] pollution than homosexuality. It is true, of course, that homosexuality exists. I do not know much about it. I believe it is completely distasteful to the average man and woman in this country who I think would prefer to have nothing to do with it. But as I said, homosexuality does exist. We can feel sympathy for these people because they are unable to control themselves. No one can deny that homosexuality is a twist in normality. It is unforunate that there are many twists in normality in our community. Very often the actions of the people who are so affected are very unacceptable to society as a whole. I refer, for instance, to kleptomania - the urge to steal. These people cannot control themselves. But their actions are an offence and are punishable by law. It is a criminal offence. Drunkenness is an offence. Drug addition which some people cannot avoid is an offence also. Violence in many ways and in many aspects, although some people cannot help performing violent acts, is an offence. Prostitution is an offence in many countries. One could go on. These are all twists to normality. But there is no reason why society should have to accept them as the normal way of life.  
It must be admitted that this is predominantly a Christian society. The right honourable member for Higgins mentioned the question of the Church. The Christian churches fundamentally are opposed to homosexuality which always has been an offence against normality. The Bible makes that perfectly clear. One need quote only from a report which is currently being examined by the Church of England Synod. An article on the report states: 
The report warns that 'gay liberation' and similar movements attack society in a fundamental way. That was real and not imagined. 
Previously society asked the homosexual to change his ways, now the homosexual demands that society change . . . to suit the homosexual. The article continues: 
The significance of this change could not be clearer, the report says. 
This is why the Committee wants legal sanctions against overt homosexuality to remain. 
That is the view of the Church of England. I have not time to quote views from other churches. 
It is quite true that in recent years as we are aware there has been a drift to a permissive society. This has encouraged the homosexual to come out into the open. He now demands not only the passing of a resolution such as this but official recognition by society. If this resolution is passed and its terms put into effect, the activities of homosexuals in certain respects will be made legal. It certainly suggests that they should be made legal. But the homosexuals do not want to stop at recognition. They want homosexuality to be accepted by society as a normal way of life. I cannot accept, and I do not believe that people will accept, that kind of approach. To legalise is to give the green light to promote, publicise and encourage homosexuality in all its forms. There are many people, I believe, who can be saved from this distorted way of life. It is a distorted way of life and it should be branded for what it is. Young people must be protected from being persuaded to drift into this obnoxious habit. I refuse to believe that many people who practise homosexuality could not refrain from doing so; they should be encouraged to refrain from these activities. 
I do not want to take up too much time because I know that others wish to speak in this debate. But I have a letter with me. It came to me 2 or 3 days ago when I presented a petition to this House. It is so significant that I wish to read it. It is from a constituent. It deals with a petition in another matter. I will not refer to that now. A number of petitions of the type mentioned have been presented in the last few days. My constituent states: 
This letter and the enclosed petition is to protest against the increasing decline in the moral standards of our community. 
I think that everybody accepts that this is so. The letter continues: 
A society in which sex-shops, pornographic literature and films, homosexuality, drug indulgence, sexual permissiveness and similar evils are encouraged, will decay and destroy itself. 
We have a Government- 
I am not making this a Government matter but my constituent says this in her letter:  . . actually legislating to permit such things and at the same time religious education is being limited or eliminated and our children are being taught that even right and wrong are only relative. 
This is ridiculous. 
How can a generation flower into decent manhood or womanhood with such teachings? 
TV could be a power for good, now it is being used to propagate all that is worst in human nature. Our  children are subjected to the constant glorification of sex whilst only pitying sneers are given to the age-old ideals of integrity, national pride and self-sacrifice! 
The great majority of Australians-- 
And this is absolutely true - 
Don't want to see magazine racks full of filth and pornography! 
Don't want to see films degrading womanhood, motherhood and marriage! 
Don't want to see our children exposed to drugs, sex, homosexuality and violence! 
We want a stable community, based on sound Christian ethics in which decency, truth, law and order are exalted and sordid filth relegated to the gutters where it belongs. 
It's time the Government took some responsibility for the decline in moral standards in Australia. 
It's time for the Government to act to save our young people from themselves and from those who exploit them. 
Keep on the way we are going and you can wrap Australia up in a neat little package and hand it over as a gift to our enemies . . . 
I endorse every word that my constituent has written. 
It is all very well to laugh the thing off, but it is a serious matter. It seems to me that if the Government acted in accordance with the motion which has been moved by the right honourable member for Higgins, it would bring down on Australia a further advance of the permissive society that is so destroying the fabric of the moral rectitude of the Australian people. I think this is a terrible thing. I cannot understand any decent man or woman opening the door wider to these kinds of things. Therefore, I violently oppose the motion. I sincerely hope that the common sense and decency of honourable members in this House will prevail and that we will reject this motion, and indeed reject an amendment which has been foreshadowed. I do not believe that we should go any further in interfering with the law as it stands at the present time. I hope that this House will reject the motion and not open the door to depravity as a way of life. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and the Minister for Works. In the amalgamation of the Department of Works and the Department of Housing is it proposed to set up a very big construction department which will undertake major projects in all fields, both domestic and commercial? If this is so, is it contemplated that the new department will carry out projects on the day labour principle, as I understand is advocated by the Minister, or confine itself to supervision of a contract system? Incidentally, before deciding on projects is it proposed to consult with the Builders Labourers Federation and obtain its approval? 
The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  congratulated the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  upon his good work. I do not .think that anybody can deny that the Minister has been an enthusiast. He is an enthusiastic man. We have crossed swords a few times over housing in our parliamentary careers. However, my complaint is that he unfortunately has a one-track mind concerning housing. Still, this is true .to his principles because, after all, he is perhaps one of .the most dedicated socialists in the House. He has one purpose and one purpose only: He believes fundamentally in government ownership and he believes sincerely that controls will cure all ills associated with housing. He has airy fairy notions but he will find in the end that these airy-fairy notions will not work. The fact is he just does not understand the fundamental principles of housing. 
Labor policy has never altered because, as I have said before in this House, the leopard never changes its spots. My old friend the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  knows it: The leopard never changes its spots. When Labor was in power prior to 1949 it tried to establish a Commonwealth housing commission and to get complete Commonwealth control over housing, but it found that this was illegal. Under the Constitution it is a State function. But now in devious ways Labor is trying to get around that problem and it is not going to stop until it gets complete Commonwealth control. Labor is now trying the tack of providing very cheap money to the States. We heard tonight of direct grants of money to the States from the Commonwealth Government, and that is to be debated later. Should the referendum on prices be approved then of course this Labor Government will have complete control over prices. 
I warn the people of Australia that if the Commonwealth gets complete control over prices it will be in a position to dictate whatever terms it likes for the control of housing throughout Australia. If the people are foolish enough not to vote 'No' at that referendum they will find out later the danger that exists. It is true that this Government is hellbent on 3 things in housing, as I see it. Firstly, the building up of a rental community. Honourable members will find that that is its policy. Labor is discouraging and always has discouraged home ownership in its true terms. What is more serious, it is destroying the building society movement throughout Australia and is hellbent on doing so. This Government fought the States on the latest CommonwealthState Housing Agreement on all these matters and accepted only what it could get finally in the negotiations. But its idea was to get control of these matters. This means of course to get complete control for the central government. 
The Minister for Housing claims that there is a housing crisis. I have said before that there is no such thing. There is a welfare problem concerning very low income groups; I grant that. But this is a self-inflicted wound brought about by the very control system which the Labor Party espouses. This is the result of controls that were laid down after the war years and is particularly evident in New South Wales where the problem is greatest. A Labor government was in power in New South Wales for 24 years and it established the position whereby it completely destroyed the investment in rental homes so that anybody who owned a home as an investment and who rented it go rid of it. Therefore there is a complete scarcity of rental homes, especially for the low income groups in New South Wales. This program of course, was subsidised in a very unfair way by the owners of these homes. It was not done by all the people; it just happens that the people who owned the homes subsidised the low rentals because of the control system that operated at that time. But now the taxpayers of Australia are to foot the bill. We are told - and the Minister is very proud of it for he has just mentioned it - that $290m is to be made available to the States at 4 per cent interest and $102m to the Defence Services Homes Scheme at  3i  per cent interest. The people do not seem to understand what this means. We are paying 8.5 per cent interest on loans in order to give this money to the States so that they can provide this housing for low income groups. This means, just in respect of those amounts, a subsidy for rental purposes of over $15m by the people of Australia - and that is a pretty substantial sum of money to come out of the taxpayers' pocket. To the contrary home owners interest rates are to go up to 8i per cent and  9i  per cent. This is a clear breaking of a promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during the election campaign. 
I know it is troubling members of the Labor Party and that they are trying to get round it in all sorts of ways. But they will find that they will be running up against more trouble because while they are trying to close a door here, another opens there. They will find that they are in real trouble in connection with this matter. The fact is the Government is discouraging home ownership by raising interest rates - which is very unfair to hundreds of thousands of people in this country. 
The building societies of course are gradually being destroyed, notwithstanding the mouthings that the Minister preaches at their conferences. Building societies have been the backbone of home ownership in this country in recent years. Yet we hear that a new Bill will be introduced to provide for the control of building societies in the same way as the Government controls the insurance companies and the banks. The Bill will enable the Government to control the way in which building societies use their money. Honourable members can imagine what will happen to it. We know, too, how the savings of the people in Australia are to be diverted through the Australian Industry Development Corporation, a huge socialist organisation which will destroy the incentive for people to deposit their savings with the building societies. The deposits will be directed and diverted into the AIDC to finance the huge socialist enterprise of Government ownership again. 
The Minister has some weird notions and I hope he does not mind my talking about them. One weird idea was revealed in his statement the other day when he blamed the master builders for locking out the builders labourers. Why do the builders labourers not go back to work and do all the jobs that they should be doing? Why does the Minister segregate those that have a green ban, as it is called? The Government is aiding and abetting these people to do that kind of thing. The Government is bringing this situation about itself. I never heard the Minister complain about the builders labourers banning certain jobs. Who are these builders labourers that they shall dictate what jobs shall go on and what jobs shall not and defy the proper elected authorities of this country? That is what is happening and the Government is aiding and abetting them. 
The Minister thinks that land prices can be controlled by pegging land prices. This just cannot be done. It has never been done anywhere where an attempt has been made to control land prices. The Minister thinks that a Government monopoly of land let out on leasehold will finally reduce the price of land. It will not. Speaking from experience extending over 50 years I can assure the Minister he will find that that system will not ultimately reduce the price that people will have to pay for land. The Minister admitted in answer to a question I asked today that he will now have a huge construction organisation in which it is intended to employ day labour in the construction of homes and bigger buildings in this country. God help us if we have to pay for that. Taxpayers will know what they are up against if he ever brings that kind of big construction department into being. There is no doubt that it will not operate. His plans for mobile homes on park lands are simply pathetic and almost laughable. He just does not understand housing. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am an ordinary citizen with no special knowledge of the Constitution and I am not a lawyer, but I have served for 25 years in local government and I think that should qualify me to know something about it. I agree that local government needs more money; there is no doubt about that. It has been asked to take on additional obligations throughout Australia and it is starved of money. However, an alteration to the Constitution is not needed to give local government more money; the power already exists under section 96 of the Constitution for the Commonwealth to give what it wants to give. That destroys the argument of both the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow).  As one who knows local government and understands the obligations of the Federal Government and State governments, I am scared stiff of what will happen if the people approve of this question. I know, as most members here know, that our forebears struggled for many years to create the federal system under which we operate today. There were many years of struggle before the Federal system was achieved, yet the Government is going to destroy the whole federal system within a few hours of debate in this Parliament. 
The people should be warned about this. I do not want to emphasise it, as the Leader of the Country Party mentioned it a moment ago, but it is true that the basis of our Constitution is the delegation by the States of certain powers to create the Commonwealth of Australia as provided for in the Constitution. When the Constitution was established, it was a deliberate intention that the States would retain their identity and have the sole right to create and set up their own organisations of a local and domestic character. I do not think anybody can deny that. Local Government is a vital part of the machinery of the States. Local government cannot be isolated from the States. Local government authorities vary as between the States. Without the States local government would die, and without local government the States would be in an unholy mess. They are interdependent upon each other and nobody can isolate them from each other. 
This Bill, as we all know but I think it should be mentioned, provides for 2 additions to the Constitution. The first is to section 51, which at present, in placitum (iv) gives the Commonwealth the power to borrow money from the public purse. The proposed new placitum (ivA) gives the Commonwealth the power to borrow money for local government. The second addition - they are only additions to the Constitution - is to section 96, which at present gives power to the Commonwealth to grant finance to any State as this Parliament thinks fit. If that section does not give the right to this Parliament to give more money to local government in any State I should like to know what would. That is very clearly stated. But the Government wants to insert a new section 96a to give this same power to grant finance to any local government body on such terms as this Parliament thinks fit. In other words, the intention is perfectly clear - the Commonwealth wants to destroy the States by by-passing them and taking control of local government with all its ramifications. There can be no doubt about that. 
Why was this Bill introduced at all? It must be obvious to all people in Australia that this Government is out to destroy the Federal system in its entirety and to centralise all power in Canberra. One does not need to go over the many pieces of legislation that have been introduced into the Parliament to establish that fact. We have had several Bills on education and another has been introduced relating to health insurance. Right through the whole ambit of legislation this attempt to centralise power can be seen. 
Maybe they are, but the Government wants to centralise all power in Canberra. But the difficulty from the people's point of view is that the Government is doing things by stealth and trying to deceive the people of Australia. We have only to consider the 2 Bills which were passed by this House in the last 24 hours. The first one was designed to kill the Senate completely. The second was designed to adjust the electorates in Australia so that only the Australian Labor Party could win government in Australia. We know the terms of the referendum to be put to the people but this will be the end result if the people of Australia are stupid enough to vote yes. 
We have only to look at the ramifications of the new Department of Urban and Regional Development. My old friend the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is sitting listening to me. The move to alter the Constitution in relation to the States and local government cannot be dissociated from the idea of establishing regional councils. Very soon the whole emphasis will be upon regional councils and local governing bodies will be completely destroyed. These referendum proposals cannot be dissociated from the Labor Party's scheme for the setting up under the new Cities Commission of bodies to control land throughout Australia. These bodies have been set up to centralise. 
Let us consider the proposed amalgamation of the Department of Housing and the Department of Works to establish a huge construction authority. This proposal was admitted to me in answer to a question in this House only a week ago. These are the sorts of things that are being developed to get complete centralised control over the whole of the affairs of Australia. Added to this situation is the fact that a referendum is proposed to give the Government control over prices and incomes. If that proposal is passed by the people who are deceived into believing that prices can be controlled by giving such control to the central government, this power will operate in conjunction with all the other proposals I have mentioned to centralise power in this one government in Australia. 
I turn now to the Government's proposals for the Australian Industry Development Corporation - a newly established organisation. The Government proposes that the Corporation will get from the people of Australia the whole of their savings. Inducement will be given for the people to invest in the AIDC and this organisation will be the means by which the whole of industry, including the mining industry, throughout Australia will be taken over by the central Government. This is the plan. This is how it is working out. The Government intends not only to take over the ownership of industry but also commercial enterprises as well. If the Australian people do not wake up to these facts the future for this country will be frightening. If the people fall for the drive for power by this Government the ultimate result will be that Australia will be a completely socialist country under a republican dictatorship. There is no question that that is the way the Government is leading Australia. All the freedoms that we have cherished and enjoyed are in jeopardy. Our individuality, our way of life, our family life, our standards of citizenship and even our Christian principles are in jeopardy. More power must not be given to this Government. It cannot be trusted by the people of Australia. It is drunk for power and it is dictated to by unions of Australia. 
That is right. Local government is a wonderful institution. It is an instrument of the State, as I have said. It is really the basis of citizenship where domestic and family associations are nurtured and developed, where human contacts and friend ships and local participations are encouraged in people. If one has been in local government one will understand or if one is a good citizen one will understand- 
Christian you will understand. 
Yes, and if one is a Christian one will understand. The local councils and the local mayor, who is the leading citizen in the area; the town hall which is a focal point for the social good fellowship of people in the area; the chambers of commerce that gather around in the local area; the progress associations; the sporting clubs; the Red Cross; the Legacy movement; the senior citizens clubs; the hospitals and the organisations surrounding the hospitals; the churches; the local pride that is established in the local community and in the local area; and the State pride that is engendered because the people belong to one State and pride themselves on being in co-operation with the total nation of Australia, all form part of local government. It is proposed that all these things in our lives are to be directed from one central place in Canberra. If the people of Australia are to accept that, then I do not know the people of Australia. In my opinion, if this referendum is carried and money is provided directly from the Commonwealth to local government, it could mean less money being available to local councils. A result of that, as was explained by the Leader of the Opposition here today, could be an increase in rates for the people of Australia. Although they might depend upon the Commonwealth to give them money, in which case the Commonwealth will dictate what is to be done with that money, they will remain State organisations. Honourable members should not forget that a State Government can change the composition of local councils, wipe them out, or do whatever it likes in relation to their constitution. 
If the Commonwealth fails to give local councils the money they need to do things that they are committed to do, the councils will have to get the necessary money from other sources, and that will lead to an increase in rates. That is why I say that the people of Australia face the possibility of increased rates. Few people seem to think of it this way, but the activities of local government are very much interlocked with other State functions. Those who have been in local government know this. 
There is an interlocking between local government, county councils, water boards and electricity supply authorities. 
Yes, and with authorities concerned with main roads, as well as with new departments established to look after ecology and the environment. All these things are interlocked in a State setup, yet the Federal Government is trying to alienate them and bring the Commonwealth into direct contact with and establish control of local government bodies. Of course, the idea will appeal to many persons at the beginning. It is like handing out the lolly, or dangling the carrot, as somebody else said. The unthinking may grab at the offer, no doubt, but what is the price to be paid? That is what the people have to think about. In my opinion, the price will be the ultimate loss of their freedom, if they pass this kind of legislation and destroy our  Constitution.  That reminds me of the old story. The Commonwealth is like the wolf in Little Red Riding Hood'. 'What lovely eyes you have'. 'The better to see you with, my dear*. 'What big ears you have'. "The better to hear you with, my dear'. 'What a big mouth you have'. Yes, a big mouth, ready to gobble up local government - and the Commonwealth wolf will gobble up little local government. This is what could happen, and the people must not allow themseves to be deceived. 
Of course, the next move by this Government will be to establish, in a local government sense, regional councils. They are already at it. They are out to destroy local government as we know it and to set up great groups in the form of regional councils. This will destroy the individuality of each of the existing councils of which the councils are so proud. Ultimately, of course, if this goes on, it will mean the destruction of the States altogether. Why cannot the Labor Party be honest and ask the people of Australia straight out for power to abolish the States? Why do they not put a referendum question on that point and do it all in one bite? There is no doubt that all the Labor Party wants is power. She wants power to do as she will; and she will centralise all that power in Canberra. 
This Bill must be rejected if we are to retain our freedom as individuals in this country. I have had a long experience in public life, including local government, and I would say that if the people are foolish enough to be deceived by the kind of offer they are being made now, in accordance with which money will go direct from the Commonwealth to local government bodies, the good aldermen who in most cases give their services free of charge will soon find themselves in a difficult position. 
I did not get anything out of it. I was never paid. I acted in a voluntary capacity. The people ought to be careful not to be deceived by the little crumb that is offered. I would suggest to aldermen that they think deeply before they accept this kind of offer, for many things are involved in it. There would be too much obvious loss of freedom of the individual and too much power vested in the central government. Ultimately that must lead to a state of complete socialism in this country. I refuse to believe that the decent people of Australia want that kind of government. 
If the Bill passes this House, as no doubt it will, I believe that the good sense of the Senate will result in its being rejected in that House. No doubt it will then come back here again and ultimately the Government will have its referendum. However, I believe that the good sense of the people of Australia will not allow the Government to do these things. I am sure that the people of this country will vote no at the referendum in such a resounding way that the Labor Party will never come back again trying to get their approval for this kind of socialistic legislation. 
 This is a new Department, just as the previous estimates concerned a new Department. On this occasion I think it is important that we should take a close look at what is going on in relation to this Department. The functions of the Department of Urban and Regional Development have a far reaching effect and, if I may say so, have a very important impact on the future development of Australia. I think that even the Minister will agree with those statements. However, the Department needs to be properly handled at this stage of its development because the foundation we lay in relation to a department of this character, which is going to have such far reaching effects, is all important, in my opinion. In Labor's hands, as it is a socialist Government, it is possible - and I am not making a charge in this respect - that if it approaches the Department with that idea in its mind, it could do great and irreversible damage to this country in many ways. It could in fact stultify development, and in the process it could cost thousands of millions of dollars, more perhaps than would be justified. 
The Liberal Government had established last year the National Urban and Regional Development Authority and we had approached  Sir John  Overall, as the head of that authority, to carry out functions similar to those envisaged at the present time by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I have put in many years of study on this matter; indeed, I think I can claim to be largely responsible for the fact that this Authority under the Liberal Government was established. There are many things that we need to watch on this occasion. The first is the question of orderly development of our existing cities. I know that the Minister has thought of (his. There is a need to decentralise the cities on a satellite basis, and I do not think the Minister will disagree with that. 
Apart from anything else there is also a need to watch out on the development of existing towns in Australia. We do not often speak on this subject but the Commission is not only a development organisation; it is also a decentralisation organisation, or should be. We should bear that in mind at all times. The second point is that we should give encouragement to the new growth centres and in this respect, as I have just said, decentralise the existing towns with the new growth centres. 
We must have complete co-operation with the State governments and their authorities. There are many dangers in this regard but I do not have time in this debate to develop this aspect. I mentioned some of the dangers last Thursday night when speaking to another Bill. Not only do we need co-operation with the States, but in my opinion it is essential that we also should give encouragement to and co-operate with private enterprise participation in the development. I am sorry to say that there is not enough emphasis on this aspect. I do not want to trespass on another Bill that was introduced by the Minister tonight but I believe that private enterprise participation is essential and that there is a real need to assess national priorities. I do not think that enough attention is given to that matter at present. 
The authority which was established by the Liberal Party has now been taken over by the Labor Party which has given it the new title of Cities Commission. In addition, the Department of Urban and Regional Development has been established. All of these proposals depend on money, and money is power. Decisions on all future operations will, if we are not careful, be made in Canberra alone, notwithstanding the Minister's statement tonight that he will co-operate with the States. Of course the States will accept money where they can get it. But the dictation of what is to be done in my opinion can easily be directed from the central control in Canberra. If that is the idea, we will have a superfluity of goverment ownership and State and local governments and regional authorities will be mere puppets rather than authorities having some say in the development of the various States. These remarks, of course, can apply to the Cities Commission too. There is a great danger that if development proceeds under these organisations in accordance with the Australian Labor Party's avowed idea of socialism we will have the dead hand of socialism on the future development of city growth throughout Australia. If that is the guiding principle, the situation will develop where the individual will be forgotten forever and irrevocable harm will result in the future. 

 Sir John Overall has now gone, of course. The report that has just been tabled is informative and credit must be given for its production and the fact that it was produced in such a short time. It is, however, mostly a rehash of already available information. Time has not permitted proper research - this is no reflection on  Sir John  Overall - in depth of the ramifications or economic effects of some of the suggestions that have been made. Growth centres are mentioned for many areas in all States but no priorities of any kind are suggested and there are no estimates of the probable costs entailed in the program envisaged in the report. 
The estimates for the Department provide for a total expenditure of $136m this year. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that this is only the beginning. Taking only one centre, I understand that $33m is proposed for AlburyWodonga this year. Have we any ideas of what we are letting ourselves in for in this respect? The ultimate costs could run into thousands of millions of dollars, yet nothing has been said about it either in the Bill which was introduced tonight or in the report I am discussing at present. 
The Government proposes to set up land commissions to buy land to let out on a leasehold basis. This will apply to schemes all over Australia. Development corporations are to be set up and financed by the Government. Yet no evidence is given of the total cost involved in these ideas. The Minister aims for a new city at Albury-Wodonga with a population of 300,000 people. I admire him for his enthusiasm, but he is living in dreamland. I have had 50 years experience in development work and I can tell him that his present objective will never succeed within the time limit he has in mind. It will be many long years before any real results are achieved. The proposals will grow with the power of money. I do not deny their need, but in the meantime the cost will be astronomical. The overhead costs in arranging this type of project are not being taken into consideration. 
Already the propaganda of publicity has created vast trading and dealing in land around these proposed growth centres - not only at Albury-Wodonga but all over Australia. Nothing has been done on the question of priorities. False values for land can be created, and many of the excited little fingers that are trying to grab profits from these land deals are in for a rude shock as times passes. I tell the Minister that land prices cannot be controlled whether the land is leasehold or freehold. The market will find its own level in spite of what is done in this respect. I have lived in this business for a long time and 1 have learnt that in real estate there is no effective way of controlling the price of land, and if one imposes control one inhibits the dealing in land. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the Government proposes to deprive a small number of children of the subsidy given to all other children in Australia because their parents have chosen to send them to what the Government describes as 'wealthy schools'? Is it also a fact that many thousands of children of wealthy parents are given free education in public high schools? Is the Government proposing to give free education to all children attending universities irrespective of the wealth of their parents? Why does the Government discriminate against the children attending the small number of schools classified as 'wealthy' even though their parents are not wealthy? Is this equality and justice? 
Will the Prime Minister agree that the proposal to allow  interest paid on home mortgages as a taxation deduction is highly discriminatory against tens of thousands of low and middle income earners? Is interest paid on a mortgage on a home exactly the same kind of liability as rent paid upon a home leased for personal occupation? Why the discrimination? Why does the Government intend to cancel the home savings grants scheme which enables low income earners to become home owners? What are the inflationary implications of the proposed scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads' assessment of freeway plans tabled by him in this House last week was substantially prepared by Professor D. Cochrane of Monash University and  Mr K.  M. Thomas with the assistance of Bureau officers? Is it a fact that the report places undue emphasis on the Warringah Expressway in Sydney relative to other freeway projects throughout Australia? Is it a fact that  Mr Thomas  and his son-in-law,  Dr Nicholson,  have both purchased homes at Castlecrag since the plan for the Warringah Expressway was announced by the New South Wales Government? Has  Dr Nicholson  appeared often in public vocally condemning the work on the basis that it would block his harbour view? If these are facts, will the Minister appoint an independent committee of inquiry to evaluate the Warringah Expressway project objectively? 
