
 -Mr Deputy President, I rise to support the motion. May I begin by congratulating the  President,  in his absence, and paying to him the traditional courtesies- although they are traditional they arc nonetheless sincere- on his election to the high office of  President  of the Senate. I hasten to add to that an assurance of my loyalty and my constant endeavour at all times to respect his office. I would also like to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy President,  on your election to the important office of  Deputy President  of the Senate and  Chairman  of Committees and offer you a similar assurance of loyalty and a constant endeavour to respect your office in my time in this place. While on the subject of congratulations I would also like to offer congratulations to two of my colleagues on the Government side of the chamber,  Senator Knight  and  Senator Kilgariff,  on their excellent speeches in moving and seconding respectively the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. 
I have come here, and of course am honoured to be here, by reason of the fact that I was chosen by the electors of the State of Victoria to represent them in this place. I am deeply conscious of the trust which they, the people of Victoria, have placed in me in electing me to the Senate. I hope that during my time in this place I will prove myself to be worthy of that trust. I am deeply conscious of the fact that, but for the major swing by the electors of Australia towards the coalition parties, I would not be here today. Of course, on a wider plane, the electors of Australia clearly and unmistakably endorsed the platform and policies of our Government as enunciated by our leaders and our parties during the campaign and as detailed in the Speech of the Governor-General. 
There are, of course, grave problems confronting the nation at this time. I suppose one must say that the 2 greatest problems we are facing are the twin evils of inflation and unemployment which are stalking the nation and ravaging the economy to such an extent that it is a matter of urgency for all of us to apply ourselves to the mammoth task of halting those evils and getting the country back on its feet. I appeal to honourable senators on both sides of the House to apply themselves jointly to this task over the months to come because these twin evils are not respecters of persons. We all feel the effects of them, whether directly or indirectly. I do no propose to set myself up as an authority on the remedies to be applied. The policies of the coalition parties, as I have stated, are clearly set out in the Speech of the Governor-General and I support them, but no good purpose would be served here by my repetition of them. But I do want to say this: Our long term objective is to prevent the growth of centralised bureaucratic domination in Australia. It will be the endeavour of the Government to restore incentives to the individual and to encourage him to use his own initiative for his economic welfare without losing sight, of course, of the necessity to support the poor, the underprivileged, the disadvantaged and those people in the community who are unable to help themselves. We do not, however, want to breed a nation of people who are looking for an armchair ride from the cradle to the grave with total dependence on government at all stages. I remind the Senate that this nation was built and developed by the exercising of individual initiative and ability and will only continue to prosper and develop under a private enterprise system which gives each and every individual the right and incentive to exercise his own initiative and talents. 
I come from the Goulburn Valley area in the north of Victoria. One has to go back some 20 years to the days of the late  Senator MajorGeneral  George Rankin to find the last senator who came from north of the Great Divide in Victoria. I am conscious of the fact that I represent the people of the whole of the State, but because of my interest in primary industry I would like to devote some of the time allotted to me on this very important occasion today to saying something of the great primary industries in Australia. From the time of Federation and before the primary industries of Australia have been the backbone of the export trade of this country and have thus done a great deal in the economic field to develop the nation to its present stature. The future picture, of course, will be slightly different because of the discoveries of great mineral wealth in recent times. One looks forward in the future to seeing a balance between the primary industries and the mineral wealth of the nation giving us the export income which is so vital to the future development of this nation. 
I regret to say that certain sections of primary industry are today facing troubled times. Without presenting an exhaustive list I can instance the beef industry, the dairy industry and the fruit industry. Because time does not permit my dealing with them all or my covering the whole field I would like to deal with the fruit industry in particular today. In dealing with the fruit industry, and I couple with that the vegetable industry, we are dealing with an industry in this nation which has an estimated annual production of some $320m. This industry is facing both economic problems and what I might term problems of nature by the emergence of new and different breeds of pests. In this latter category a challenge to the whole industry has emerged in recent months with the unfortunate appearance of a pest known as the oriental fruit fly, which is already known to be in significant numbers over an area of 200 000 hectares in the Northern Territory. The oriental fruit fly is considered to be one of the most damaging fruit flies in the world. It attacks a wide variety of fruits and vegetables throughout Asia and eastwards through Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. It is clear therefore that both the Australian fruit and vegetable industries, including those concerned with export canning, face serious problems with the appearance in Australia of this fruit fly. 
I want to deal briefly with the responsibilities of the government departments in this regard. The original responsibility for the control of the areas into which the fruit fly might spread rests with the Department of Health. It is responsible for implementing quarantine procedures to prevent the fruit fly from getting into areas in which it has not already appeared. In the areas in which it has already appeared the Department of Primary Industry has the task of eradication in cooperation with the appropriate State or Territory authority. The research section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, which comes under the responsibility of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  is available to both the State and Federal departments in relation to the work of detecting and eradicating this evil. 
Difficulties are being encountered at the present time- we must remember that this fly made its appearance in Australia only in the last 2 months- by the fact that very little is known about this fly and how it came to be in Australia. Experiments are taking place with various chemicals in an endeavour to obtain some effective method of destruction. I want to congratulate the CSIRO and the Minister for Science on the urgent and important work which already has been undertaken. The CSIRO 's officers are supremely conscious of the grave threat which this situation poses to one of our major industries. I have already stated that the industry is worth some $320m a year to the nation. If this oriental fruit fly infestation spreads to a point where it destroys the whole industry, it will be readily appreciated that the potential income losses will be very large. This fly will affect both the local and export markets. It is true to say that until more is known, firstly, of its habits, including competition it may meet from other fruit flies already in Australia and, secondly, the effectiveness of the imposition of disinflation and quarantine measures already practised against these other fruit flies that are known to the Department of Primary Industry, the magnitude of the commercial loss from the fly cannot be estimated accurately. 
It is also true to say that existing inspection and quarantine measures within Australia may allow interstate trade to continue relatively unfettered so long as the fly is restricted to the areas which it is known to inhabit at this stage, that is, parts of the Northern Territory. At present, traffic in these areas is restricted to personal transport by travellers. No real commercial fruit is grown in the affected area. The population of Darwin already has been alerted to the dangers of taking fruit to other States. Of course, the situation would change rapidly if the fly were to spread to the east coast of Queensland where there is a substantial trade in tropical fruits and tomatoes with the southern States. 
The position in respect to overseas trade is a little difficult to predict at this stage. Some import bans must be expected from countries which import fruit from Australia. Bans on the importation of tropical and temperate fruit from Australia can be expected from some of our trading partners as it has now been reported and is widely known in those countries that oriental fruit fly is present in this country. Some immediate steps, therefore, must be taken to minimise the effect of the fly which has already been detected. For example, there are no' quarantine provisions at Darwin airport or any other airport in Australia. It will be readily appreciated that if the free passage of fruit is permitted indiscriminately, the fly could spread south to Adelaide and other places in the south of Australia. I make an earnest appeal to the appropriate departments to take urgent action to grapple with this very important problem. 
I now turn to the economic problems of the canning fruit industry which, at the moment, is in a crisis situation. The outlook for canning apricots, peaches and pears is troubled and in many ways uncertain. But 2 things are certain: Firstly, production will be reduced and, secondly, exports will shrink. The problem is one which arises in 3 States- in the Goulburn Valley area of Victoria, in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation area of New South Wales and in the upper Murray Valley area in South Australia including the areas of Loxton, Berri and Renmark. The position is particularly acute in Victoria where over 90 per cent of Australian canning pears are grown. Here there is a substantial tonnage which canners will be obliged to decline through lack of profitable outlets. The galling part of this situation is that Goulburn Valley pears are acknowledged to be equal to the best, if they are not the best, in the world and the canneries have more than an adequate capacity to can the whole crop. I suggest that the situation is particularly regrettable in a world in which two-thirds of the population is short of food and does not have enough to eat. I urge the Government for humanitarian if for no other reasons to investigate the situation with a view to seeing whether the substantial surplus quantities of canning fruits could be used as part of an overseas aid abroad program. 
The pear grower finds himself in an unenviable situation. He has received only partial payment for his 1975 season crop and until a few days ago had received payment for only 40 per cent of the crop. It seems reasonably certain that there will be a reduction in price in 1976- the current season for which the canneries are now taking in some of the fruit- and it also appears to be a virtual certainty that a substantial portion of the 1976 crop will be unsaleable to canneries. That is the fact. There is no possibility of stepping up exports as the unhappy truth here is that major importing countries, through an economic downturn, have reduced imports and competitors such as South Africa, with considerable currency and cost advantages, are pushing Australian canned fruits off the markets. 
Four major factors are contributing to the current crisis. Firstly, all the canneries are facing grave liquidity problems. The recent injection of $3m to the industry to enable it to pay the growers some of the outstanding money for the 1975 crop will do nothing in the long term to solve the problems although it has permitted the payment to growers beyond 40 per cent to which I have referred to be made. Secondly, in an industry which has a very high labour content from the time the fruit is taken from the tree until is appears on the supermarket shelf there have been massive increases in costs of production which affect growers and canners alike. The growers face increased payments for wages, materials and a number of variable indirect costs such as vehicle operation, interest and workers compensation insurance and in Victoria there has been a 12 per cent increase in water irrigation charges. The cost increase spiral facing the canneries includes labour, tin plate, cartons, labels, workers compensation insurance and various other indirect costs such as those which affect the growers. 
A third factor producing a crisis situation is the increase in marine freight costs. At a time when competition in world markets prevents any cost increases being passed on, the now familiar pattern of periodic freight rate increases in almost every overseas trade is a source of great concern to this great canning industry. Whilst one of Australia's main competitors in this field, South Africa, is also experiencing freight rate increases, these are occurring on a much smaller scale. There is already a huge difference in freight costs between the 2 countries. But when the rates rise again, as they will do on 1 July 1976, the disparity will widen to the point where the cost of shipping Australian canned fruits to the United Kingdom and Europe will be 10 1 per cent higher than the cost of taking fruit from South Africa to the same markets. Of course, this is an intolerable position. 
The fourth and probably the greatest single factor contributing to the crisis is the effect of international currency variations. Since international currencies started to fluctuate Australia has fared considerably worse than its 2 main competitors in overseas markets, South Africa and the United States of America. This can be best illustrated by citing the percentage decline in the realisation price for a carton of 29-ounce choice pears. I will take as a base static price £S2.60 for a carton of 29-ounce choice pears in Great Britain in January 1967. Comparing that figure with the same amount of £S2.60 in January 1976, we find that the effective percentage decline in realisation- the loss of value to the Australian market- is 36 per cent. That is the effective loss obtained by converting the amounts into Australian dollars. The effective loss on the South African rand is only 12 per cent and on the United States dollar it is 27 per cent. The brief facts and figures which I have cited, while not completely comprehensive, vividly illustrate the present crisis in the industry. A devaluation of the Australian currency undoubtedly would have assisted the industry. While I concede that there were sound reasons for not devaluing and that the decision not to devalue was taken by the Government in the overall interests of the Australian nation- it is proper to do that- it cannot be denied that the decision has disadvantaged the agricultural section generally and the canning fruit industry in particular. 
Other Australian export industries have experienced variations in realisation, including those from currency variations removed under stabilisation plans. I urge the Government to introduce a similar stabilisation plan to save the canning fruit industry from complete annihilation. The Australian Industry Development Corporation, at the request of the Minister for Agriculture in the previous Government, prepared a report for the reconstruction and rationalisation of the industry. Because of the major changes in the export markets between September and December of last year, the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has referred this report back to the Corporation for updating. I hope that the updated report will be made available as soon as possible so that some of the present uncertainties in the industry will be clarified. 
It seems likely that growers and workers will be phased out of the fruit industry and it is hoped that the process, which will undoubtedly have unfortunate social consequences for the persons concerned, will be undertaken with sympathy, understanding and dignity. It will be no easy matter for people, many of whom have spent a lifetime in the industry and know no other vocation, to be retrained and re-employed, particularly of course at a time when unemployment is running at such a high level. Because of the failure of successive governments, both State and Federal, to grapple with the problem of decentralisation, it is unlikely that alternative employment will be available in the areas affected and this will mean that the unfortunate persons who are concerned with this unemployment situation will have to go to the capital cities to obtain employment. 
I have dwelt at some length on the current problems of the fruit industry because of their serious nature and the large number of people whose economic welfare and future are involved. In the short time left at my disposal I wish to refer to a couple of social matters, the first being the importance of the family as a basic unit of society. It has always been my belief that the maintenance of the family as a basic unit of society is essential to our way of life in our Australian democracy. There can be no more noble vocation than that of spouse and parent. This, of course, is irrespective of whether the spouse and parent is the male of the species or the female of the species. The role of the father is equally important to that of the mother in the moulding and formation of the character of a child. I acknowledge, of course, the need for the Government to provide the economic support to the family unit by way of child endowment, child minding centres and various other aspects of social welfare programs to buttress the economic welfare of the family unit. 
As we stand today on the threshold of the last 25 years of the twentieth century, looking forward to the year 2000 and remembering that more than half of the population of this nation is under the age of 30 years, it is perhaps opportune to look briefly at what I regard as 2 urgent problems affecting our youth today. I refer firstly to the appalling carnage on our roads. One has only to pick up the newspapers on a Monday morning in any State of the Commonwealth to realise how many people under 25 years of age kill themselves on Australian roads. The statistics show that far more deaths occur in the 25 age group than in other age groups and there is ample evidence to show that a significant number of these deaths arise out of the lack of proper training in the pre-licence stage of people who become licensed to drive a motor car. I have had a close association with a pilot scheme in Victoria which is designed to correct this situation. At the Goulburn Valley Driver Training Complex at Shepparton there are comprehensive facilities which enable the complete instruction of children from the ages of 14 to 18 years in the whole gamut of problems which arise out of the use or abuse of the motor car. Honourable senators have to remember that at the speeds at which a motor car travels today it is an instrument of death, an instrument of destruction. 
The facilities at the training complex include a team of trained expert instructors, a driving track which includes every conceivable situation which one could meet on Australian roads, including adverse cambers, corrugations, railway crossings, humps and finally and very importantly a film centre which vividly illustrates the tragic consequences of excesses in speed and alcohol in relation to the driving of a motor car. I understand that similar centres are set up or are in the course of being set up in South Australia and Western Australia. In Victoria endeavours are being made to have the whole question of driver training incorporated as a subject in secondary school curricula, and considerable progress has been made in this regard. The Victorian driver training complex has been in operation for 2 years and has been set up at a cost of $250,000. It has had close interest and attention from the Victorian Government and has been used to advantage to train drivers from various government departments, including the Victorian Civil Ambulance Service and the Country Fire Authority. The plea I make today in this regard is for the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  who represents the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in this House to endeavour to have funds made available through the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act to the States to sponsor this type of driver training. The Act provides for grants to be made for road planning and research, which are defined in the Act in sufficiently wide terms to bring this sort of training within the ambit of it. I commend this type of training to the Minister for his urgent consideration and action. 
The last matter to which I wish to advert very briefly is the problem of abuse of drugs, particularly among secondary and tertiary students. I am not saying that I condemn secondary and tertiary students. I think the youth of today are wonderful people but it is always the minority among people who create the problem. The great majority of secondary and tertiary students, I think, will be excellent citizens. I am not unmindful of the excellent work of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in this field, but despite the work of that Committee there appears to me to be a case for tightening and policing the regulations relating to the illegal entry of drugs into Australia. 
I have covered a wide ambit of subjects during the course of this, my maiden speech. I thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  and the members of the Senate for their courtesy, patience, indulgence and tolerance during this effort. It will always be my constant endeavour while I am in this place to extend similar courtesy, patience, indulgence and tolerance not only to the occupant of the Chair but also to all honourable senators. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry yet received the updated report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation relating to the canned deciduous fruits industry? If the answer is no, will the Minister take urgent action to have the updated report made available as soon as possible and, immediately it becomes available, arrange for discussions with industry representatives as soon as possible? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to a Press release from the Treasurer dated 25 February last relating to investment allowance. No reference was made in that statement to the application of the allowance to items held under either hire purchase agreement or lease. These were mentioned without clarification in an earlier statement. Will the Minister arrange for a further statement to be made at an early date clarifying the position in relation to the application of the allowance to items under hire purchase or lease? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in a position to make a statement on Government action to assist the milk powder section of the dairy industry to prevent an almost immediate reduction in the price paid to hundreds of dairy farmers in Victoria and Tasmania and also to prevent the total collapse of the orderly marketing of dairy produce throughout Australia? 
Is the Minister for Science aware of the problem which European carp are causing in Australian waterways? As this fish is now rapidly spreading through the Victorian river system to the point where the famous Murray cod is almost a fish of the past, can the Minister indicate whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation can take any action to try to eradicate this menace? 
My question refers to the statement released yesterday in relation to unemployment benefits and the work test and presumably I should direct it to the Minister for Social Security. In view of the high percentage of persons found to be ineligible for benefits among the 1 12 000 beneficiaries visited by field officers of the Department of Social Security between May 1975 and January 1976, will the Minister arrange to have the remainder of the beneficiaries checked with a view to eliminating further persons found to be ineligible and thus afford a further saving to the taxpayer? 
I rise to support the motion and oppose the amendment which has been moved to the States Grants (Fruit Canneries) Bill. Before proceeding with the substance of my speech I shall deal briefly with some of the points raised by  Senator Walsh  who has just spoken on this matter. Apparently the honourable senator is under several misconceptions. One has to look at the history of the industry back to World War II to get a proper appreciation of its problems and of the present situation in which it finds itself. For some years after the conclusion of World War II the whole of the Austalian pack was sold to Britain as Food for Britain before it was off the tree. It was very difficult, if not impossible, to obtain fruit on the local market. This was a climate which encouraged governments of that day, I think of both persuasions, including some State governments, to increase production. This occurred notably in Victoria where the then Government opened up other lands under irrigation schemes in order to plant further orchards. 
The problem which the industry now faces is one of the 1970s only. There were no problems at all of a major degree in the industry, apart from the usual minor problems which any primary industry experienced from time to time in the 1960s. It was not until the early 1970s that the problems began to emerge. For the honourable senator to say that a Liberal-Country Party government prior to 1972 encouraged production is not to state the truth. The only argument he has given in support of his assertion is that tax incentives were given by that government. We all know- those of us in primary production know to our sorrow- of the great and damaging effect the abolition of these incentives had when they were abolished by the Labor Government when it took office in 1 972. 
I am not saying that fruit production should be increased. I ask the honourable senator to listen to my argument. All he said was that the tax incentives were encouragements given by a Liberal-Country Party government. I say that those incentives applied to a whole range of primary industries. I do not think any Government, whatever its persuasion, would propose a scheme whereby, because there is a bit of over-production in an industry, it takes the tax incentive off that industry. The taxation system is not based on that criterion. Of course the truth is that over the whole gamut of the primary industries of Australia there was a scheme which led to the development of properties and, in certain cases, to an increase in production. 
But the story of Australia's development as a great primary producing nation is, in part, due to the system of tax incentives which were introduced over the years by Liberal-Country Party governments. These incentives enabled a farmer to improve his property to the point where he could live with more comfort, produce more income and produce more goods. To say that our Government did something which encouraged an increase in production and to pose the only argument in its favour, namely, tax incentives, I think is not a valid argument. In dealing with the matter of assistance to the industry and what happened to the industry, I remind the honourable senator that in 1972, before the Australian Labor Party came into government, it promised 2 things. The first of these promises was that it would ease the means test in relation to the tree pull scheme which had been introduced by our Government in 1971 with a view to easing people out of the industry. 
As I said earlier, it was in the 1970s when the problems arose and when a Liberal-Country Party Government introduced this tree pull scheme. It was designed to ease, and it did ease to some degree, people out of the industry by paying them compensation for grubbing their trees out and for entering into a covenant with the State government concerned not to replant that area to fruit for, I think, a period of 10 years. But there was a very strict means test on this scheme. Only the growers who were destitute were able to avail themselves of the scheme. In 1972 Labor promised to ease the means test so that the acreage could be further reduced in areas of over-production in my State of Victoria. But nothing was done about that during Labor's term of office. 
Labor also promised the sum of $5m, part of which was to be paid as compensation to the industry for the loss of a fruit juice plant which had been set up by the Ardmona cannery in the Goulburn Valley in Victoria. The aim was to cushion the effects of the loss of export markets and to encourage the industry to diversify with a view to remaining viable. That co-operative cannery spent $2m on installing a fruit juice plant of the most modern type in the world to concentrate fruit juices. One of the things which Labor did when it got into office was to abolish the sales tax exemption for aerated waters when 5 per cent fruit juice was added. The Ardmona cannery was relying on the sales tax exemption to remain a viable operation. Then Labor said: 'All right, you have lost your viable operation because of the abolition of the exemption. We have destroyed your industry. We have $5m here and we will do something about it.' Nothing further was heard of that $5m during the whole of the term of office of the Labor Government. If anyone is seeking to lay the blame for the position in which this industry finds itself I suggest that he looks at the other side of the chamber as well as at this side of the chamber. The problems of the industry stem from a number of factors, not only from the fact that it was encouraged by government to produce. 
I am glad that  Senator Walsh  realises that one of the basic causes of the present situation is the high wage structure in Australia. Honourable senators on my side of the chamber believe in the principle of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. I am not suggesting that the wage rates paid in this industry are not consistent with those paid in other industries but I agree with  Senator Walsh  that the high wage structure is one of the major reasons why this industry is unable to compete with similar industries in other countries. This fact applies not only to the fruit industry. It applies to a great deal of primary, secondary and tertiary industry in Australia today. Until the wage earners in the community realise that they must do a fair day's work for a fair day's pay, I am afraid that not only this industry but other industries in Australia will have a great deal of trouble. The honourable senator referred to  Sir John  McEwen. He gave him high marks for his perception of the problem which was to be caused by Britain's entry into the Common Market but then he said he gave him low marks because that government encouraged production. I have already dealt with that matter effectively and exhaustively so I will not spend more time on it. 
As I said, this is a timely Bill. I want the Senate to realise that the Government is giving the canneries a loan- it is not a gift or a subsidy- at an interest rate of 10 per cent, to enable them to remain viable in the short term only. I congratulate the Government for its wisdom in realising the importance of the fruit industry to Australia. It is a labour intensive industry and, as I have already stated, that is part of the cause of its troubles. A high labour factor is involved in the industry from the time the fruit is planted until it appears on the supermarket shelf. Many people are engaged in spraying orchards, pruning trees, picking the fruit and processing the fruit. Others are engaged in the tinplate industry and various other allied industries. If the industry collapsed a further grave problem would be added to the already serious problem we face in the employment situation in industry today. The Government's decision should be supported on both sides of the chamber if only to prevent an increase in the unemployment rate. No one wants to see more unemployment. 
In my maiden speech in the Senate about 4 weeks ago I dealt in great detail with the problems of the industry. I do not propose to canvass that detail again. Other matters such as Britain's entry into the European Economic Community have played a decisive part in making further trouble for the industry.  Senator Walsh  talks about the increase in production of the industry but the facts do not support what he says. Over the last three or four years there has been a drop in production of canned fruit. The industry is resigned to the fact that its major export markets have gone- I have stated some of the reasons for that and I will come to the others in a momentand is looking in the future to marketing 4 million cartons which will be taken up almost exclusively on the local market. I think that about 5 years ago the figure was 10 million cartons. It has come down progressively to a figure of just over 5 million cartons for this season. 
I think it is fair to say that the growers, the producers and the canners realise the grave problems that face them. In addition to Britain's entry in the European Economic Community, the devaluation of currency with which I dealt at length in a previous address and the freight advantages enjoyed by our competitors hinder our competition with other countries for the limited export market which is available. The previous Government, in which  Senator Wriedt  was the Minister for Agriculture, sought a report from the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Prior to 13 December that report was available but nothing had been done. At that stage the report had not been released to the industry. Immediately on assuming office the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  asked the Corporation to update the report because there was a major worsening of the situation in relation to the export market during those few short months from September to December. The producers and the canners realised in December of last year that the whole of the export market was in jeopardy. If we can believe what is reported in  The Financial Review  today, that report is now complete and available. So far as I am aware, it has not been released officially by the Minister. I think I would know if it had been released. But we are able to read about something of its contents in  The Financial Review  today. 
In the long term the future of the industry is not good. Any industry which faces decreased competition for its product cannot have a good outlook. In these times of rising cost factors on the one hand and reduced market prices on the other hand, there is only one future for such an industry and it is bleak. However, the short term assistance which is being made available by the Government under this Bill will enable the canners the proportions in which the amounts are to be paid are set out in the Schedule of the Bill- to pay the growers the balance of the money which was legally due to them for the 1974-75 season. 
Many of these growers faced grave problems. They had been paid only 40 per cent of the amount contracted to be paid for their product. Honourable senators can readily appreciate, as I have stated already, the high intensity of labour in this industry in which the producers have to pay fruit pickers, sprayers, pruners and the various other people who are employed on an orchard on a weekly or fortnightly basis. In the absence of these payments, the growers faced very grave liquidity problems. The payments to bc made under this legislation will enable them to pay their bills. I acknowledge that the producers have been carried by the patience and the tolerance of the people in the private enterprise sector in the towns and cities which this industry supports. These people realise the plight of the growers and they were prepared to wait for payment until some form of assistance became available. 
One matter that I ought to mention is that conditional on the growers accepting this payment there is to be a reduction of 15 per cent in the price paid to them. The fruit industry has a complicated formula for fixing prices. The formula is fixed by the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee. The price is included in the contract between the cannery and the grower. There is no mention of a figure in the Bill. Conditional on the growers accepting this proposal is a proposition which apparently has been agreed upon between the Government and the canneries that the grower will receive 15 per cent less than the agreed price for his product. The grower has nowhere else to go. He has to accept this and will accept it. I mention this merely to show the grave problem they face. Inflation is hitting everything. Here we have an industry which supplied a product 12 months ago. Now, those engaged in the industry are to receive 15 per cent less for their product than was anticipated in their budgets to keep them viable and developing. However, the payment will enable them to carry on. 
I return to the Australian Industry Development Corporation report which I have mentioned and which has been updated. I think there is an urgent necessity for the Minister to make that report available to the industry so that the people who are not viable in the industry- there will be a fair number of them- can be phased out of the industry and paid tree-pull compensation to pull out their trees. There is a further problem in this regard which I should mention. I refer to the depressed condition of the dairying industry in Victoria, in contradiction to what  Senator Douglas  McClelland had to say yesterday. The Victorian dairying industry is in a depressed state. Every second dairy farm in the State is for sale and there are no buyers. Under the previous tree-pull scheme back in 1971 it was a relatively simple matter, with an economic future, to convert the land from which the trees had been taken into pasture land for dairying. At that stage, I think it was being converted for beef production also because this was before the beef market had taken a downturn. But there are grave problems in this high production area of primary industry- the irrigation system and everything else involved with the industry is there. But what can be done with the land? There may be a future in the intensive cultivation of vegetables. However, there is a very grave problem facing the fruit grower who wishes to leave the industry. The growers realise that some of them will have to vacate the industry because there is no future in it for them. There has to be a reduction in acreage, particularly of pears. The growers are already facing up to this. They knew that with the change of government there would be some sort of financial assistance flowing through to them to help them with their prob-  lems.Butitwillrequiretheco-operationof  growers, canners, government and everyone in the industry to save something from the present wrecked condition in which this industry finds itself. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I rise briefly to refute certain statements relating to the dairy industry which were made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland yesterday. I know that my colleague  Senator Archer  has already referred to those statements, but because the industry is of such importance in my State and because the comments are so far from the facts I feel impelled to correct the misapprehension which may exist in some minds following the honourable senator's statement. I refer to the statement which appears at page 691 of yesterday's  Hansard.  The honourable senator was chiding the present Government for failing to take action on the report by the Industries Assistance Commission on the dairy industry, which was presented on 23 October last. He also mentioned that the New South Wales Government recently set up a committee to investigate the dairy industry. He said: 
Is it any wonder that people who are employed and engaged in the dairy industry in New South Wales are at a loss to understand why, in all these circumstances, the New South Wales Government finds it necessary to appoint a committee of inquiry into the dairy industry, particularly bearing in mind that the IAC has found- since the last report of a committee of inquiry into the dairy industry in 1960- that the industry generally is in a viable and economically sound position? This is so, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania. The dairy industry in South Australia is picking up considerably. 
In my State of Victoria conditions in the dairy industry have never been worse. In my 30 years of association with the industry I have never known farmers io attend meetings in such numbers as they have done over the past few months to protest about their situation. 
Before I conclude I would like to tell the Senate something about the problems they face. But firstly I would like to deal with what  Senator Douglas  McClelland had to say about the failure of the Government to deal with this report. In the very passage which the honourable senator himself quoted, which appears on page 690 of  HansardI  will not quote it in full; it is there for honourable senators to read- the Industries Assistance Commission report refers to a separate report which it is making on rural reconstruction. It goes on to say that in that report will be found its final recommendations in relation to what should be done to assist the industry. As was pointed out by interjections from  Senator Wright  and  Senator Withers  last night, that report is not yet available or, if it is, it has come to hand only very recently. 
The second matter concerns the New South Wales Government. I hold no brief for it as I want to speak for Victoria. But surely it is reasonable that a State government should be entitled to have its own inquiry. We know that honourable senators opposite want centralised power in Canberra and have no time for what State governments may wish to do in relation to any problem concerning the dairy industry or anything else. It is well known that if the problems of this industry are to be solved- they are grave problems- ultimately there will need to bc complementary legislation in the States to achieve a comprehensive plan which will put the industry in a sound and viable position for the future. 
I turn now to the problems of the industry in Victoria at this time. These problems are occasioned largely, although not solely, by a world glut of skim milk powder. This puts the whole of the Australian dairy industry in a state of major crisis. The world price of skim milk powder fell dramatically in 1975 and there has been no light on the horizon yet in 1976. This has caused a 30 per cent reduction in the price now being paid to Victorian and Tasmanian producers for manufacturing milk. In 1975-76 most producers supplying factories that process butter and skim milk powder have seen their milk payments slashed from 70c per lb butterfat to 50c per lb butterfat or even less. It will be appreciated that in a time of rising costs on the expenditure side of the dairy farmers' budget this reduction in price by 30 per cent puts the industry in a situation of peril, of a fight to survive. That is exactly what is happening in Victoria at the present time and also in Tasmania. 
I am pleased to say that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has intimated in the last few days that he proposes to make some monies available to the industry to cushion the effect of this problem. But if that is not done the producers will receive less for the 1976-77 season. Costs are still rising; they are not being reduced. The general inflationary trends which are present throughout industry apply of course in the dairy industry. I have here a report from J. C. McColl and Associates Pty Ltd, consultants on agriculture, the partners of which firm all hold degrees of Bachelor of Agricultural Science. They are specialists in the situation. This report was prepared for the industry. A  precis  of it appeared in tonight's Melbourne  Herald. 
Later I propose to seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  3 tables of figures from the report. The first table relates to stocks of skim milk powder and it emphasises what I have been saying about the glut in the supply. The table refers to Australia, New Zealand, the United States of America, Canada and the European Economic Community and states the position at 1 July in the years 1973, 1974 and 1975. We find that in Australia at 1 July 1973 the stocks on hand were 9800 tonnes whereas at 1 July 1975 they were 57 000 tonnes, which means that 6 times as much skim milk powder was stored in Australia in 1975. All these countries show an upward trend. I will not bore the Senate by quoting the figures in detail. They will appear in Hansard. For the EEC at 1 July 1973, 354 200 tonnes were stored and 764 900 tonnes at 1 July 1975, which is more than double the amount for 1973. The figures for all the countries show a total at 1 July 1973 of 532 300 tonnes as against 1 272 400 tonnes at 1 July 1975. So it will be appreciated from those figures that there is a major crisis in the skim milk powder section of the industry. 
It is perhaps worth looking briefly at the major factors in this buildup of stocks. There was a change in the trading position of the United States of America which suddenly discontinued butter and skim milk imports in 1974 and there was a sharp reduction in the use of skim milk powder for animal feed in the EEC associated with the decline in the beef industry. There is an enormous subsidy paid to primary industry in the European Economic Community. I will cite the position. The various support measures in 1976 are expected to be in excess of $5,500m for agriculture generally. Of this amount, $ 1,900m will be absorbed by the EEC dairying sector. So honourable senators will see that there are international problems. 
I turn now to the second of the tables to which I referred which illustrates vividly the situation of a typical dairy farmer in an irrigation area in Victoria. One has to remember when dealing with the dairying industry in Victoria that after World War II the Berne Swiss Company came from Europe to prospect the whole of Australia and New Zealand for the best area in which to operate a dairy. It chose a place called Tongala in northern Victoria. The factory there is still being operated by what is known as Nestle Co. (Aust) Ltd. Some 18 months later- I think in late 1948-the Carnation Milk Co. Pty Ltd came from America and went through exactly the same exercise and chose a place called Merrigum some 20 miles away. From that time on I and many other people in Victoria who have dealings in the dairying industry have always regarded this area as the optimum area in the Commonwealth in which to dairy. This table deals with a typical 100 cow irrigated dairy farm supplying milk for manufacture in northern Victoria for the 1975-76 season. I will deal first with the income side. The farm produces 30 000 lb of butter fat which brings 50c per lb which is now the ruling price in the co-operative factories. That gives an income figure of $15,000. Stock sales would be 20 cull cows at $25 a head, giving a figure of $500 and 60 surplus calves at $2 a head, giving a figure of $120. It is doubtful whether a farmer would receive $2 a head for the calves these days. Anyway, the gross income figure for the farm is $15,620. I will outline next the cash operating costs of this farm. Rates, administrative costs, farm insurance, repairs and maintenance to improvements amount to $1,700. Plant, which includes fuel, oil, repairs, etc., amounts to $1,800. Pasture production, which includes seeds and chemicals- $300; water rates in the irrigation area-$ 1,000; and fertiliser- $ 1 ,200; amounts to a total of $2,500. Fodder conservationthat is hay to enable the cattle to be fed during the winter months- is shown as 100 tonnes at $15 a tonne, giving a figure of $1,500. The cost of rearing 25 calves at $ 12 a calf is $300. Herd costs such as husbandry fees, veterinary fees, artificial insemination, herd tests and milking shed expenses for 100 cows at $20 a head amount to $2,000, giving a total cash operating expenditure of $9,800. The surplus to the farmer is $5,820. 
That figure of a little over $100 a week represents the residual reward for the operator's labour and management to service borrowings. The figures do not include the borrowing costs, that is, the interest on borrowed money. We all know that that can be a very significant factor on the expenditure side of running a farm. There is nothing also in the figures for depreciation and farm improvement. It is obvious that this surplus of $5,820 is quite inadequate to meet the normal living expenses of the farm operator, his wife and family without taking into consideration other factors such as the interest on borrowed money. If we assume a 15 per cent inflation rate in costs for the year 1976-77, we have a very gloomy picture. 
The third table I will seek leave of the Senate to have incorporated in  Hansard  sets out the typical dairy farm returns and costs for 1976-77. It shows gross income, cash operating costs and surplus. It gives 3 different price levels per lb for butterfat, namely, 40c per lb, 50c per lb and 70c per lb. I understand that already in Tasmania there are a number of factories which are paying a figure which is closer to 40c per lb than 50c per lb. In Victoria as of today the price has not fallen below 50c per lb. But I understand that there is some likelihood that this will happen in Victoria between now and the end of June. At all events, a farmer who receives 40c per lb for his butterfat as the basis for his gross net income will receive $12,620 for the year. His cash operating costs amount to $1 1,270 and he is left with a net surplus of $1,350. One would hardly expect a man with a wife and family to survive on such an income. Even if the farmer were on his own, it scarcely would be enough to keep him alive. Working on a price of 50c per lb for butterfat, the gross income would be $1 5,620- this was the gross income figure I cited in table 2- the cash operating costs would be $11,270 and the surplus would be $4,350. At a price of 70c per lb for butterfat, the gross income would be $21,620, the cash operating costs, which do not alter, remain at $1 1,270 and the surplus is $10,350. 
It will be appreciated from those figures that last year in Victoria no farmer engaged in dairying operations received less than 70c per lb for butterfat. The price has dropped to 50c per lb. In that case, the farmer's net income drops from $10,350 to $4,350. Yet an honourable senator opposite has the temerity to profess in the Senate to be an authority on the dairying industry in Victoria and says that all is well with the dairying industry. I make these few brief comments to set the record straight. Earlier this afternoon, there was a debate on a Bill which dealt with the fruit industry which is in a deplorable position. I can say only that the dairying industry is also in a deplorable position but not quite as bad as the fruit industry. I share  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's hope that the Federal Government and the State governments in co-operation with the industry will come up with a comprehensive plan which will enable those people in the industry who are viable to retain their livelihood. I think it is vital to the future of Australia that this industry be retained. It is one of our great primary industries. We would see whole areas in various States devastated if this industry were allowed to go under. I trust that before very long we will have the final report from the Industries Assistance Commission and that the State governments will take action to co-operate. I hope that the industry itself will co-operate and that the people who have worked so hard in this industry over the years will be able to survive. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Senator Tehan,  do I understand that you want to incorporate some tables in  Hansard? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate 3 tables in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The tables read as follows)- 

<graphic href="067232197603244_44_1.jpg"></graphic>

DAIRY FARM CASH BUDGET 
The calculation of a cash flow budget for a typical 100 cow irrigated dairy farm supplying milk for manufacturing in Northern Victoria for the 1 975-76 season is set out below. 

<graphic href="067232197603244_45_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="067232197603244_45_3.jpg"></graphic>

I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. He will bc aware of the difficult position in which the ball bearing factory of SKF Australia (Sales) Pty Ltd in Echuca in Victoria has been placed by the Cabinet's acceptance of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation that quotas be lifted on the importation of Echuca type ball bearings. This factory is the only complete manufacturer of ball bearings in Australia. The company is concerned that the collection and publication of import statistics is very slow and that there could be a flood of ball bearings, similar to that which occurred in 1974 and early 1975, without the Government or the industry being aware of it for some months. Can the Minister take some action to improve the position regarding the collection and publication of these statistics? 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce will be aware of the abolition of the aerated waters and fruit juice sales tax exemption scheme in 1973 by the previous Labor Government. He will also be aware that the previous Government made available an amount of $5m to be paid to those manufacturers who were disadvantaged by the abolition of the exemption, such payments to be made on the recommendation of the Special Committee on Apple and Pear Juice Concentrate on which there was appropriate departmental representation. My question is: Can the Minister advise when the payment of $138,000 recommended by the committee some time ago and due to be paid to the Ardmona Fruit Producers Ltd at Mooroopna in Victoria will be made? In due course will the Minister advise also how much of the sum of $5m remains unexpended and supply some detail as to the sums already expended from the fund? 
-These 5 Bills, namely the States Grants (Universities) 
Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Amendment Bill, the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, the States Grants (Advanced Education) Amendment Bill and the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Amendment Bill are part of a package deal covering further federal grants for 1976 in the post-secondary field of education. Of course, this includes universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges. I, with others, commend the Bills as a further instalment towards the essential funding of these various institutions. As the legislation is supported by both sides of the Senate I propose to make only a few brief comments. I make these comments because I think the time is opportune, when we have these 5 cognate Bills covering the whole field of post-secondary education, to look critically, if not in depth, at the whole scheme and to suggest a few guidelines for the future, if possible, before the next triennium. 
I think that some of these matters can be adjusted when the program is looked at over the next 3 years. The first matter to which I refer briefly is the matter of students from Asian countries, particularly those countries to the near north. These students come to our universities and they have been doing so for some years now. This is an excellent idea as it assists less privileged people. Apart from this scheme in its initial stages such students would not have had the opportunity to reach the higher fields of education. But I think that now we should look at this matter in the future on the basis that we may well be reaching the time where institutions could be set up in their own countries. It is true that students have gone back to their own countries and other countries and have practised their various professions and skills after acquiring qualifications in Australia. But the long term aim- I think it would assist these people more if we had an ultimate aim- ought to be to set up the necessary institutions of advanced education in their own countries. 
I put this on both financial and social grounds. Financially, our commitment would be the same. I envisage that the money which is spent herefigures are available on how much it costs to produce a graduate in various faculties at every university in Australia- would be spent in setting up colleges of advanced education or universities in other countries. More people in those countries could then be educated than are educated now. There is also a social factor. Whilst it is desirable that we intermingle with our near neighbours and the people in the Asian countries and see their viewpoint, there is considerable domestic upset when students from these countries have to leave their homes and come here for courses of three or four years, or whatever it may be. I suggest that this is an area at which the authorities responsible for designing the future of this scheme might look, if possible with a view perhaps to initiating some moves in the next triennium with a view to getting something mov- inginthe1980s,ifnotbefore. 
The second matter at which I suggest we ought to look is the situation of people after graduation.  Senator Button  yesterday made a comment with which I agree. I might not put my comment as strongly as he did. He said: 
One suspects, without knowing, that universities may already be training people in Australia for professions which will no longer exist in 5 or 10 years time. 
My comment might not be as bold as that. I say that there should be a constant watch to determine whether in many fields of endeavour we are in fact training too many people who, when they graduate, cannot find a position in the commercial world. Perhaps this is the fault of the system; but, speaking as a lawyer who has practised in Victoria for some 30 years now, I have never known the legal profession in that State to be so overcrowded. 
I accept the interjection. I was about to say that I think what is true of Victoria in the field of law is true of the whole of the Commonwealth. 
Perhaps if more people underwent technical training we would get them. I do not know that there are many vacancies anyway. As  Senator Mulvihill  knows, there are many unemployed people in the community. I have mentioned the legal profession. The same applies to graduate engineers, graduate architects and graduates in various other fields. 
It applies to geologists. I thank  Senator Baume.  For many of these people coming off the production line through the universities there is no employment. I think the situation is of double concern when we remember that all of these people are now funded by government. I accept and endorse the principle of free university education. What I am saying is that we, as a Government and as a Parliament dealing with public funds, have a greater duty to see that we are moving in the right direction. If we turn out too many graduates, perhaps we are not moving in the right direction. This is another matter at which I suggest the authorities should look in the next triennium, if not before. Certainly, the individuals who will take up these courses will look at the situation. If I had a child about to embark on a law course in Victoria or, as I gather from interjections, in other States, I certainly would have grave doubts that it would be prudent to do so. 
The report on population policy which we received yesterday from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar,  also gives us food for thought in this regard. Honourable senators will be familiar with the report. I do not want to quote from it. With the net immigration loss last year mentioned in the report and with the population declining at the rate set out in the report, one wonders whether in the 1980s there will be enough students to go to university. These are all matters of grave concern to all of us. I stress again that because we are dealing with public funds we have a grave duty to see that they are not misused to a point where there are no students available to take up courses in certain professions and gain employment after they qualify. 
It is a matter for the authorities to look at. I feel that it is one of the things that can be looked at. Of course, on the other side of the coin we have a changing front in education. With the age of the computer, the technicalities of local government and the problems of town planning and the environment, there is need for new expertise and skill. There may be a case for introducing new faculties in some of these areas in either colleges of advanced education or universities. That is another field at which we might look with profit. 
I share the concern expressed in the other place by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  in a speech on these Bills. I think a similar concern was expressed by  Senator Button  as to the direction in which we are going in some of the colleges of advanced education. Perhaps there is a tendency to widen the area of these colleges at the expense of the original plan for which they were designed. There are a number of existing faculties. If we introduce new courses they should not be at the expense of existing courses. I think there are 2 considerations: Firstly, is there really a demand for the new faculty which is sought to be established in a college of advanced education? If that is satisfied, the second question is: Will the resources be spread too thinly if new disciplines are opened up in colleges of advanced education? 
Finally, I refer to research. I think that research ought to be confined to universities for the reason which I trust I have made clear to the Senate- that simply not enough funds are available under the existing arrangements to allow for proper research to be carried out in colleges of advanced education. I support the comments of  Senator Jessop  about the need for research into fields such as solar and nuclear energy. I do suggest however that this is not the province of colleges of advanced education. 
I endorse also the suggestion of  Senator Jessop  that a national research council be established. I think that is an excellent suggestion and one which bears close examination. At the moment, research into various fields of endeavour is spread, as  Senator Jessop  has said, throughout two or three departments. One of those is the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I think it would be beneficial if we had a comprehensive body, such as a national research council, to co-ordinate all matters of research. This, of course, would include existing research being done by universities and other educational institutions. I suggest to the Minister that in the years which lie ahead he might examine the matters that I have raised. I commend the Bills to the Senate. I trust that some of these matters will be examined before the program for the next triennium is fixed. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen the Press report in the Melbourne  Herald  of Saturday last in which it is stated that there is an annual rate of upwards of 1000 school girls in Victoria between the ages of 12 years and 17 years undergoing abortion operations? The article goes on to say that many doctors and social workers are concerned at the lack of statistics and they urge that abortion should be made notifiable to enable the extent of the problem to be realised and to enable legislators to act. The article further mentions that the Federal Department of Health has no statistics which indicate how many abortions are being charged to Medibank, because the abortion figures cannot easily be separated from gynaecology operations covered by the benefits schedule. The author of the article further states that, for an expenditure of $5,000 on a further special print of the Medibank computer, the necessary statistics could be obtained. I ask: In view of the disquieting situation disclosed by this newspaper article, and assuming that the matters stated in it are correct, will the Minister consider the installation of the necessary addition to the computer to enable it to give separate figures in relation to abortion so that both State and Federal governments can look at the various programs, educational and otherwise, which can be undertaken to rectify this alarming situation? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, concerns the disastrous strike of storemen and packers over the handling of wool bales which has now proceeded for 5 weeks and which is affecting not only the producers of wool but also all areas of the economy directly or indirectly connected with the wool industry. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the present position in relation to the strike and whether the Government or the Minister can exercise any initiative to resolve the dispute? 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware that the Melbourne office of the Department of Social Security has instructed the Wangaratta and Shepparton offices in Victoria to reject all unemployment benefit requests by owner-operator dairy and fruit farmers even though these applicants have passed the Commonwealth Employment Service work test as being genuinely available for work? Is the Minister aware also that this instruction is harsher in operation than any previously applied by these offices and currently by other offices in Victoria? 
Will the Minister instruct the Victorian office to accept the Commonwealth Employment Service work test criteria and thus allow the income test to be applied to determine eligibility for benefit if employment is not available? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, relates to the noxious weed known as water hyacinth. I refer to the large infestation of water hyacinth in the river system in western New South Wales and the possibility of the weed eventually entering the Murray River in Victoria and South Australia where it could cause inestimable damage. I ask the Minister whether scientists overseas have discovered successful eradication or control measures and whether like methods are being, or can be, adopted in Australia. I further ask him whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is engaged in research into the water hyacinth and, if so, with what results. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: In view of the Minister's recent statement that the number of letters sent by post has fallen since the introduction of the 1 8c postage rate and because many commercial institutions, including banks, are now using alternative means of communications, will the Minister arange for a public inquiry to be held into all aspects of postal services before any further increase in postal charges becomes effective? 
-The Minister for Social Security will have read in the Victorian Press at the weekend of the criticism by the Victorian Minister of Agriculture of the uneven administration of unemployment benefits for dairy farmers who are without income and who have made themselves available, without success, for full-time employment. The Minister will also be aware of the statement at the weekend by  Mr Bill  Pyle, the  President  of the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria, about the harsh application of the regulations which is causing grave hardship to the people affected. Is the Minister able to inform the Senate of any Government decision on this matter? 
I rise to support the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1976 and in doing so I stress the importance of education to this nation. Education is now very big business in the economy of the country, the total vote being 10 per cent of the Budget outlay. The figure, I think, for 1975-76 is $l,908m which is larger than the defence vote and, I think, almost as large as the Medibank vote. I think that the importance of education to the nation is underlined by the fact that teachers and parents came here in such large numbers on Thursday last to press their case. They came from every State and from the Territories. I think that education is a topic which is very alive in the minds of the people of Australia today. So it is that we have this Bill. 
Before proceeding to deal with the Bill I refer briefly to a couple of matters which were raised by the previous  speaker, Senator Wriedt.  I think that he was somewhat critical of the statement made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech that decentralisation of decision-making is desirable to permit maximum responsiveness and local involvement in education. Might I suggest that we on this side of the chamber like to ensure that decision making in government is shared by the people who are close to the particular issue and who have their ears to the ground in the States and in the areas where the action is taking place? I think it is true to say that in education, as in other fields, it is not always possible in the rarefied atmosphere of Canberra to get to the meat of a situation or to have ears to the ground to know just what the people who are affected in a particular situation are thinking and doing and what their real requirements are. The statements made by the Minister in his second reading speech are consistent with our federalism policy and we on this side of the chamber stand by those statements. 

 Senator Wriedt referred also to the Schools Commission. I think that others on this side of the chamber recognise its importance. We do pay tribute to the work of the Schools Commission since it was founded as an independent and impartial body with the necessary expertise to advise the government of the day on these very vexed and complex problems which are arising in this very wide field of education. 
Turning now to the Bill, this legislation does redeem the undertaking given by the caretaker Government in November last that there would be no reduction in financial assistance to schools as defined in the Bill as announced by the Labor Government. So it is fair to assume- and I think it has been stated-that the Bill is supported on both sides of the chamber. Of course the provisions of the Bill are consistent with the decision of the previous Government that the new triennium should not operate for the year 1976. Whilst we acknowledge the dramatic growth of the education budget during the first 3 years which, I think, motivated the previous Government as a matter of economic necessity to abandon the thoughts of a further triennium and to limit the expenditure to the year 1976 only, I think it is fair to say in a debate on a Bill such as this that the triennium system must be reintroduced. I think that this point has been stressed by the fact that so many teachers and parents were here last Thursday. 
When we look at the various fields of educationtertiary, secondary and primary- we realise that it is fairly impossible to try to live from year to year. We are dealing with a subject in which vast amounts of public money are involved in buildings and institutions, particularly in the tertiary field with which this Bill does not deal. Planning has to be done for the engaging of staff, arranging for buildings, and the setting up of schools. As I said, I think that we have to aim at restoring the triennium system- to programming for 3 years- so that the government of the day, the people involved in education and the citizens of Australia will know where they are going in this very wide field. 
Education in Australia today faces a challenge. There have been many changes, some of which have been posed by the Schools Commission. I think that a balance has to be struck between the basics, such as the 3 Rs- reading, writing and arithmetic. I and other people in the employment field who over the years have engaged in employing secondary and even tertiary students are somewhat concerned at the fall in the standards of some of the essentials of what I think are properly termed a 'basic education'. I think that this bears some investigation when we look at some of the innovations in the programs that are being posed. I think that it ought to be said that the basics must be preserved, although it is recognised that there is a need for new methods, new curricula and innovations in various fields. One of the more exciting innovations is that of more parent and teacher involvement in the day-to-day educational process. The tendency is to involve the parent and pupil as much as the teacher in the educational process. 
This Bill gives greater flexibility in the transfer of funds from one area of expenditure to another. Greater freedom is given to the States by the modification of the provisions relating to expenditure so that major items of expenditure only, both in the case of government and nongovernment schools, will need to be reported upon and expenditures which might be described as ' minor only ' will be made at the discretion of the States. This again, I think, is a move in the right direction because of the large expenditure in the education budget. It is an old saying that if you look after the pennies the pounds will look after themselves. The point I make is that the Minister has a very large portfolio and I think it is quite proper that the States should be given some discretion in various areas. Of course, the recommendations of the Schools Commission have to be balanced against this. I think that the Minister is concerned and ought to be concerned to see that the recommendations of the Schools Commission are carried out by the States. Some fears have been expressed recently by certain people in my State of Victoria, particularly in the field of disadvantaged schools, which is another area dealt with in this legislation and relates to one of the innovations recommended by the Schools Commission. If I might say so, it is laudable that steps have been taken to recognise that there are disadvantaged schools in the system. They are not only in the cities, of course, but are found also in the country areas of Australia. I think it is fair to say that the disadvantages suffered by such schools in the country areas are different from those in the city. 
Concern has been expressed by people who are interested and who hold office in organisations in Victoria that although the Schools Commission can make firm recommendations the State Minister for Education might not necessarily carry them out. I think the Minister for Education is aware of that sort of situation and will take the steps necessary to ensure that when the Schools Commission makes a recommendation in respect of particular amounts of money for disadvantaged schools, in-service training or some of the other aspects covered by the legislation the funds do not become buried in the general revenue of the Education Department of a State but are used for the purpose for which the Schools Commission has recommended them. 
-Senator Button, I was speaking earlier of the importance of the Schools Commission in relation to education, and I think that what I have just said emphasises the point that it is not much good setting up an expert commission to make recommendations if somewhere along the line, particularly in the States, the recommendations are lost sight of. I am simply making the point that in this area there are some important innovations, some exciting new concepts, which to a large degree have emanated from the Schools Commission. In some sense, new ground is being broken in the implementation of policy and the provision of funds, and there is a challenge to the Department of Education and to the Minister in this new area, to ensure that the moneys are spent on the purposes for which they were allotted. Again, while the declarations relating to disadvantaged schools and the classes of people who will be eligible to take part in in-service training remain with the Minister, he will exercise those powers after consultation with the State Ministers. As I have said, both those concepts are of recent origin and constitute developments which, generally speaking, have the support of most people. They are still being developed, and I think we should pay tribute to the Schools Commission for its valuable work in this and other fields. 
As I said before, the Bill is one which ought to be supported on both sides of the House because, in effect, it carries out the Budget proposals of the previous Government. In conclusion might I express the hope that there will not be a recurrence of the situation which the Government has faced in 1976, when expenditure over the previous 3 years had been of such magnitude, perhaps having been undertaken without regard to what might follow, that it was necessary to budget for one year only. I trust that in the Budget deliberations the Minister will be able to look ahead to a period of 3 years, if not immediately following the Budget then perhaps at some time during 1977. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware of the depressed state of both the beef and dairy sections of the cattle industry. I now bring to his attention a report in this morning's Melbourne  Sun  relating to the mass slaughter and burial of no less than 500 head of cattle at Tongala in northern Victoria. It is being organised by the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria and is scheduled to take place next Monday. It follows on bids ranging from 30c a head to a maximum of $2 a head for cattle at the weekly cattle auction sale last Tuesday. I now ask the Minister whether an urgent investigation can be made with a view to ascertaining whether some substantial increase in the food component of the foreign aid bill can be effected, having regard to the large surplus of meat and skim milk powder presently available in Australia and the urgent need for these commodities in a number of countries to which our aid is directed. 
I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government implement the June, 1975 Report of the Schools Commission so that: 
1 ) The present level of Federal Government Education Expenditure is increased to the level recommended by the Schools Commission. 
The role of the Schools Commission as an independent statutory authority free to make its own assessment of the needs of Australian Education is maintained. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measures to interfere with the Schools Commission. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Because he probably has not read the newspaper report, I direct his attention to statements appearing today in the Melbourne  Age  and the  Canberra Times  to the effect that Australia has secured permission from Indonesia for International Red Cross to resume operations in East Timor. Can the Minister say whether those reports are accurate? If they are accurate, will he arrange for the relief being organised by various persons and organisations in Australia for those in need in East Timor to be channelled through International Red Cross? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Has any decision been taken about giving further assistance to dairy farmers by underwriting the price of skim milk powder after 1 July, when the present underwriting ends and a new production year begins? The Minister will be aware that the report of  Sir John  Crawford, dealing with the long term future of the industry, is not expected to be available until August. If no decision has yet been taken to extend the underwriting beyond 1 July, will the Minister arrange for urgent consideration of the matter so that assistance can continue until the report of  Sir John  Crawford is available? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, relates to the Australia-wide 24-hour stoppage of trains which occurred yesterday. In view of the major disruption to the economy resulting from such stoppages and the hardship inflicted on those unfortunate Australians who rely exclusively on rail transport for urgent medical or hospital appointments, will the Minister take steps to prevent any similar stoppages which cause so much inconvenience, loss and hardship to so many Australians? 
-The ministerial statement which is at present being debated by the Senate is the most important document which has confronted the Senate thus far in the life of the Thirtieth Parliament. In opening my remarks I wish to refer to a short passage from my maiden speech in the Senate. It appears on page 214 of  Hansard  of25 February 1976 and it states: 
There are, of course, grave problems confronting the nation at this time. I suppose one must say that the 2 greatest problems we are facing are the twin evils of inflation and unemployment which are stalking the nation and ravaging the economy to such an extent that it is a matter of urgency for all of us to apply ourselves to the mammoth task of halting those evils and getting the country back on its feet. 

 Senator Gietzelt has just told the Senate that the aim of the Labor Government during its term of office was to produce a better life for the ordinary people of Australia. The people of Australia passed judgment on the performance of that Government on 13 December last. I can only say that the Labor Government's efforts, as history has proved, were a dismal failure. 
Tonight we are debating a package which is designed to get the nation back on its feet. In the short time at my disposal tonight I want to deal in detail with the various measures which the Government proposes to achieve this objective. The first and most important of these proposals is tax indexation. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in the other place, this is a reform of far reaching importance, because from the time we have had the affliction of inflation in this nation- it has been too long as all honourable senators will agree- whenever there has been a rise in wages the main beneficiary has been the Commissioner of Taxation. I think that this point has been vividly illustrated in a number of areas. It was brought home to me some time ago when a university professor in Victoria received an increase in salary.  His  salary was being subsidised by one-third by the Commonwealth Government. By the time the increase in salary and the increased tax had been worked out, the Commonwealth finished up getting more money back than it was putting in. That is the sort of situation which occurs under the existing system. 
To define tax indexation briefly, it simply means that there is no increase in the tax rate when additional income accrues to the taxpayer. Because  Senator Gietzelt,  in particular, has some difficulty in grasping the principles of the Government's proposals I think they are worth repeating.  Senator Gietzelt  said that our proposals will not put more money into the pockets of consumers. I repeat the words in the statement as reported at page 1 8 10 of  Hansard  of 20 May: 
Take a person who had a taxable income of $10,000 in 1975- 76. In this case the marginal rate of tax for 1975-76 is 35c in the dollar on the amount of income between $5,000 and $10,000. If the same person had an income of $ 1 1,300 in 1976- 77, that is, an increase of 13 per cent, the margin rate on the extra $1,300 would, without indexation, be 45c in the dollar. 
That is because the present rate for incomes over $10,000 is 45c in the dollar. The statement continues: 
With indexation the rate on the extra $1,300 will stay at 35c thus reducing tax on it by $ 1 30. 
The simple fact is that that will mean that the taxpayer has $130 a year more in his pocket. It will mean that he has $130 more to spend. A number of people have said to me in recent times and in not so recent times on this question of tax indexation that it is what is in the pay packet that ones takes home that matters, that that is what the average Australian looks at. The tax indexation proposal is an attempt by the Government to give every Australian taxpayer who is on a rising income more money in his pocket. Unfortunately one of the facts of life with inflation is that almost every taxpayer, apart from the primary producer, is on a rising income. 
I am coming to the question of endowment. I will deal with the question of endowment if the honourable senator will allow me to continue. The increased endowment payment will give more money to the average Australian, too. 
Before I leave tax indexation I want to reaffirm the facts about take-home pay. Despite what our friends opposite say- they can argue about this whenever and wherever they like- tax indexation means more take-home pay for the Australian worker. 
I will deal with Medibank, too. We also propose an increase from $400 to $500 in the rebate for a spouse, a daughterhousekeeper or a housekeeper. That is another incentive and will mean more take-home pay. The sole parent rebate is to be increased from $200 to $350. Indexation applies to rebates for certain other dependants, including invalid relatives, parents and parents-in-law. 
Although I was proposing to deal with them anyway, ibr  Senator O  'Byrne's benefit I turn to the family allowances. I congratulate the Government for recognising the family as the basic unit of society. Our Government stands for the preservation of the family. 

 - Senator Keeffe is not easy to fool. In respect of family allowances the Government has dealt generously with all people in Australia on low incomes, including Aborigines. The aid goes to the area of greatest need. Although this has been said before, I want to say it again because people such as  Senator 
O'Byrne do not understand it. If  Senator O'Byrne  will listen I will explain to him that those in need get the real benefit under this scheme. We concede that the taxation deduction for children has been lost to the taxpayer. However, if the Labor Party had been aware of the advantages of this reform it would have introduced it. It is a matter of some comment that it did not do so. This reform is benefiting the very people who the Labor Party says are its supportersthe people on low incomes, the underprivileged and the people in greatest need. 
The plain fact is that the taxation rebate is worth nothing to the man on $100 a week because he is non-taxable anyway. I will not read all the figures, as they are recorded in  Hansard;  but I refer to the taxpayer on $ 100 a week. Under the family allowances his wife- I agree that she is the person to whom it ought to go- will receive in respect of her 4 children $20.50 a week instead of $5.75. If the husband is on the breadline which, I suppose, today we would call $100 a week, the rebate is no good to him; so in terms of hard cash that family will be $15 a week better off. Yet we have  Senator Gietzelt  saying that this reform will not put more money into the pockets of consumers. The figures show that 300 000 Australian families will be better off under this proposal. They include Aboriginal families and families who are on incomes of $ 100 a week or on the so-called minimum wage or slightly above it. Families with 6 children will be $23 a week better off, which means that the family with $100 a week coming into the household will have a further $23 or 23 per cent more money coming in. Of course, not all families have 6 children but every one of those 300 000 families will be better off. There will be more money to spend. Yet  Senator Gietzelt  had the temerity to say that a man with 10 children would be worse off under this scheme. He is no longer in the chamber - 
On his arithmetic. I thank  Senator Wright.  There is another important factor in the package deal proposed by this legislation, and that is that it will stimulate the economy. It is notorious that Australians with families spend their money; they do not put it away. As a result, our Government has the hope and expectation that these measures will stimulate the economy. 
The third important matter in this package deal is Medibank. We have heard a great deal about Medibank and we will hear a lot more about it. There are 2 things I would like to say, and I would like  Senator Keeffe  to listen. It ought to be stated that there is no way in which the Australian economy or any other economy can survive without some form of contributory scheme. Labor thought it was in Utopia for 3 years, but the people of Australia brought it back to reality in December last. A cost of $2,000m is quoted in respect of Medibank. That is 6.4 per cent of Budget expenditure. We cannot spend the whole of the revenue on Medibank, particularly when the people of Australia- I am not talking about the people who will still receive Medibank - 
-That is all right. The people of Australia in the pre-Medibank days were accustomed to contributing to friendly societies, hospital benefit associations and so forth for this kind of cover. Even in those days the person who did not contribute was like the man who drives an uninsured motor car. He risked his assets. Any prudent person insured himself and paid the cost of insurance. He was prepared to pay for it. 
I am coming to that. Fortunately, I would say that everybody in this chamber could afford to pay, but there are certain Australians who cannot afford it and they will be looked after. 
If the honourable senator will listen to me he will learn that they will not have to pay any more than they pay now by way of tax. The man on $ 100 a week will be no worse off. The second point I want to make is that Medibank facilities will still be available to every Australian. It is true that there will be options - 
Options. Any Australian who wishes to remain in Medibank will be perfectly free to do so, and the Government will look after him. As I said earlier, a health scheme has to be contributory. I do not know how our friends opposite expected to pay for Medibank without a levy, unless that is why they had such a huge deficit. They embarked on schemes without looking at how they would pay for them. In the long run, when the Government spends money the taxpayer pays and it does not matter very much whether he pays by way of a contribution or levy or through general revenue, because the money has to come from somewhere. Our 
Government is looking after the poor, the underprivileged and those who cannot afford to make a contribution, but it is saying also that those on an income of over $9,000 a year will be required to make a contribution. As I have said, they can either make that contribution and stay in Medibank or they can opt to go into a medical benefits organisation and thus have the hospital and the doctor of their choice. This gives them the freedom of choice which is implicit in the philosophy which we on this side of the chamber espouse. In providing that freedom of choice we are doing no more than we promised the electors of Australia on 1 3 December that we would do. The  Age  newspaper set out the costs today. I do not think that they are very frightening to anyone. The basic medical cover plus free standard ward hospital care costs 2.5 per cent of taxable income to a maximum of $5.80 a week if a person stays in Medibank. The basic medical cover plus intermediate ward care in a public hospital costs 2.5 per cent. 
All right, if the honourable senator is prepared to have these figures incorporated in  Hansard  I would be happy to do so,  Mr President.  But I do think that the figures bear repeating. The point I want to make is that in an attempt to frighten the people of Australia all sorts of incorrect statements are being made about what Medibank is going to cost. The contributory system will cost them basically no more than they were paying before Medibank was introduced. I continue with the figures quoted in today's  Age  newspaper. Basic medical cover plus intermediate ward care in a public hospital will cost 2.5 per cent of taxable income plus about $2.80 a week for a family, payable to a private health fund. Basic medical cover plus private ward care in a public hospital, which would be enough to cover some private hospital ward care, will cost 2.5 per cent of taxable income plus about $4 a week. If a person were to opt out of Medibank this coverage would cost a little over $8 a week. 
The final category applies to basic medical cover plus private hospital cover for charges of up to $86 a day. This is the fee charged in Victoria now. I am not aware of the figure for other States but one must be realistic and realise that today medical services cost money. Wages have escalated by 100 per cent and the cost of all other services in hospitals have escalated, so this is a figure which is applicable today. Within that category if a person stays in Medibank it will cost him 2.5 per cent of taxable income plus about $5.60 a week or, if he opts out of Medibank, $9.50 to $10 a week. So if any parliamentarian wants to opt out of Medibank it will cost him something like $500 a year for the best medical service he can get in Australia- the medical service of his choice. I do not think that anyone could complain about that. 
Finally, in the time allotted to me, I wish to say a few words about education. I want to congratulate the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on the details of his proposals which were disclosed in his statement to the Senate. We heard  Senator Wriedt  saying: 'The Minister is opting out on education'. Nothing could be further from the truth. In a difficult financial climate- in a tight budgetary situation- the Minister for Education has produced a remarkable document which actually increases the expenditure on education above the expenditure of the previous Government on education. The important thing about the education program is that we will be returning to triennial funding. We will have a triennial program on a rolling basis as distinct from the fixed basis which existed prior to 1976. Of course, our friends on the other side of the chamber when in government finished up in as bad a situation in respect of education as they did in other areas. They had to opt for a single year program in 1976; they could not go on with the triennial program. The Minister has now given us a triennial program. 
Having sat on a government education committee in recent weeks and having heard the views of the people of the Schools Commission and of other experts in the field of education I want to say that all these people indicated that they considered the triennial system to be the only one. They considered the rolling triennial system to be good because it preserves some elasticitysome provision for changing circumstances in various courses. It is important for an education program to be for 3 years because there cannot be a stop-go POliCY from year to year in education. The fact is that there will be an increase in real terms of $47m in expenditure by the education commissions in 1 977. 1 do not have the time to cover the detail canvassed by the Minister. It is only under triennial funding that educational institutions can engage in the planning which is necessary to ensure the efficient utilisation of resources over the whole field of education. I commend the statement to the Senate as a major step and as a first instalment towards putting Australia back on its feet. 
I direct the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry to the fact that following the recent shooting and burial of several hundred head of dairy cattle in Victoria there has been a violent upturn in the auction ..ale price of chopper cows in the various markets throughout the State. In fact, cattle which previously could not be sold for more than $2 a head are commanding prices of $20 and upwards. In view of the uncertainty in the market which was in evidence even prior to the events mentioned, will the Minister give consideration to having an investigation made to see whether any action can be taken to restore and maintain stability in the market? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the new and increased family allowances which, following on the existing system of child endowment, will be paid to the mother of the child or children. Can the Minister clarify the position in relation to the payment of the newenefits to the father of the child or children where the father has actual and legal custody and maintains the child or children? Will the payment under the new scheme go. to the father in these circumstances? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and relates to the conversion of manual to automatic telephones in country areas. Is the Minister aware of the grave hardship which this process involves for subscribers who happen to reside outside the radius to be served by the new automatic exchange? Is he aware, in particular, of a number of farmers who are only 8  lA  miles from the new automatic exchange at Donald in Victoria and who have been denied connection to that exchange but have been connected to a small country exchange at Wooroonooke, a similar distance away? The hardship falls into 2 categories, that created because they are outside the radius fixed for either exchange and are each required to pay in excess of $100 to be connected to the automatic exchange and because the telephone communication with their normal business centre of Donald is by way of trunk line connection and not local call. Will the Minister investigate the situation with a view to ensuring that subscribers to an existing manual service can be transferred to an automatic exchange without individual financial contribution? 
-The Senate is debating cognately a group of 6 Bills, all of which implement matters within the portfolio of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  which were foreshadowed in the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  which was debated in the Senate last week. Before proceeding with what I have to say, I think I ought to deal with some of the statements made by  Senator Grimes,  who led for the Opposition, and by  Senator Melzer,  who followed him. Confusion is a word which has loomed large in the statements that have fallen from the lips of those on the other side of the chamber. Before we go any further, I think it is worth looking at what the Minister had to say. I join issue with  Senator Grimes  at the outset. There is no attempt by the Government or by anyone on this side of the House to destroy or dismantle Medibank. We are not seeking to do that, and I say that to the people of Australia who are listening to this broadcast. We support Medibank. For  Senator Grimes'  benefit, I will refer to what the Minister said.  Mr Hunt  stated that the Government had endorsed the principle that every Australian citizen must be protected against medical and hospital costs. In modifying the operations of Medibank, the Government had ensured that this basic principle was upheld. Every Australian citizen would be able to exercise his right to remain in Medibank. There would be access to health care for everybody because cover for medical and hospital costs would be assured. There will be no means test at the point of service,  Mr Hunt  said. Medibank will be retained. I do not think there could be a more definite or positive or clear statement than that. Honourable senators opposite who talk about the destruction and dismantling of Medibank are not dealing with the facts of what the Government has proposed. 
I remind the Senate that these measures will take effect from 1 October, so there is time for people to look at them and assess them. I suggest that the only confusion that exists has been generated by honourable senators opposite who have spoken in this debate. I point out that 70 per cent of people in Australia stayed in the private funds when Medibank was introduced by the previous Government. I also wish to refer briefly to  Senator Grimes'  statement about hospital beds in Victoria. Under Medibank beds are reserved for public patients certainly in every country hospital in Victoria. The fact is that a person who comes in as a public patient has an equal chance of admission with a private or an intermediate patient. 
-I have been on the board of a hospital for 28 years and I know what I am talking about. Dealing with the points made by  Senator Melzer,  who extolled the virtues of Medibank, let me say that no attempt is being made by the Government to force people out of Medibank. I have referred to the Minister's statement, and the facts are that the Government is supporting and maintaining the system. If we concede for the moment that private hospital fund fees are going to be above the fees of Medibank, people will stay in Medibank. People are not fools. They will shop around and take the cheaper deal. If it is cheaper for them to stay in Medibank they will stay there, and many of them will.  Senator Melzer  also dealt with the 73 private health funds and their staff. Those funds are all in existence now. As I have said, 70 per cent of the people stayed in the private funds, and the situation of those funds will not be greatly different from what it is now or what it was before Medibank began. There has been a serious attempt to confuse the people of Australia and to draw red herrings across the trail.  Senator Melzer  made the statement, with which I join issue, that people could be without cover. The fact is that they cannot be without cover. They will be in either Medibank or a private fund. If they are not in a private fund they are automatically in Medibank, and they are automatically in Medibank until they opt out into a private fund, even though there is no waiting time. If a person in Medibank wishes to opt out, it is going to cost him 2 months premiums to opt out. It is going to cost him something to get out of Medibank, and I suggest that that will be a deterrent to people opting out of Medibank. I repeat, and I think it is important that the people of Australia should know, that everyone will still be covered and no one will be forced out of Medibank. On the contrary, many people are going to stay in Medibank, including  Senator Grimes  on $20,000 a year. 
The reason this levy has been introduced, and I suggest to the Senate that it is probably the main reason for the change, is the cost of the existing system. The levy has to be looked at in the context of the state of the nation when this Government came to office last December. There was an enormous deficit and inflation was rampant. Naturally, when looking at the broad picture of all government departments, including the Department of Health, the Government rightly took the decision that as health costs were $ 1,400m or 6.4 per cent of the total Budget, and the forward estimate for 1976-77 was $2,000m, there had to be some limit or the country would go into bankruptcy. The alternative was that money which was needed in other areas of government would be spent on health. So the Government took the decision to impose the levy. That is the main thrust of the legislation. Apart from the payment of the levy, the average citizen will be in the same position. Indeed, if one looks at the much maligned pamphlet which was issued yesterday, I think, a single person or a family if they wish to stay in Medibank do not have to do anything if their income is below $12,000 a year. They just keep on doing what they are doing now. No positive action is necessary by any citizen in Australia so far as his present Medibank cover is concerned. Naturally, if he wants private fund cover for additional benefits such as a private hospital bed or his choice of doctor he will have to pay for it, and again that is perfectly reasonable. He will pay for it on an escalating scale as his income increases. Again, that is eminently reasonable. 
-That is broadly what will happen. There is a ceiling. Likewise, there is a ceiling on the amount a person can be charged. When one considers total expenditure on health in Australia, which was $4, 700m in 1975-76 and $5,400m in 1976-77, action was needed to modify Medibank, and that is precisely what this Government has done. That is all that the 
Government has done, and it has done it at a saving of $800m to the taxpayers of Australia. I think it is important that we look at the alterations again and see the differences in the options that are now available. I again emphasise that anyone can stay in Medibank and that if people do nothing they will still be covered by Medibank, because the levy will be imposed on income unless the taxpayer demonstrates that he is covered by a private insurance fund. Those above a certain rate of income can either pay the levy and stay in Medibank or can opt out and join a private fund. They could do that if they wanted the additional cover for shared intermediate accommodation. They can insure themselves with a private fund for cover for private ward accommodation and choice of doctor, but they cannot insure for above standard fees for either doctor or hospital. The same excellent service will still be available as exists under the present system. 
Honourable senators will remember that people on low incomes- up to $4,300 in the case of a family and up to $2,604 for a single personwill pay no levy. As the Minister for Health said, in the case of those people who pay only the Medibank levy and those just mentioned who, because of their low incomes, do not pay the levy, the States will be asked to continue to make single room accommodation in public hospitals available without extra charge where a patient's medical condition indicates that this is essential. So, in essence, there will be no change in the service provided to people who say in Medibank. 
Before I close I want to say a few words in relation to the benefit funds. A great deal has been said about them and I think it is important that we understand them. I hold no particular brief for benefit funds in this debate but I do say that, consistent with the philosophy of people on this side of the chamber and of those people who sent us here, people should have the freedom of choosing their own doctor. The proposed scheme does ensure that this will be the case. It will ensure also that if people want private hospital accommodation they can pay for the privilege. This is a reasonable enough proposition. Insurance for the added cost of private hospital accommodation will be provided by the benefit funds, which are already in existence. But the legislation does provide- I think very properlyfor stricter control of the operations of benefit funds than has been the case hitherto. I suppose that the private health funds and Medibank could be likened to the 2-airline system which operates in Australia, where Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia operate side by side. I think it is proper that the Government should provide in this legislation for reasonable controls over the operations of, and charges made by, the funds, and the general conditions under which they will operate. I say this for 2 reasons. The first is that the benefit funds have a monopoly of operation in their field. None of the private insurance companies can compete with them. Also, the benefit funds are all non-profit organisations. I think it is very important in looking at this legislation to realise that these private medical funds, as they are called, are virtually mutual benefit societies. Under their rules any profits that they make must go back to the contributors. 

 Senator Melzer made quite some point of the fact that a lot of money is spent by these funds on advertising. In the last analysis it will be the contributors who will pay for the operations of the funds and for any inefficiencies that might develop in the funds' operations. So it is that the Government- as I said, quite properly- will impose certain restrictions on the funds by way of audit, the right to send inspectors to the funds and by way of various measures which are provided for in the legislation which we are debating. These restrictions are designed to ensure that the funds will remain solvent and operative and to ensure that if a fund does get into financial difficulties the responsible Minister will be able to take appropriate steps to apply the necessary surgery- if that is the correct word- to the fund before a situation develops in which money will be lost. I think that these restrictions are eminently reasonable. 
In conclusion I return to what I said at the outset, that is, that Medibank is being retained. It is not being dismantled. The essential change, if honourable senators like, will be that it will become a contributory scheme. I make no apology for that. I am sure that the people who support us and who put us here in December will understand that with the nation on the verge of bankruptcy and with a need to look at spending, the fortunate who can pay must be asked to pay and the poor and underprivileged- those below a certain level of income- should be allowed to continue not paying. That surely is just and equitable. I think that there will be a saving of $800m in the operation. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the problems of the survival of the goats' milk producing industry in Victoria occasioned in part by the reduction in the age limit applicable to infants eligible to receive a powdered goats' milk product known as Caprilac under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, and also occasioned by the importation of powdered goats' milk products from the United States of America and New Zealand? Will the Minister investigate the position to see whether some form of protection or assistance can be given to this small but important industry, particularly as it could offer a viable alternative land use for the depressed dairy and fruit growing industries in Victoria? 
It is not centralism. I do not have time to digress. I have only a few minutes left in which to speak, so do not interrupt me. The situation is that stabilisation is wanted in this industry in place of the outdated and inadequate equalisation scheme. The price of milk is different in different cities. The price of milk in Sydney is 20c a pint, or something like that, more than it is in Melbourne. The High Court said recently that milk can be sold interstate. If the interstate barriers are not preserved in the short term this industry will collapse. I hope and trust that the Crawford report will provide some guidelines for putting the industry on a sound federal basis whereby everyone in the industry will receive the same price for his product. That will enable the more efficient dairy farmers to survive. Those who are inefficient will have to get out. We have to face the facts. I agree with the second option of  Senator Primmer.  The industry must be rationalised and stabilised. I have every confidence that within the relatively short term of two or three years it will come back to be one of the great primary industries of this nation. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-I thank the Senate for its indulgence. In the speech I delivered in the Senate some time ago on this Bill I inadvertently used the figure 25c instead of 25 per cent.  Senator Walsh  quite properly drew attention to the inaccuracy, and 1 have sought leave to make that explanation because it is no longer possible to correct the  Hansard  record. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister seen a report that the Postal Commission will end the year with a surplus estimated at between $10m and $ 14m? Can the Minister verify the report? If it is correct, is he in a position to state that no further increases in postal charges will be approved by the Government for the coming financial year? 
I rise to support the Bills. In doing so I hope to be brief. A great deal has been said already about this subject. These Bills are important to the survival of this very important Australian primary industry. Some things have been said about the concern that has been expressed in Victoria. I think I should begin my remarks by saying a few words about that, I attended two of the marches in Victoria last week when 20 000 rural Victorians took to the streets. Among the men, women and children who marched were dairy farmers who had travelled many miles to attend, trade unionists in their overalls and dust coats, and businessmen in smart suits and ties. As one newspaper report aptly put it, 'while the curious looked on, the concerned marched in Leongatha, Maffra, 
Camperdown, Colac, Shepparton and Wodonga'. 
I think that for the first dme- in Victoria in any event- a fundamental fact of economic life has been realised, namely, that the prosperity of cities and towns in rural Australia depends greatly on the prosperity of the primary industries that surround those cities and towns. I think that there is now an acute awareness in Victoria of the gravity of the situation in this respect. We are not conducting a post mortem on the industry today, but we do have a rescue operation to carry out urgently. For that reason the introduction of this legislation is very timely. 
I wish to reply, firstly, to the criticism- unfounded, of course- that has been levelled against the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  by  Senator Gietzelt  who complained about delays occurring while the Minister is grappling with this problem.  Senator Gietzelt  had a great deal to say about the LiberalCountry Party Government being inactive up to 1972. The honourable senator shares an abysmal ignorance of the problems of this industry with the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who led the debate on this legislation in the other place. They have not done their homework on the economics of the industry because the fact is that this was a healthy, prosperous industry in most areas of Australia till 1972, which is when Britain joined the European Economic Community. Then the problems started. If the debate today is on who is responsible, the Government that was in power in Australia in 1972 and the subsequent 3 years must take the blame. 
As I have said, the introduction of this legislation is timely. I wish to deal very briefly with a few of its provisions. The $2m that is to be made available, in addition to the remedies that were available in the legislation passed in 1974, represents the provision of very important carry-on loans. A maximum of $4,000 is to apply in each case. These loans are very timely and reasonably generous in terms of the repayment and interest rates. They will materially assist in the short term a number of farmers whose asset position is sound but who, due to falling prices and circumstances entirely beyond their control, have temporary liquidity problems, such as the payment of rates, interest on mortgages and other regular outgoings. The States will be making a similar contribution. 
The 1974 legislation has resulted in considerable progress being made in Victoria in that many people who are no longer viable have been taken out of the industry. The legislation provides finance on generous terms and at a low rate of interest to enable a dairy farmer who is viable to take over an adjoining or neighbouring property of a smaller dairy farmer and thus build them into one viable unit. I pay tribute to the work of the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission in Victoria in this respect. There is, of course, an urgent need for greater activity this year because the crisis has become much worse. Undoubtedly more people will have to be taken out of the industry. As I have said, this legislation provides short term assistance to the industry. he problems in the long term are grave. 
As the Minister has said, first of all the industry will have to be buttressed and maintained until the end of August by the sort of assistance that is already being given of subsidising the price at the level of 50c per lb to enable the farmers to stay in business. That type of assistance will have to continue. I support the policy announced last week by the VDU and the survival figure of 55c per lb. It is true, of course, that until 1 8 months ago people were getting 70c per lb, but with the compounding of the markets and the general situation one must look to a survival figure that will enable the industry to carry on until the unprofitable farmers are taken out of it and those who are viable remain in it. All State governments have agreed to limit production. 
I await the presentation of the Crawford report, which is due at the end of August. Without in any way anticipating what the report will say or pre-empting what its recommendations will be, I take the view that if the industry is to survive it must be placed on a federal basis like wheat, wool and our other great primary industries. State jealousies must be forgotten. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that the port of Melbourne is the most costly container port in the world and that it costs almost 3 times as much to unload, process and deliver light container-load containers at Melbourne than it does at London, Rotterdam or New York? The respective costs are $A66 at Rotterdam, $A65 at London and New York and $A158 at Melbourne. No doubt the Minister will appreciate that this enormous cost is creating great hardship for Melbourne importers as well as adversely affecting the Government's program to cut inflation. Will the Minister arrange for an urgent report to consider what action is available to the Government to correct the situation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It relates to the position of 1 1 members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union employed by M. B. John Ltd and John Valves Pty Ltd at Ballarat who were fined a maximum $20 each before a closed committee of the union for refusing to take part in a political strike in connection with Medibank despite the fact that their action in refusing to strike was supported by a two-thirds majority of employees at a lunchtime meeting. It appears that the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, in particular sections 138, 140, 141 and 188, have been breached by the union in this matter. Will the Minister take urgent action to investigate the situation with a view to instituting prosecutions should the investigations disclose breaches of the Act and to protecting the individuals concerned from further victimisation? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is the Minister aware that 10 000 children die every day on the Indian sub-continent because there is nothing to supplement their mothers' milk? The Minister will be aware that we have thousands of good productive cows in commercial herds, particularly in Victoria, which having regard to the present depressed state of the dairying industry are surplus to our requirements but are desperately needed on the Indian subcontinent to provide milk and so save the lives of these unfortunate infants. Will the Minister on humanitarian grounds discuss the problem with his colleague, the Minister responsible for foreign aid, with a view to making an urgent grant of $5m which is the estimated cost of purchasing and transporting 10 000. of our productive cows to India and Bangladesh, thus assisting to solve this problem? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister will be aware that some unions in the Latrobe Valley, the nerve centre of Victorian power supplies, have called a 48-hour stoppage commencing at midnight tonight in an attempt to force the State 
Electricity Commission of Victoria to grant a 35-hour week to approximately 10 000 power workers employed in the Valley. This unfortunate stoppage will paralyse transport, industry and commerce in Victoria for the period of the stoppage and will force the standing down of an estimated 300 000 workers. In view of the drastic effect that a stoppage of this magnitude has on the economy, particularly in regard to the control of inflation, will the Minister investigate the possibility of providing machinery within the arbitration system whereby on a universal industrial issue such as the 3 5 -hour week all workers affected, either directly or indirectly, by the proposed stoppage will have an opportunity of voting by secret ballot on whether or not the stoppage should be held? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It relates to the establishment of the proposed national rural bank. Can the Minister say whether the departmental committee's investigation has been completed? If so, when will an announcement be made in relation to the findings? If the committee 's investigation has not been completed, can the Minister say when its report is likely to be available? 
The Minister representing the Treasurer will be aware of the depressed state of the canning fruit industry, particularly in relation to canning pears. With a view to assisting diversification in the industry will the Minister consider the exemption from sales tax of pear wines and pear ciders to bring them into line with apple wines and grape wines which are already exempt from sales tax? 
I rise to support the motion. At this stage of the debate when a number of speeches on the Budget have been delivered in this place, and a number have been delivered in the other place, from both sides of the House, perhaps it is worthwhile looking at the Opposition's case so far as this Budget is concerned. I want to state at once that commencing with the speech of the Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  the theme has been that everything this Government is proposing for the economy is wrong and everything that the Labor Government did in its 3 years of office was right. I think that statement is epitomised in the heading of the leading article which appeared in the  Age  on 26 August. 1 suppose honourable senators would have to say that the  Age  is not an unkind critic of the Leader of the Opposition. The heading was ' Whitiam strolls Memory Lane'. One would have thought that an Oppostion which lost government in December last by the greatest majority in our history since Federation would have learnt a lesson from that defeat, particularly when dealing with such a vital and important document as this Budget. The verdict of the people then- I remind honourable senators that that was less than a year ago- was that Labor was not the team to fight inflation. Yet the same inflationary proposals and policies are put forward again by the Opposition. This, I suggest, is in contradistinction to the attitude of the Government which is proposing a list of alternatives to those policies so clearly rejected by the people of Australia at the polls last December. The Leader of the Opposition has completely failed to acknowledge the mistakes of his Government. He still fails to answer the question asked by the electorate last December: Where was the money to come from to finance the grandiose policies and the largesse of the Labor Government? 

 - Senator O'Byrne can have a go later.  (Quorum formed)  When I was interrupted by the chorus from memory lane across the way I was about to list some of the Government's achievements, both as a result of the Budget and since assuming office 9 months ago. I point out to the Senate and to the people of Australia that this Government already has a proud record of achievement. It has the Budget 
Papers as a blueprint for controlling inflation, which is its major task. 
It is perhaps fortuitous that the first Budget Paper with which I will deal is the one related to education. I am dealing with them in the order in which they were dealt with by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in the other place.  Senator Ryan  devoted her speech exclusively to the subject of education. I think I should deal with it first. I will deal with it very quickly. I suggest that the test is the provision of money for education. Commonwealth expenditure on education in 1976-77 is estimated at $2204m, an increase of 15.3 per cent. Honourable senators opposite talk about incorporating automatic adjustments. We heard a story about the education commissions. Expenditure is up by 15.3 per cent compared with the figures for 1975-76. The great thing, in addition to the increase in the money available, is that the Government has restored the triennial program in education on a rolling basis, which allows for flexibility and adjustment at the end of each 12 months of the 3-year period.  Senator Ryan  tried to explain away what Labor did to triennial funding. Then she said that she does not agree with it anyway. All the experts in education say that triennial funding is absoluetely necessary if there is to be a planned program. We know the unfortunate story of education under the previous Government. In June 1975, because of the financial mess in which the country was at that time, it was impossible for the Labor Government to continue with triennial funding. All that it could suggest was a 1-year  ad hoc  proposal. I pay tribute to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  for his excellent work in restoring order to a significant portfolio in such a short period. 
I turn now to social security and welfare. This area is the largest single component of the Budget outlays. In 1975-76 the overall figure was over $5000m or 23 per cent of total outlays. This year there is provision for the expenditure of $6 187m or about 25 per cent of total Budget outlays. I deal briefly with a few of the things provided in the Budget. I mention firstly family allowances, which were introduced in the last session of this Parliament. I think it is worth repeating that some 300 000 low income families with 800 000 children will benefit most from the dependent children's rebates. Under the previous system of tax rebates, these poorer people derived either no benefit or less than a full benefit. 
I turn to the area of pensions. One of the landmarks of this Budget, an historical event, is the announced intention of the Government to tie future pension and benefit adjustments automatically to movements in the consumer price index. Effective from the first pay day in November the standard or single rate social service pension will be increased by $2.25 a week to $43.50 a week. This will apply in respect of age, invalid and repatriation pensions, widows' pensions and supporting mothers' pensions. Another pleasing aspect of the Budget's pensions proposals is that the Government has decided as from November next to abolish the separate property component in the means test for pensions. This will bring a great number of people in Australia into the eligibility field for age and other pensions. 
I mention briefly the assistance to handicapped children which has been increased by 50 per cent, from $10 a week to $15 a week. The benefit payable in respect of handicapped children in institutions will be increased from $3.50 a day to $5 a day. I mention briefly legal aid. Here we have an expenditure commitment of $20m, including $3. 7m for legal aid for the Aboriginal community. The total expenditure compares with an expenditure of $ 1 6.3m for last year. 
I turn now to the worthwhile taxation reforms proposed. I remind the people of Australia that this is a reform Budget and that some of the taxation reforms proposed are the most far-reaching for many years and are of great benefit to the taxpaying public of this nation. The first milestone is the indexing of personal income tax which has been in force for pay-as-you-earn purposes since 1 July. This proposal, perhaps more than any other proposal in the Budget, will do more to reduce inflationary trends and to restore real spending power in the community. In the past, with rising incomes, particularly in the wage earning sector of the community, the interaction of inflation and a progressive income tax scale had the effect of increasing the effective tax rates, of diverting an increased amount of the national income to the government as tax revenue and of changing arbitrarily the nature of the tax burden. That was in the absence of legislative changes or provisions. The indexation proposal will give to taxpayers of Australia more take home money. Instead of the Taxation Commissioner being the main beneficiary of increases in wages, the taxpayer for the first time will really benefit from the increases in wages. To put it in its simplest terms, this reform means that although a taxpayer has a rise in income his rate of tax remains the same. It is worth noting that the cost of this reform and the changes associated with it is estimated to be $ 1,050m for this year and $1,2 10m for a full year of operation. 
The changes in the valuation of trading stock also give relief in the tax field. The proposal is that the cost of a firm's trading stock at 1 July 1 976 will be revalued for income tax purposes by reference to the percentage increase in the goods' component of the consumer price index between the June quarter of this year and the June quarter of 1977. This means that the difficulties experienced by many companies and small businesses with inflation of values will be overcome to some extent. The situation has been that a company or a small businessman purchases an article for, say, 80c and sells it at $1, giving him a 20 per cent markup or profit, and when he comes to replace that article the whole of the proceeds of $1 are required for replacement. So he has a liquidity problem created by the fact that all his profits are going in stock replacement. When one adds to that factor the increase in value of the stock on hand at 30 June because of inflation, the difficult situation in which these small businesses find themselves will be fully appreciated, because the greater the value of stock on hand, the more tax has to be paid. The 2 things together have really added insult to injury to the small businessman in particular, to such an extent that many have had to close their businesses and seek other means of income. So the relief given in this regard is timely. 
The alteration to the retention allowance for private companies from 50 per cent to 60 per cent is also a worthwhile reform. The investment allowance- the legislation in respect of which was passed in the autumn session of the Parliament- will also assist the private enterprise sector of the community and will help to stimulate the economy. The income equalisation deposits are another timely measure to combat fluctuations in income due to drought, floods, market uncertainty and various other elements which lead to a major fluctuation from year to year in the income of primary producers. Whilst dealing with the taxation side of the Budget may I briefly compliment the Government for increasing the exemption from Federal estate duty which will make approximately 20 per cent of estates which are now dutiable exempt from duty. There will be a considerable reduction in the impact of duty on estates which will still be dutiable. I trust that this will be the first instalment in the ultimate abolition of this tax which yields only a fraction of 1 per cent of the total Federal revenue. In 1973-74 it yielded 0.55 per cent; in 1974-75, 0.43 per cent; and in 1975-76 an estimate of 0.39 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the proportion of total Federal revenue derived from Federal estate duty for the 3 years which I mentioned. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="069232197609083_64_0.jpg"></graphic>

In the time left to me in this debate I want to say something about the poverty which exists in the primary industry sector of the community today, particularly in my own State and area in the canned fruit and dairy industries. Whilst highlighting the poverty situation I want to acknowledge the Government's achievements and assistance to the rural sector during its 9 months in office. This subject was dealt with in considerable detail last night by my colleague,  Senator Thomas,  so I will deal with it very quickly. The measures initiated by the Government to assist the rural sector include the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty; the suspension of the meat export levy; the extension of the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme; assistance to the apple and pear industry; loans to canneries; increased tariff protection from orange juice imports; the underwriting for the 1975-76 season of the equalisation value of skim milk powder at $300 per tonne on a two for one basis with the States; the underwriting arrangements for skim milk powder and casein for the 6 months ending 31 December 1976; the underwriting until 31 December 1976 of the equalisation value for butter and cheese at $900 and $680 per tonne respectively; the provision of $ 13.5m for adjustment assistance to the dairy industry in 1976-77; the provision of $ 12m for brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication; the extension of the Softwood Forestry Agreement 
Act with a financial allocation of $6m; an increase in the floor price for wool; the provision of drought relief; and the provision of income maintenance support and some liberalisation in unemployment benefits. 
These reforms are very worth while and they have assisted materially in many areas of primary industry. In his 1973 report Professor Henderson pointed to the existence of pockets of poverty throughout the rural areas of Australia, particularly in the dairy industry. That was prior to the advent of the world surplus of skim milk powder which put the dairy industry, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania, in a state of crisis and considerably increased the percentage of poverty stricken dairy farmers in those 2 States. I have here some figures relating to income for dairy farmers in northern Victoria in a typical year, for the year ending 30 June 1 975 and the year ending 30 June 1 976. The figures, which are illuminating, have been prepared for me by a taxation consultant who practises extensively in the Goulburn Valley area of Victoria. He prepares and lodges a large number of tax returns for farmers and orchardists. The first table deals with 273 units and includes family partnerships. It probably covers some 600 individual taxpayers. The total income is $1.4m. The average income per unit is $5,410. That is at 30 June 1975. The table gives other details which time will not permit me to cite. 
The second table gives the figures for the year ended 30 June 1976. As that is the year just passed fewer returns have been prepared. This table relates to 106 units. The total income is $398,311 with an average income per unit of $3,758. That is between $70 and $80 a week. Probably this is for a husband and wife and it often means working 120 hours a week for less than the basic wage. I think that honourable senators would agree that these people are in a very unfortunate position. The figures for orchardists are even more depressing. The third table for the year ended 30 June 1 976 shows for 26 units a loss of $47,815. The average loss per unit is $1,839. So those people in the canning fruit industry have shown an average loss of about $1,800 on the returns that have been lodged to date. I think that that is a deplorable situation. I seek leave to incorporate those 3 tables in Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="069232197609083_65_28.jpg"></graphic>

These unfortunate citizens have no wages board or arbitration commission to fix their terms and conditions. The cases I have cited relate to a husband and wife working 50 or 60 hours a week. When one compares their situation with that of other persons in the community who are fortunate enough to be employed, even at the minimum wage, and with a joint husband and wife situation, one appreciates the unfortunate position in which they find themselves today. Perhaps some of them may be able to become air traffic controllers. As I have said, they have no wages board or arbitration commission. This Parliament and the State Parliaments are the only bodies which are in a position to correct their situation. I trust that something will happen in that regard. I have some further information here which I shall give. It relates to the position of orchardists. They are in an urgent and desperate situation. Suppliers to the Goulburn Valley canneries still have not received any payment for fruit delivered in the 1976 season. This means that they are currently owed about $5. 7m by the canneries. This is a disastrous situation. Until the Victorian Government assists the canneries with some sort of a rationalisation program to allow for the viable people to stay in the industry and to allow for the reduced amount of fruit which can be put into the can - 
-That may well be, but I have not time to argue with the honourable senator now. The growers' financial position is further aggravated by the prices set by the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for the 1976 season for deliveries of peaches and pears. These are $140 per tonne for peaches and $60 per tonne for pears. The peach price represents a reduction of 32 percent from the 1975 price and, in the case of pears, the reduction is 43 per cent. The gross income of Goulburn Valley growers for canning fruits delivered in the 1976 season will be $5. 7m compared with $ 14m for the 1975 season. This is a reduction of $8. 3m or 60 per cent. It is interesting to note that the price set for peaches is only 1 8 per cent higher that the price which applied 13 years ago in 1963, while the price for pears actually represents a reduction of 28 per cent. 
This is in vivid contrast to the escalation in wages over a similar period. Since 1963 the wages for an orchard hand have risen by 260 per cent. Even since 1974 the increase has been 43.7 per cent. It is interesting to look at the actual cost of the fruit in the can based on the grower's prices applicable for this year. Of the 50c paid for an ordinary can of pears from the supermarket shelf, the cost of the fruit in the can is less than 5c. For a can of peaches the cost is less than 7c. Surely these figures vividly illustrate the intolerable position of the unfortunate who are producers in the fruit canning industry. The situation in which we have two of our great food industries in danger of collapse calls for urgent concern and attention, particularly in a world where twothirds of the people are still hungry. I think it is reprehensible for any government, irrespective of political persuasion, to stand by and see the industries collapse. I am not suggesting that our Government is not doing something. Something has been done. I have listed the achievements of the first few months. 
The future of the dairying industry is tied up in the Crawford report which will affect the whole of the industry in Australia when an endeavour is made to rationalise it and to put it on a proper basis. I understand that the report is to be released to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  tomorrow. I do not know when it will be available to the industry. I urge the 
Government to make it available at the earliest possible moment so that people in the dairying industry can plan their future with certainty. Those who are viable can stay in the industry and those who will not be viable can retire gracefully, if possible, from the industry. I have already indicated that the first step in the case of fruit is the rationalisation of the canneries.  Senator O'Byrne  seems to find this amusing. This is a serious question. 
-I said 'In the case of fruit'. The situation is that the canneries will have to be rationalised. There is a market for a percentage of the fruit locally and a small market overseas. The damaging factor is the escalation in costs. If the Government can come up with a proposal I am certain that those who can stay in the industry will survive to see better times. I am sorry that I have had to deal in detail with the urgent problems facing these people in Victoria, but Parliament is the place where they can state their case. As I have said, there is no wages board or arbitration commission for them. 
In conclusion, I acknowledge the progress the Government has made in getting the nation back on its feet. I trust that we can look forward to a year in which inflation will be reduced, production increased and the nation returned to a situation of prosperity and progress such as was enjoyed before the advent of the Labor Government in 1972. 
I present the following petition from 263 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Ethnic Radio Hour in New South Wales broadcast in Croatian is controlled and run by members of the Yugoslav community and that the Australian-Croatian ethnic community is given no say. 
That Australian passports have been denied to some Australian citizens of Croatian origin without explanation or possibility of appeal. 
That discrimination has been exercised in the granting of citizenship privileges to migrants of Croatian origin. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Parliament in the negation and non-recognition of Croatian nationality. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Government in Ethnic Schools and University courses when it permits only the teaching of Serbo-Croat and not of the Croatian language as an alternative. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government will consider these facts in the light of justice toward a people who came as strangers to this land, and that appropriate action will be taken to remedy the present situation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. The Minister will be aware of current industrial trouble on the Australian waterfront, including a demarcation dispute, I think in the Port of Sydney. Can he give any estimate or indication of the effect of these disputes on Australia's export and import trade? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that in the processing anl assessing of income tax returns for the yea: ended 30 June 1976 the Medibank levy, payable from 1 October next, is being included in the pro&gt; visional tax assessed and charged? As this ii unfair to taxpayers who either have opted out o: Medibank or propose to do so, will the Minister arrange for an urgent investigation to be conducted to devise a procedure whereby taxpayer: can advise of their intention to opt out prior te the issue of the assessment and so prevent the levy from being charged on provisional tax? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen a report in today's  Australian  quoting remarks of  Mr J.  B. Donovan, the chief economist of the management consultants W. D. Scott and Co., in an address to a meeting of the Building Owners and Managers Association in Sydney yesterday?  Mr Donovan  is reported to have said: 
It should be quite clear that public sector spending on goods and services will rise in 1976-77 and beyond in real terms- the slump in the public sector has happened and is over and done with. 

 Mr Donovan went on to quote reasons for his statement. Would the Minister care to comment on the statement? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. He will have noted from the report of the AuditorGeneral, which was released yesterday, disturbing revelations about the loss of spare parts for the Royal Australian Air Force's Mirage fighters worth $34m and other extensive losses of lesser but still substantial amounts. Will the Minister arrange for an immediate investigation into departmental procedures in order to prevent losses of similar magnitude from occurring in the future? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. The Minister will be aware of statements made by the GovernorGeneral,  Sir John  Kerr, at the annual congress of the Returned Services League earlier this week to the effect that certain forces were trying to destroy notions of freedom and democracy among the young and were campaigning to convert students to political ideologies that ran against our traditional system of freedom and democracy. He said: 
There are forces at work in society today aimed directly at young people, which are calculated to influence in a fashion adverse to our traditional system of freedom and democracy, and adverse to our normal methods of democratic discussion. There is a high degree of organisation in this  pmselytisation  of the young in educational institutions. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources say when the report of the River Murray Working Party will be tabled in the Senate? If there is to be any further undue delay, due apparently to the fact that the report must be tabled simultaneously in the State Parliaments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, will the Minister ascertain whether copies can be made available to individual senators, as a number of copies have been made available through the Australian Government Publications and Inquiry Centre? 
I rise to support these 2 Bills. So many red herrings have been drawn across the trail and so many heresies have been spoken by honourable senators opposite in relation to the measures before us that I think I should bring the debate back to what it is all about. We are debating cognately 2 Bills which give effect to the imposition of the levy to assist in the financing of Medibank, as announced in the Budget Speech. That is what this debate is all about- the levy. But, as I say, the Opposition has attempted to put difficulties where there are none and has said once again something that has been repeated consistently since these measures were first mentioned in the House last May. It suggested that our Government was destroying and dismantling Medibank. That is not so. I shall refer briefly to the remarks  Senator Colston  made yesterday, reported at page 835 of  Hansard.  He stated: 
. I believe that we are witnessing one more chapter in the demise of Medibank. 
After another passage he went on to state: 
During the course of my comments I will show that it is not nonsense and that in fact Medibank as we know it has been destroyed, not improved. 
The plain fact is that there has been no attempt by this Government to dismantle Medibank. On the contrary, it has been strengthened as a permanent feature in the strategy of providing an overall comprehensive health service for all people in the nation. That is true. The only real change is that it now becomes a contributory scheme. The effect of this legislation will be to incorporate the levy into the taxation system of the country. That is a matter of convenience and it will save on costs. The taxpayers of Australia will be able to pay their levy when they pay their tax. That is an eminently sensible and satisfactory way of dealing with the situation. 
Honourable senators on the Opposition side should not be heard to complain because they were the first to suggest a contributory scheme when this legislation was first proposed. Now they are saying that they do not want the levy. The next thing I say is of great importance in the context of responsible finance for which this Government stands. We have a sense of responsibility to the people of Australia. We will not be a party to the squandermania which went on over the past 3 years. We are going in for prudent housekeeping. I wish  Senator Grimes  was here because he made the point that we were increasing taxation. But all we are doing is preserving a balance between the different portfolios in government. It is quite obvious to any person of reasonable intelligence that if we continue with a non-contributory scheme the money has to come from somewhere. We are not going to print it on the printing presses in paper money. 
I am speaking. I do not wish to be put off my beat by interjection from the honourable senator. If he listens I will explain the situation to him. I was saying that the Opposition cannot have it both ways. Our Government is to be congratulated on a wonderful achievement in the fields of education and social welfare. We have increased the grant in the total vote. 
If the honourable senator looks at the Budget papers he will see that. If honourable senators opposite do not want a contributory scheme for Medibank we will have to cut the vote for education and social welfare. Honourable senators cannot have it both ways. 
That is what they are trying to do. That is why the people of Australia rejected the Australian Labor Party last December.  Senator Ryan  implied that everyone will pay under the scheme. On page 862 of  Hansard o f  last night in a debate on other Bills she stated: 
The overall effect of the new Medibank arrangements is that everybody will pay more for Health insurance than he paid in the past- by way of the Medibank levy, by way of premium or by way of private insurance. It is true that free health cover is not being provided under these new arrangements. 
I propose to devote a little time to this topic because  Senator Grimes  had things to say about the pensioners. I propose clearly to state the position in relation to the pensioners of Australia. Much has been said, clearly and unequivocally, in the last few days and earlier about them. The truth is that there will be a significant number of Australian citizens who will make no contribution to the levy at all. The scheme preserves the right of pensioners who are entitled to pensioner health benefits, repatriation beneficiaries and of various other categories as detailed in the legislation. 
I hope  Senator Cameron  listens to this because it was one of the matters he mentioned. A significant number of citizens whose income falls below the amount of levy payable will also be exempt. They will not be required to pay the levy. I think somebody on the Opposition side made a point that people would be paying income tax, not a levy. I cannot see anything wrong with that. Honourable senators opposite would probably complain if we reduced the amount for everyone to the taxable minimum. But this Bill does not do that. The effect of this legislation is that no levy will be payable by a person who has a taxable income of $2,604 or less, or by a person entitled to the sole parent rebate-  Senator Cameron  asked about this matter and this information is found on page 2 of the explanatory memorandum- of $350 who has a taxable income of $3,790 or less or by a person entitled to a $530 rebate for a spouse who has a taxable income of $4,299 or less. Therefore, the truth is that in addition to those people who will not pay because of too little income which amounts I have just quoted- I do not want to repeat them- there will be the aged pensioners entitled to pensioner fringe benefits as well as repatriation beneficiaries and service personnel. These people will very rightly continue to receive the very special consideration which has long been extended to them in the field of health care. It is quite incorrect to assert that Medibank has been destroyed and that everybody will have to pay under this legislation. 
Before I pass on to other matters I refer to a Press statement of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  which surely must explain the situation to  Senator Grimes  who seems to have great difficulty in understanding this legislation. I shall read from the Press statement because it sets out very clearly the position in relation to pensioners. I may be labouring the point about pensioners but our Government cares about them. I think we have proved that with the family allowances and other social welfare legislation which we have introduced. The Press statement, dated 24 August this year, reads as follows: 
The Minister for Health,  Mr Ralph  Hunt, confirmed today that all pensioners entitled to pensioner health benefit cards will be exempt from the Medibank levy. 
I ask my friends opposite to listen to this part of the statement. It reads: 
This means that more than three-quarters of the 1 097 000 aged pensioners in Australia will not pay the levy. 
So 750 000 pensioners in Australia will not be paying any levy. Quite properly, the people who will be paying it will be the people who are not subject to means test; that is those who are 70 years and over. Some of the very wealthy in the community who are receiving pensions should have to pay the levy. I will quote the figures so that there will be no misunderstanding. I think some honourable senator said that we do not know what the ceiling is for pensioners. The information is in this statement. The Minister goes on to say: 
Taking into account the pension increases in the Budget, the overall income including pension which may be received from November- 
Pensions are being updated in November. Honourable senators opposite probably have caught up with that- by age pensioners without paying the levy will be- 
The Minister then gives the weekly income figures. For means tested age pensions, in the case of a single pensioner $70 and in the case of married pensioners, husband and wife, $1 18.50. For pensions without means test the weekly figure in the case of a single pensioner is $76.50 and in the case of a married pensioner $130. I complete quoting what the Minister said for the sake of rounding off the statement: 
In the case of married couples where one member is eligible for pensioner health benefits and the other is not eligible, the levy will be payable at half rates. This is the same provision as applies for repatriation beneficiaries and defence personnel under the new Medibank arrangements. 
That statement by the Minister is quite clear, unequivocal, concise and will be understood by pensioners. 
I turn now to a significant amendment made by this legislation. Private insurance funds will not now be required to issue to their contributors an end of year certificate of insurance. A simpler and less expensive system will be introduced by this legislation and people who have opted for private insurance now will make a claim to that effect on their annual tax returns. This will save considerable paper work for the private funds, for the contributor using the private funds and probably also for the Commissioner of Taxation. The legislation, of course, very properly provides for heavy penalties- I think it is double the amount of levy avoided- for taxpayers who claim to be privately insured when in fact they are not. This is consistent with the revenue laws of the country. I think it is fair to say that the Commissioner of Taxation and his office will find the scheme much simpler and more easily administered than was at first thought. We can now say that this new scheme has received general acceptance by the community. When we look back to the phoney one-day Medibank national strike, which all the statistics show was not supported by the great majority of Australian unionists but was foisted on them by the trade union leadership, it is apparent that there has been a strengthening of public opinion in favour of this legislation. 
Honourable senators will recall that during the parliamentary recess the  de facto  leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party, Bob Hawke, took over the reins and made all the statements. He entered into a public controversy with the Government over what he thought the trade unions would do or would not do, what his scheme was and what our scheme was. I make just one comment about that. It is a rather unusual attitude for people who espouse the cause of the workers to propose a double imposition. That is exactly what was proposed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions in the case of a working husband and wife. Every 2-income family under the Hawke scheme would have paid more. Every family in which the husband and wife both work would have been worse off than under our scheme which, of course, has a ceiling of $300. The explanatory memorandum with the Bill sets out the position clearly: 
A husband and wife who each have a taxable income are to be separately assessed for levy on their own taxable income but are to be entitled to share in the one family ceiling of $300. 
It is quite simple. We take the husband 's income and, if it is under $ 1 2,000, add to it enough of the wife's income to make it up to that figure, and the rest of their joint income is exempt. There is no problem at all. Yet under the Labor Party or Hawke scheme with no ceiling, taxpayers would have to pay a flat rate and husband and wife would each have to pay. 
I am not talking about the amount of levy,  Senator. Your  proposal had no ceiling. It is recognised by the people that the Hawke scheme was a deliberate and clumsy attempt to redistribute the wealth of the people, which is what most of the socialist legislation seeks to do. 
The scheme which we propose, and I will come to it in a moment if  Senator Mulvihill  will give me time, will mean a saving of $2,000m in expenditure. That is the sort of saving which the people have been looking for since the defeat of the Labor Government last year. They had 3 years with a Labor Government which thought that it had a bottomless purse and could spend and spend as though there was no limit to the amount of money available. 
I do not want to delay the Senate too long tonight, so in winding up I would like to quote a reply from the Minister for Health to a question asked in the other place today. I think his summation of the situation is worth repeating, and this brings me back to my opening theme- what this legislation is all about. To say that there will not be cover for this person or for that person is utter tripe. The Minister said: 
Universal insurance will remain after 1 October so that every person in Australia will be covered by one means or another for medical and hospital care. 
That is a clear, concise, unequivocal statement which tells every Australian where he or she stands. 
The Minister this morning said that the Government had made a decision to modify Medibank because of the very high increase in health costs in this country. He anticipated that costs this year would be of the order of$5,400m. He said: 
Quite clearly the health costs in this country have to be paid for by the community by one means or another- 
It has been said on both sides of the House that there is no such thing as a free feed; someone has to pay in the long run. I come now to the estimated figures for this year and I want to underline these remarks in concluding my speech. Under our proposals the estimated hospital and medical benefit costs in Australia total $3, 320m. If my arithmetic is correct- and I do not say that it always is- that shows a saving to the people of $2,080m, a fairly substantial sum of money which logically will be available to the Government to spend wisely, as it has been doing in other urgent areas of government expenditure. Let me give the breakdown so that honourable senators can see how the Minister arrived at the figures: The Consolidated Revenue will provide $1,1 20m; the States will meet about $840m by contributing towards hospital costs; the people who we anticipate will insure privately will contribute through their premiums about $985m; and the levy payers will contribute about $375m. The total amount is $3,320m. 
I commend the legislation to the Senate. I congratulate the Minister and the Government on the way in which they have handled what has been a difficult proposal concerning every Australian. I suppose that there is no more important area of responsiblity in government that health services. A scheme such as this, which does nothing at all to reduce the service to the people of Australia- in fact, it could be argued that it enhances it- but saves government more than $2, 000m, has my full support. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign, Affairs. The Minister may be aware of the growing incidence of Australian citizens serving sentences in foreign gaols for drug offences detected while on overseas travel. In view of the fact that the Philippines, Iran and Turkey have introduced the death penalty for certain drug offences and that the governments of Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia are reported to be contemplating similar legislation, will the Minister consider issuing warnings to all young people about to travel overseas about the penalties which they will incur if they deal with drugs while outside Australia? 
-This debate has developed into a somewhat emotional debate. I note that  Senator Mulvihill  is to follow me. I credit myself with having had a certain fleetness of foot in various sports before coming to this place, but a few seconds before 6 o'clock tonight apparently I was a bit slow out of the blocks. So we have had the advantage of hearing  Senator Harradine.  I would be quite happy to race my friend  Senator Mulvihill  over 100 yards, but I am glad I now have the call to speak. I think I should come to the subject of the debate. The matter of urgency is both ill-conceived and illtimed. I say that for 2 reasons. Firstly, my colleague  Senator Durack  mentioned a number of initiatives introduced by this Government to deal with the matter under discussion. Only last week an announcement was made of a special incentive scheme for youth employment training. It was made by the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The second reason is that the unemployment problems which confront the nation at the moment stem from 3 years of Labor mismanagement, in which time the number of unemployed trebled. I think we must look at the history of unemployment in this country in recent years. One of the strange things about this matter and a number of other matters in respect of which Labor is critical of the present Government is that the Labor Party, which showed no concern for the unemployed when it was in power, has suddenly found a conscience. It is also starting to show concern for school leavers who are unable to get jobs because of its policies during 3 years of office. 
The facts were stated by  Senator Durack.  I repeat them. In 1972 there were 1 10 000 unemployed. One of the major achievements of the Labor Government in its 3 years of office was to treble that figure. When looking at this question one is forced to examine the record of the previous Government and one finds that the present problems are the direct result of the policies of that Government. 
-No, I am not. The Labor Government failed to recognise a basic and fundamental economic principle. I will quote it for  Senator Brown's  edification if he is prepared to listen. I will read it, so that I quote it correctly. The principle is that inflation, wage restraint and unemployment are totally interdependent and inter-related. I will repeat that for  Senator Keeffe  's benefit because he propounded the heresy that inflation does not matter. The whole strategy of our Government has been to deal with inflation first. We deal with it because it is interrelated with unemployment and wage restrainta term about which  Senator Brown  knows very little. Until our friends in the Opposition, the people in the Australian Labor Party and the people in the unions of this nation accept that fundamental economic principle the problems we have will remain with us. I want to give some figures for the years 1973 to 1975. An increase in labour costs inevitably leads to a rise in unemployment. The present unemployment can be traced - 
I will give the source when I give the figures. I have only 10 minutes in which to speak, so please,  Senator Brown,  do not interrupt. 
The source is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street). 
The problem with our friends in the Opposition is that they will not listen to argument; so I propose to continue without interruption. The present unemployment can be traced back to the wage explosion that was permitted, and indeed encouraged, during the period 1973 to 1975 and particularly in 1974. My colleague,  Senator Durack,  has already cited these figures. They are in the record, but for  Senator Brown's  benefit I will repeat them. They are important when looking at this situation. They show the percentage increase in the average weekly earnings of Australians over the period 1970 to 1975. Between 1973 and 1975 wages escalated by 56.5 percent. 
It was the Department of Labour when the Labor Government was in office, and the figures cover a period during part of which the present Government was in power. The wage increase in 1973 was 15.3 per cent, in 1974 it was 27.9 per cent and in 1975 it was 13.3 per cent, adding up to 56.5 per cent. Because we had these massive increases in labour costs, Australian manufacturers are now finding it increasingly difficult to compete on the overseas market. That may be regrettable, but the fact is that many are making plans to manufacture outside Australia. So we have the unfortunate situation that because of excessive labour costs Australian industry is forced into the position not of exporting goods but of exporting labour. I stress again the fundamental principle that there is an inter-relationship between inflation, unemployment and wage increases. It has been stated a number of times both inside and outside Parliament that the Government's overall economic policy is aimed at the reduction of inflation. This is the top priority. The measures already undertaken require time to have effect, but the Government believes that its policy is the only road to a sustained reduction in levels of unemployment. I will give a couple of examples very quickly for  Senator Brown's  edification to show the escalation in wage costs. 
The first example was given by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  this morning. It costs 578 per cent more to handle a container cargo at the port of Glebe in Sydney than it does to handle such a cargo at London.  Senator Brown  can check this fact. Another example is in the shipbuilding industry, the industry about which everyone is concerned. At the moment that industry is being subsidised by between $7,000 and $8,000 per employee. The Labor Party suggests that it now be subsidised to the extent of $12,000 to $13,000 per employee. I am going to the core of this nation's unemployment problem. Until we get back to the situation of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay, fewer strikes by the unions, fewer 48-hour stoppages over an issue like the 35-hour week, unfortunately school leavers will find it difficult to find work. 
In the few moments I have left I want to deal with one matter relating to unemployment today. From inquiries I have made I think it is fair to say that not all job vacancies are attracting workers. I refer to yesterday's  Australian,  a paper from which  Senator Brown  occasionally quotes. 
It suits me to quote it tonight. I am going to quote it for the benefit of the 
Senate and the benefit of the people of Australia to show what has happened to an industry in Victoria. A news item in yesterday's issue of the  Australian  stated: 
Dunlop Australia is having trouble finding 400 workers it will need for a $7.7m extension to its Montague, South Melbourne, tyre plant. 
. Dunlop is already offering 3-month training schemes to bring unskilled workers up to the standard it needs. Trainees will graduate as machine operators and earn about $170 for a 40-hour week, plus overtime and bonuses for quality control and productivity . . . 

 Senator Douglas McClelland said there has been no improvement in unemployment since August, but the article to which I have referred is certainly an illustration that in certain areas of industry jobs are available. 
Finally I turn to the specific measures which the Government proposed last week in both the Senate and the other place. Guidelines were set out in a ministerial statement. Because honourable senators opposite have seen fit to introduce this urgency motion it is patently obvious that they are not even aware of this statement. If they are aware of it they do not understand it. Again for their benefit and the benefit of listeners to this Senate debate I will quote from the news release of the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Howard,  a section referring to school leavers. It is headed 'Special Incentive for Youth Employment Training' and states: 
They would now be offered the opportunity of 6 months on-the-job training for employment under a special program. 
A subsidy of $58 per week in respect of each person during training will be paid to employers participating in the program, whether in the private or public sector. This subsidy is considerably greater than the subsidies normally payable under NEAT. 
If  Senator Brown  likes to look at this document he will see that there are 4 conditions. Applicants have to be aged 15 to 19 years. They must have left school in the preceding 12 months. They must have been registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service for not less than a total of 6 months during this period. They must be registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service at the time they apply for training. 
Here we have an urgency motion on a matter about which the Government did something very substantial less than a week ago. I suggest to the Senate and the people of Australia that the Government's initiative in respect of those who left school last year should be given an opportunity to work. The Labor Party does not want it to work. The aim of the Government is to provide training in a wide range of jobs in both industry and commerce. The scheme is being introduced initially as a special measure for a limited period only. Its performance will be closely monitored and reviewed at the end of January 1977. So we are looking at it in those terms. The people of Australia will at least expect that this proposal, which is less than a week old, be given a fair trial before judgment is passed on it. I ask our friends in the Opposition to join the people of Australia and to give the initiatives a chance to work. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to criticism from the Victorian Universities and Schools Examination Board Sub-committee on Migrant English to the effect that some Higher School Certificate English essay questions discriminate against migrant and under-privileged children. Such questions involve issues such as the generation gap, women's liberation and censorship. The Sub-committee states that these questions disadvantage migrant children because the questions are not recognised as issues in their cultures. Will the Minister investigate the problem with a view to seeing whether some uniform curricula throughout Australia could be adopted which would place the migrant and under-privileged children mentioned in the Victorian report on an equal basis with other students? 
-I thank the Senate for the opportunity of associating myself with the expressions of condolence which have been so ably expressed from both sides of the chamber. I had a very short association in this place with  Senator Greenwood,  but I knew him as a practising lawyer before he was a senator. As a solicitor in Victoria, I remember his coming to the Victorian Bar. I followed his career with great interest. In a very short time he reached a position of eminence and had the respect and esteem of all members of the legal profession.  His  untimely passing is a grievous loss not only to the Senate but to the people of my State and to the Australian nation. I express my sympathy and join with the expressions of sympathy to his widow and family. 
I ask a question of  Senator Cotton  as Minister representing in this chamber the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister state whether any agreement was reached at the Dairy Industry Council meeting held on Friday of last week to continue the joint State and Federal price support to the dairying industry beyond the end of December 1976? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware of a recent decision of the Industrial 
Court upholding the decision of a South Australian magistrate that fines imposed by the Federated Moulders (Metals) Union of Australia on a member for non-attendance at a stop-work meeting during normal working hours were illegal because of the provisions of section 188 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act?  Can  the Minister say whether his Department has any means to advise rank and file unionists of the legal protection afforded them by the Act to enable them to offer for employment free of coercion, particularly in stop work and strike situations? 
I rise to oppose the motion. I suppose one should first look at its terms and ask why it is brought before the Senate. After all,  Senator Keeffe  told us nothing of civil liberties except in the State of Queensland. This debate should be taking place in the Queensland Parliament. If one is looking for reasons for the debate being initiated in the Senate probably the one nearest the truth is that the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament is not game to confront the Premier of Queensland.  Senator Button,  in his remarks, expressed some fear and trepidation about entering into a debate on that subject. It is not surprising, of course, that the Queensland Opposition should have abdicated its functions in a debate on this topic because if one looks at the record of the Labor Party in Queensland over recent times it is quite revealing. I should remind the people of Australia who are listening to this broadcast and my friends opposite that after the last State election in Queensland, even though the Labor Party was supported by the great white hope of those days, the then Prime Minister, it succeeded in winning only 1 1 seats or, as has been perhaps somewhat uncharitably suggested, a mere cricket team. Another way of expressing the position was that the Labor Party members could have all been fitted into 2 taxis. If we take the analogy of a cricket team, apparently the Queensland Opposition is without an opening batsman or a fast bowler. So we have this debate in the Senate today. 
I suggest that if the situation is serious enough to disrupt the business of this Senate by debating this as an urgency motion, and if the Labor Party Opposition in Queensland, for reasons which I have stated, does not wish to debate the matter in its unicameral Parliament, it is ironical that the Labor Party should come to the upper House of this Parliament, the Senate, which if I understand its policy correctly, it is pledged to destroy. Be that as it may, I suggest that the people of Queensland at the next State election will pass judgment on this question of civil rights. It is not quite the function of this Senate to be debating a motion of this kind. However, as it is on the notice paper and we are debating it, I will proceed to deal with the arguments which have been advanced thus far in the debate by the Opposition. 

 Senator Keeffe had something to say. as my notes suggest, about bank robbers, hard drug pushers and murderers going scotfree. If that means anything in civil liberties, I suppose it means that these criminals are getting a greater serve of civil liberties than they deserve. I do not think it proves anything in respect of breaches of civil liberties in that State. All  Senator Keeffe  's comments were devoted to Queensland. However he did digress for a while to take us to Darlinghurst in Sydney. He quoted the Christian names of persons involved in some sort of fracas that took place in what I take it was a cafe or similar establishment in that place. I listened carefully but could not detect any grave infringement of the civil rights of the people he mentioned. He dealt with another aspect of the matter when he referred to Mount Larcom. I am informed- and a claim was made- that people were being denied a fundamental civil right there because they were being dispossessed of their farms. I am also informed that this area is a declared mineral field and that the farmers knew this when they took up the land. The land has been allotted as leasehold and not as freehold. The farmers have been compensated on a freehold basis. The laws of Queensland, like the laws of the Commonwealth and the laws of the States of Australia, provide that in this sort of circumstance a person is to be compensated on just terms. If  Senator Keeffe  likes to investigate the position he will find that that is what is happening in the case of the people at Mount Larcom. 
I turn to the comments of  Senator Button  who was fair enough to congratulate the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  on the Government's initiative in relation to privacy. The Minister listed a number of areas in which the Government, since assuming office last December, has made significant advances in the field of civil liberties. I have already dealt with the position of the Premier of Queensland. The best that  Senator Button  could do was to make a sneering reference to the Christian principles of the Premier of Queensland. If that is the best the Opposition can do in relation to the Premier of Queensland, I do not think he has anything to worry about. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is the Minister aware of figures released this week by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which show that Victoria has 961 registered unemployed professional people compared with the national total of 2558, and that these figures apply to 61 professional occupations? Can the Minister say whether his Department has any on-going research program to ensure that people seeking admission to universities and other institutions of professional training are fully apprised of the employment opportunities which are likely to be available on completion of study to obtain the necessary professional qualifications? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. By way of preface I refer to the annual report of the Australian Postal Commission which was released this week. The report indicates that the Commission converted a $65m deficit to a $32m surplus which gives a $97m profit on the year's operations. Not only did the Commission show this very satisfactory trading surplus but also $5 1.1m was used on capital expenditure, and the Commission funded 100 per cent of its capital expenditure. In view of this very satisfactory position, can the Minister say whether postal charges can be held at their present level for the current financial year and, if there is a suggestion that an increase may be necessary, will the Government investigate the possibility of the Commission's raising capital funds on the outside money market to finance capital works, as has already been done in the case of the Australian Telecommunications Commission, so that postal charges, if not reduced, can at least be contained at their present level? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of a report published in 1966 in Japan which discusses the diminution of stomach cancer in that country by the intake of milk and dairy products. If so, has any follow-up research been done in Australia to expand on those findings. 
2 ) In view of the state of the dairy industry in Australia at the present time, will the Minister have his Department undertake an assessment of whether milk and dariy products have the properties suggested in this report, and publicise any favourable findings. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister will be aware that the annual report of the Australian Telecommunications Commission released this week shows that the Commission had a surplus of $ 152.4m for the year ended 30 June 1976 and that this was used to finance capital works. He will also be aware that of the $4 15m to be made available for capital works programs for the year 1976-77 $2 15m is provided under the Budget and $200m will be borrowings on the local capital market. The Budget Speech indicated that there may be some additional input for capital works required from revenue. I am informed that the total estimated expenditure for capital works for the coming year is $9 10m. Will the Minister ensure that if revenue used for capital works involves any increase in telephone charges he will look at additional borrowings by the Commission to finance capital works before approving any proposed increase in charges? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It arises from an earlier question asked by  Senator Button  in relation to industrial unrest and days lost because of strikes. The figures I have from the Bureau of Statistics agree with the figures quoted by the honourable senator. 
I take it that they are correct. The figures show that 3.5 million days were lost in the year ended 30 August 1975, compared with 4 million days lost in the year ended 30 August 1 976. What the honourable senator omitted to point out, however, was that the figure for the year ended 30 August 1976 included 483 000 days lost through the Medibank strike in June and 1 574 000 days lost through the Medibank strike in July. Will the Minister agree that the net figure of slightly fewer than 2 million days lost in 1976, as against 3.5 million days lost in 1975, shows a substantial reduction in the number of working days lost? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I say by way of preface that he will be aware that probate duty has been completely abolished in Queensland and abolished as between spouses in some other States. The Minister will also be aware of the provisions of the amending federal Estate Duty Bill which gives considerable relief from the incidence of federal estate duty. I am now informed that the Victorian Government proposes major changes in the Gift Duty Act and the Probate Duty Act, the effects of which will be to bring into the gift duty and probate duty field discretionary trusts and the beneficiaries thereunder who under the existing legislation are not liable for these duties. Can the Minister say whether the Government has any plans to introduce similar legislation in the federal field which would not only completely negative the concessions effected by the Federal Estate Duty Bill but also unfairly disadvantage primary producers and others who are potential beneficiaries under these discretionary trusts? 
I rise to support these 8 Bills which are being debated cognately by the Senate and which, in broad terms, give effect to the Government's initiatives in relation to education during 1976-77. 1 do not propose to deal in detail with the matters raised by the Bills but they do afford an opportunity of looking at the various areas of education- in fact, the whole field of education- just to see where we are going. I think perhaps the starting point in a debate of this nature is to look at the position of education when our Government assumed office after the December 1975 elections. The position in the education field at that stage was chaotic and consistent with the position in a number of other areas of government activity at that time. 
Two major problems confronted the Government in the field of education. One of these was that the triennial funding had been terminated at short notice prior to the Hayden Budget being introduced and the other was a reduction of $105m in funding for the year 1975-76 compared with the previous year. I think, when we take these and other factors into account, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is to be congratulated on the order he has restored from the previous chaos. We now have a return to triennial funding and an orderly forward program in the education area. After examining the 4 different areas of education, as represented by the 4 different commissions in that field, I think every fair-minded Australian would recognise and acknowledge that the Minister has a very difficult and delicate task in balancing the needs of the 4 areas because a need can always be demonstrated when one is dealing with government funds. This is true in the education field. 
I should like to refer briefly to the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition in the Senate asking that further resources be directed to the area of technical education. As I have already said, the Minister for Education has a difficult task. Whatever he did, if he were to favour the university area or the advanced education area, he would be criticised equally in either case. When I quote some figures in a few moments I think it will be realised that they show that the Minister has given a larger percentage of funds in the field of technical and further education than in the other 3 areas. 
I think it is worth stating at this stage of the debate that the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who led the debate in the other place, was critical of the Government for its failure to allot more money to the university field. He spent the first part of his speech saying just that- that more money should have been allocated. When one is looking at the situation in relation to total expenditure as the Government is, one must realise that there are priorities. As I said in an earlier debate in the Senate relating to education, despite the tight financial position we were able to increase the actual funds for each of the Commissions. So that the figures can be on record, I shall quote them. For the 1977 calendar year the total expenditure proposed is $ 1,537m, as against a figure of $ 1,490m in 1976. The individual breakdown of the figures shows that for the year 1976 the Universities Commission has a proposed expenditure of $542m, whereas in 1977 the amount will be $555m. In the case of the Commission on Advanced Education, its expenditure for 1976 is $385m, as against a figure of $404m proposed for 1977. For the Technical and Further Education Commission the expenditure for 1976 is to be $65m, and that is to be increased to $70m for 1977. That is quite a significant increase of some 14 per cent. In the case of the Schools Commission, the figure for 1976 is $498m, which is to increase to $508m in 1977. So there has been an increase in all the areas. I think it is perhaps unfair to select one area of the four and to say that the Minister has not done that justice. It is reasonably obvious to any intelligent person that if we were to increase expenditure on technical and further education this money would have to be taken from one of the other 3 fields. On balance, I think we cannot be critical of the apportionment which has been made in these areas. 
I want to refer briefly to a number of matters relating to each of these 4 areas of education. I shall deal first with the university area. I think it fair to say that when university education became free there was a considerable upsurge in the number of people who sought to embark on university courses. I think this was a good thing and I am not critical of it in any way. But the point must be taken now that we have had some years of experience of free tertiary education and people in the education field should be looking ahead to make certain that positions will be available for graduates after they qualify. A number of professions are now becoming overcrowded. It is of particular importance that a student, before he or she embarks on a university course, should look at the job opportunity at the end of the line. In the case of 90 per cent of people taking tertiary or university courses, they will be depending on the qualifications they get for their livelihood after they qualify. 
I know that in my own profession of law, which I still practise occasionally, figures show that by 1980 the legal profession in Australia will be grossly overcrowded having regard to the number of people at present embarking on the course and the expected output of graduates throughout Australia. I saw the ratio of members of the legal profession per head of population the other day. I have forgotten the figure but it was alarmingly low. I think that we will find that this situation will obtain in other professions in that there will just not be enough work available in the particular professional field for all the persons qualified. I mention briefly the profession of architecture which is at the moment seriously overcrowded and also certain engineering courses which are overcrowded. 
Thank you, geologists, yes. I sound only a note of warning. I think also that we should look- if I might digress- at the population growth figures which show that the population of Australia is almost reaching ZPG- zero population growth. Understandably the migrant program is light on at the moment. This is because of the unemployment situation. I agree with my friends opposite that it would be wrong while we have a bad unemployment situation in Australia to embark on a major migration program. But all these factors, I suggest, will lead to some reduction in the demand on university facilities. 
I make a brief comment in relation to colleges of advanced education. I note with interest that the Government supports the proposals of the Commission on Advanced Education for a review of assistance to non-government teachers' colleges. The Minister for Education has stated that he proposes to issue a request in specific terms to the Commission on Advanced Education to conduct a review and to recommend on the assistance which might be required. I congratulate the Minister for that initiative. 
I turn now to the field of technical and further education. The first comment I make in relation to that field, in the context of the amendment which has been moved, is that it is primarily a State field of education. This is an area in which the States operate and the Commonwealth's contribution is by way of additional funding. But I think it worth noting that in this financial year capital funds will be provided by the Commonwealth to permit a start to be made on the construction of four new major colleges- one at Mount Druitt in New South Wales; two in Victoria, one at Dandenong and one at Newport; and one at Mount Gravatt in Queensland. The 
Minister has also stated that work on the construction of other colleges in all States will continue and planning for future colleges will proceed. I also note the Minister's statement that $200,000 has been made available for programs to be carried out by non-government agencies such as programs designed to improve literacy and numeracy among adults. I suggest that this is a pleasing step forward. 
I want to say a few words also about the situation in relation to apprentices. This was mentioned by  Senator Colston  who spoke earlier. I refer the Senate to the excellent summary by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  in the debate in the other place of the chronological history of the apprenticeship movement from the year 2100 BC, through the years of the Industrial Revolution in England, to the present in Australia.  His  review indicates that in the apprenticeship area there is a need for great improvement. It will be in the context of a combined effort by State and Federal governments. That is the only way I think any practical result will accrue. I have a figure, which I will quote, relating to the Victorian position last year. There were 10 000 unsuccessful applicants for apprenticeship. This figure, I think, is a vivid illustration of the urgent need to do something about making apprenticeships available for students who seek them. 
In certain areas of Australia today, despite the high rate of unemployment, there is a shortage of qualified personnel and skilled labour. One of the reasons for the shortage is the depressed economic conditions through which the country passed in recent times and out of which it is now hopefully coming. Employers were unable to support apprentices in the system. I look to some joint initiative with the States by which every student who wishes to be apprenticed will be accommodated. It may be necessary to subsidise employers who, because of their financial position, would not otherwise employ apprentices. We must look at the situation in the context of the present employment situation. Large numbers of young people are unemployed. I know the Government is looking at certain initiatives in this area, in co-operation with State governments. 
I refer briefly to the Schools Commission area. It is worth noting that the Government has accepted the Commission's recommendation that the 6 existing programs be maintained in 1977. These are set out in detail in the Minister's statement of 4 November. I will not quote" them. I refer briefly to a number of proposals in relation to future plans for non-government schools, as indicated by the Minister in that recent statement. The Government's policy is to provide basic  per capita  grants for all pupils in nongovernment schools, at the same time maintaining higher grants for schools in greater need. It is implicit in the Government's policy to encourage parental choice of school. The Government has accepted the Schools Commission recommendation that the level of grants for non-government schools be linked automatically in future years to per pupil expenditure levels in government schools. The Minister stated that the Government was not satisfied with the present differential ratio between pupils in government schools and pupils in non-government schools. For the future, this tying in of the non-government schools with the  per capita  expenditure on government schools will at least ensure that the gap does not widen. The Minister stated that this situation will be remedied as finance and circumstances permit. 
The other matter to which I refer briefly in this context is the Government's decision to introduce a scheme which will enable nongovernment schools to plan to commence capital projects which have been approved for assistance under the Capital Works Program in 1 978 and 1979. This move will contribute significantly to the economic and orderly forward planning of building projects. One further recommendation of the Schools Commission which the Government is adopting is the one related to guarantees of loans raised by non-government schools to finance construction of approved building projects. As the Minister said, legislation will be introduced in the autumn session of 1 977 to give effect to this situation. 
The Minister is to be congratulated for the initiative in appointing the Williams committee of inquiry which was announced recently. It will undertake a comprehensive review of the whole area.  Senator Davidson  referred to the Martin inquiry and to another inquiry, both of which were held 10 years or more ago, into specific areas of education. The Williams committee will be the first fully comprehensive inquiry into the whole field of education. The announcement by the Minister is consistent with his performance in the portfolio since the Government assumed office. 
There are areas of concern in education apart from the financial aspects on which I have dwelt largely today. One statistic which came to my notice recently related to the time spent by children in Australia watching television. I refer to an article by Kevin Tindall, Director of the 
Audio- Visual Centre at Sydney Teachers College, and  Mr David  Reid, a lecturer at the Audio-Visual Centre at Sydney Teachers College. It is interesting to note the statistics: 
During 1975 the average Australian school child watched 218 hours of advertising on television. This was part of a total viewing commitment of 1095 hours- more than 20 hours each week. The average child who left school in 1975 spent 15 120 hours in the classroom as against 17 520 hours in front of the television set. 
I suggest that among the various matters which might be looked at by the Williams committee under its very wide terms of reference could be the impact of television on children, particularly children of primary school age. I congratulate the Minister on his excellent work in the field of education, exemplified, I think, by the appointment of the Williams committee. While we acknowledge that the present system is not perfect- if it were, there would be no need for the Williams inquiry- we at least have triennial funding, forward planning and a situation in which people in the education field know the Government's intentions clearly and unmistakably for some time ahead. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
-Has the Minister for Science seen a newspaper report earlier this week relating to the discovery that a species of Australian butterfly eats poisonous plants which are common to many of Australia's wool growing areas and which are known to poison large numbers of sheep? Can the Minister say whether his Department has conducted an investigation into this matter? If it has, can he give any indication of the results of such investigation? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Attorney-General been drawn to a Press report concerning delays in the hearing of applications under the Family Law Act in Victoria? According to the report the defended cases involving custody, maintenance or property issues face a delay of up to 3 years; preliminary hearings to find out whether any agreement can be reached between the parties will not be held for about 5 months; and divorce applications face a 7-month wait. While conceding that there has been a flood of divorce applications since January which has probably contributed to the delays, I ask: Will the Minister have the matter investigated to see whether steps can be taken to appoint more judges and initiate other steps to reduce the delays? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. It concerns an annual grant of $150,000 to an organisation known as the Australian Conservation Foundation. It also relates to the  AM.  broadcast of 18 November last in which the interviewer Hamish Robertson referred to a statement by the Director of the Foundation,  Dr Geoff  Mosley, to the effect that certain legislation then before the Victorian Parliament relating to penalties against organisations which prevented or hindered any vital State project was reminiscent of Nazi Germany. Later in the program  Dr Mosley  said:   . . it's very much like the situation in Germany prewar . . . 
Later in the program in reply to a question from the interviewer, 'Could the Australian Conservation Foundation stand to pay a fine of $50,000?',  Dr Mosley  said: 
Oh, we certainly could not afford anything like that. I mean, our whole expenditure on projects for the year is in the order of about $6,000. 
Can the Minister say whether  Dr Mosley  was expressing a personal view or the view of the organisation? Will the Minister ensure that grants of this nature are applied strictly for the purposes for which they are made? 
I rise to support the Bill. It does give further relief in the Federal estate duty field in respect of property passing to a surviving spouse. As the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  has said, the value of the spouse's interest to a maximum of $50,000 will be excluded from liability for duty irrespective of the total value of the estate or the nature of the assets included in it. So there is an absolute exemption from liability for duty on an estate of $50,000. The Minister also referred to another aspect of this legislation which removes from the Estate Duty Assessment Act the exemption which applied in relation to the matrimonial home. This will provide greater flexibility because under this legislation exemption from duty applies irrespective of the nature of the assets included in the estate whereas previously the matrimonial home exemption was restrictive. 
Under this legislation in the case of an estate passing to a spouse the effective exemption from duty applies where the value of an estate does not exceed $90,000 because estates up to the value of $40,000 are exempt from duty in the existing legislation which remains unaltered in that respect. Once the value of an estate hits $90,000 the allowable exemption of $40,000 disappears at the rate of $2 for every $8 by which the total value of the estate exceeds the figure of $90,000. So in effect under this legislation an estate gets some exemption until a figure of $250,000 is reached. This is a very valuable step forward. It is pleasing to note that the Government has continued the recognition of the additional problems faced in respect of primary producer estates by reason of the fact that very often a major part of the asset is a freehold property and indeed in many cases that is the only asset held apart from livestock and plant. It has been a principle recognised over the years that an estate used for primary production should bear a lesser rate of duty. Primary producer estates up to a value of $98,000 will be exempt from duty. There is of course the benefit given of a reduction in duty in respect of primary production estates valued above that figure. That provision is in the existing legislation and remains unaltered. 
I think it is worth looking at the burden of Federal estate duty. I do not want to delay the Senate long on this matter but I do want to make a few observations. The payment of estate duty strikes at the middle and small operators in primary, secondary and commercial enterprises. In certain cases where there is a heavy hand by the estate duty commissioner these economic units become dismembered and in some cases the expertise of several generations is lost simply because the vicious impact of the scales of duty means that the assets which have produced income over the years have to be sold to satisfy the heavy assessment of duty. I think this is a situation which governments ought to avoid because, as I have already mentioned, liquidity problems face primary producer estates in respect of having to find large sums of money to pay duty when there are no capital funds available. The capital which has to be used to pay duty means that investment capital is lost to the nation. Thus national productivity opportunities are lost. 
I just want to cite a few figures in relation to the cost of the collection of Federal taxes and the percentage of total revenue derived from Federal estate duty. Firstly I will deal with the revenue derived from the imposition of Federal estate duty which comprises a very insignificant proportion of total Federal revenue. I have here a table which sets out the details of the total Federal revenue. I will seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard,  but before doing so I will explain it. It covers the 3 years 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. For 1975-76 of a total tax revenue of $ 16,843m estate duty revenue amounted to $76.4m or 0.45 per cent. As a percentage of total revenue collected by the Government, which was $ 18,274.8m, estate duty represented 0.42 per cent. As a proportion of the total tax revenue and as a proportion of total revenue, in both cases that figure is receding. In 1973-74 estate duty represented 0.61 per cent of total tax revenue, and in 1975-76 it represented only 0.45 per cent. That is a significant drop, a drop of 25 per cent. A similar situation applies in relation to estate duty as a proportion of total revenue. That figure dropped from 0.55 per cent in 1973-74 to 0.42 per cent in 1975-76. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="070232197612021_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

The second set of figures relates to the cost of collection of estate duty. It shows that the cost of collecting federal estate duty, calculated as a proportion of the net cost of total collections, is 2.69 per cent, compared with the cost of collecting income tax of 1.052 per cent. So it is costing 2V4 times as much to collect estate duty as it costs to collect income tax. 
-I think it is in relation to total revenue from estate duty. In other words, the total collections of federal estate duties in 1973-74 amounted to $65.9m and the net cash cost of collecting that amount was $1.8m. that means that the net cost of collection expressed as a percentage was 2.69 per cent. A similar situation applies in relation to the collection of income tax. The net percentage cost of collecting sales tax is even less, of course. The comparison I make, however, is between the net cost of collecting income tax and the net cost of collecting estate duty. I seek leave to have that table also incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="070232197612021_22_1.jpg"></graphic>

I want to make a brief reference now to the situation which has arisen in relation to the abolition of probate duty in the State of Queensland. Of course, in New South Wales and Victoria steps are being taken in that direction by abolition of death duty between spouses. In the case of Victoria I think legislation has already been passed by the Parliament, and in the case of New South Wales a Bill is at present before the Parliament. The effect of the New South Wales and Victorian legislation is to abolish completely duty on an estate which passes to a surviving spouse. I understand that it is proposed to introduce partial abolition of probate duty in Tasmania from 1 January next. I think that South Australia also has legislation on the way which will do what is being done in New South Wales and Victoria. So we find that the majority of the States are taking action to abolish completely the payment of duty on an estate passing to a surviving spouse. 
That has been a practice followed, but I think that the situation in relation to estates valued at less than $50,000 has been improved. The figures show that a very high percentage of estates have a net value of $50,000 or less. 
-Senator Wriedt mentioned $14m. My impression was that the figure might not be that high. I do not have the figure. The Minister may be able to help. I may have misheard  Senator Wriedt  but I think $ 14m was the figure he gave. That could be checked, however. I want to say something about the New South Wales legislation because it is a small part of a package deal with regard to a proposed Bill on stamp duties. This Bill establishes the most destructive levels of death duties in Australia. I suppose it could be said that it is the old thimble and pea trick. A great deal has been said about the abolition of death duties as between husband and wife. The tail of the tiger is that this Bill introduces very vicious provisions which will have the effect of increasing the duty in a great number of cases. Since the Bill has been introduced the people of New South Wales have had the opportunity to study it, and they realise the duplicity of the Premier m offering rebates as between spouse and spouse but at the same time imposing vicious duties in other areas. I refer to that legislation in that context to show the difficulties of the dual system which is in operation in the State and Federal sphere in this area. I put it as another argument to the Government that it may well be a telling case for the ultimate abolition of duty in this field. The matter could be returned to the States, but what the States do about it, of course, is their business. 
One side effect which I want to mention in relation to the legislation is, of course, that under the existing Federal Act duty paid in a State is deductible from the duty payable to the Federal Government. Duty is paid to the Federal Government on the balance of the estate after the amount of State duty has been deducted. The effect of that is that when the State duty is completely abolished, the Federal Government will impose the duty which would have been paid under the existing State legislation. That, I suggest, will deprive the dependants of the deceased from making what has been a legitimate deduction in that the full effect of the State legislation cannot be obtained. Because of the operation of the State legislation and the existing Federal legislation these people will actually be paying more in Federal duties, because the State legislation has been liberalised. That is the sort of anomaly which I think requires urgent attention. I am aware, of course, of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations which investigated this matter and which reported in December 1973. 1 am also aware of the findings of the Asprey Committee. 
The abolition of estate duty in Queensland occurred only this year. The other States have taken steps in this area only this year. I suggest that those steps make a radical alteration in the overall picture of the imposition of death duties throughout the States and the Commonwealth. For that reason I take the opportunity of speaking in this debate to bring this anomaly to the notice of the Government so that some steps might be taken to rectify it and to enable the dependants of deceased people in the various States where substantial relief has been given in the imposition of duties as between spouses to obtain the full benefit of the exemptions provided by the State legislation. I commend the Bill to the Senate as a first instalment in the total abolition of estate duty. I trust that the Government will look at the matters I have raised, particularly the recent amelioration by the States in this field, so that the anomalies to which I have alluded can be rectified. 
I rise to support the States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill which extends the existing scheme of assistance to fruitgrowers which commenced in July 1972. The scheme is now extended by the terms of this Bill to the end of December 1976 and provides a further sum of $lm to assist in further tree removal. Before proceeding to deal with the real purpose of the Bill I want to deal briefly with a couple of points made by  Senator Gietzelt,  who spoke before me. I think he had been speaking for 25 minutes before he came to the real purpose of this Bill. He stated that the purpose of it was to assist the canning fruitgrowers, as distinct from fresh fruitgrowers, in Victoria. That is the prime purpose of the Bill. 
-I take the point on board but 70 per cent of the canning fruit in Australia is grown in Victoria. I accept the honourable senator's interjection that South Australia, in the Renmark-Berri area, and New South Wales, in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area, produce the balance. I hope that  Senator Gietzelt  's comments on freight equalisation relating to Tasmania are fully reported in the Tasmanian Press. I am sure that members of his party would not be very happy after reading those comments. The freight equalisation scheme relating to the fresh fruit industry in Tasmania is a good initiative of this 
Government and it is doing a great deal to assist the growers in that State. 
The legislation provides 2 forms of assistance. One is the clear fell, an agricultural term which means that the whole of a grower's orchard is removed and he can then retire from the industry. The second is a partial tree pull where part only of the orchard is removed and what is left will allow the farmer, the orchardist, to have the capacity to produce his share of what is now a very reduced market. I think it is worth stating that to qualify for the assistance, the recipient is required, whether it be partial or full tree pull, to enter into a mortgage agreement with the appropriate authority- in Victoria, the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission- that he will not replant the particular variety of fruit tree for a period of 5 years after the trees have been removed. Of course this ensures observance of the covenant. In practice, this creates no real difficulty because if the property is sold usually a personal covenant from the vendor is accepted, or alternatively the purchaser allows the mortgage to remain on title but gives priority to other borrowings by the purchaser. 
I think I should also mention that earlier this year the guidelines were liberalised to enable a greater percentage of growers to qualify for assistance. I think it is fair to say that the original guidelines for obtaining tree pull money were too restrictive. Through the State of Victoria, the Commonwealth Government doubled the asset entitlement to enable a greater number of growers to come into the field. This, coupled with the depressed land values by reason of the depressed state of the industry, has had a cumulative effect. The applicants have more than doubled since this new liberalisation of guidelines was introduced earlier this year. It is interesting to note that in 1972 and later when the scheme was introduced, dairying was then a reasonably thriving industry and there was a ready demand from dairy farmers for the land from which trees had been removed. But now of course, with the depressed state of the dairying industry, there are great problems about the use to which land from which trees have been removed is to be put. There are very grave limitations on the re-use of this land at present. Some of it can be put to vegetable growing but in the present depressed state of primary industry this is one of the additional problems which the orchardist has to face. 
In speaking on this Bill in the other place the honourable member for Murray made a plea for some amelioration of the conditions for partial tree-pull because the scheme is not achieving the purpose for which it was designed, that is, to reduce the acreage of trees- pear trees in particularto a level which will enable the crop to be sold. There are still some 2000 acres of excess pears for which there is no market and this is largely because under the restrictions in the partial tree-pull scheme growers are unable to get compensation for pulling out their trees. Some of these trees have not been sprayed and pruned, simply because the orchardist does not have the capital for that purpose. It is a fairly expensive operation.  "prose  who have been able to raise the capital have in some cases been cautious in their outlook because of the uncertainty of the prevailing markets, and uncertainty about whether the canneries will be able to take the fruit and whether a viable price will be paid for the fruit 
Another matter I would like to mention in relation to this problem is that the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee which is charged with the duty of fixing the price to be paid has not as yet announced prices for the coming year although apricots will be started to be picked in about a fortnight's time and peaches and pears will be picked shortly after. This creates greater uncertainty in the industry and now that devaluation has been announced the price should be set at the earliest possible moment to allow fruit growers a final opportunity before 3 1 December to exercise judgment in relation to further tree-pull. Obviously if they know the price they are going to get for their product they will be in a far better position to make a judgment on whether it is worth paying the high labour cost involved in getting their fruit to the canneries. There would be no more unfortunate plight for the grower than to be unable to make a reasoned and calculated decision about the area of trees he should take out because he has no information on the price of the product or the quantity of fruit that the canneries will take. In this regard I share some of the concern which  Senator Gietzelt  expressed but I remind him that the Government's announcement on devaluation is the first real ray of sunshine to appear on the horizon of the fruit industry after several dark, dismal and gloomy years. It is a major ray of sunshine not only for the canning fruit industry but also for our other great primary industries which still provide the major part of the export income of this nation. 
The Government's decision to devalue can only mean better times ahead for the industry. Of course, the amount of canned fruit sold on the export market has declined over recent years due to competition from South Africa, the European Common Market and America. I can recall that after World War II for a number of years the whole of the canned fruit pack was sold to Britain before it was off the tree under the Food for Britain scheme. There was a preferred market Now we have a changed situation and there is a tariff against the entry of our fruit into Britain, so there has been a dramatic change which has compounded the difficulties of the industry. When we consider the unfavourable exchange rate and the high labour cost across the board from the time the fruit is taken from the tree until it reaches the supermarket shelf in Australia or in the country to which it is exported we realise the problems which the industry faces. Despite the competition in the export field there is still a significant amount of total production which is exported and it is estimated that the devaluation decision will be worth between $65 and $80 per tonne to growers in respect of their canned fruit for export. I am certain that the industry in general and the growers in particular will welcome the Government 's decision. 
It is also fair to say that this will give a fillip to the industry. The canneries will be able to take more fruit than was at first thought necessary and markets overseas which were doubtful will be consolidated. Fruit that is sold on consignment in Australia will get the benefit also. Generally it is a brighter picture. If we couple with that decision the initiatives which have been taken by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in a Bill of this type the sole purpose and design of which is to reduce the amount of raw product to meet the available market and remove the excess raw product, we can see better days ahead for the industry. 
I would like to refer briefly in conclusion to the canning side of the industry in Victoria. There is a rationalisation proposal in relation to the 3 Victorian canneries in which 70 per cent of Australia's canned fruit is processed. I trust that this proposal will come to fruition as rationalisation is essential to the future of the industry. However, there are problems. The Shepparton Preserving Company Ltd is the biggest cannery in the Southern Hemisphere. The Kyabram Preserving Company Ltd is the second biggest and Ardmona Co-operative Fruit Products Co. Ltd is very high up the line. They are extensive commercial operations with a large share capital. In the case of the Kyabram and Ardmona companies a large proportion of the shares is held by the growers. In a situation where there are 3 commercial institutions there is great concern about which one ought to close. Because of the practical problems associated with this decision I commend the action taken by the Victorian 
Government in asking  Mr Ian  Moreton, the  Chairman  of the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission, to make an in-depth investigation of the 3 canneries and make recommendations to the State Government on initiatives it might take to assist this rationalisation proposal. Of course, it recognises that the final decision on whether a cannery closes must always rest with the shareholders of the company. The report of the  Chairman  of the Commission is now with the Victorian Government and all I wish to do at this stage is to stress to the people in the industry in Victoria the necessity for getting together and rationalising the production side of the industry. If that is done, with devaluation and the trimming of production to the available market, I can see better days ahead for this industry. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Has the Minister for Science seen newspaper reports to the effect that Government scientists are working on a plan to change the weather over Victorian wheat fields to increase production by an estimated $lm? Can he confirm the report, give some detail of the progress made to date and indicate when a final report might be available? 
I rise to support the Homes Savings Grant Bill 1976 and to oppose the amendment. If we look at the terms of the amendment we realise that there has been a misconception throughout the debate which has taken place both in the other House and in the Senate, in that the fundamental purpose of the legislation is to take pressure off the public sector in the housing area and to give to those people who are able to obtain the benefit and who have the incentive to save for the homes savings grant the opportunity ultimately to buy their own home. That means that more homes are available in the public sector for the people about whom  Senator Colston  was just talkingthose people who for a number of reasons perhaps are not able to qualify for the grant. 
I want to touch briefly on a statement made by  Senator Wriedt  who led in this debate for the Opposition. He said, in effect, that the scheme will make inevitable an increase in the price of housing. I think the purpose of the legislation is to encourage people to save, and that is a very worthy purpose. The legislation itself, I suggest, does not automatically increase the price of houses because the people who will qualify for the grant will build houses and, as I say, will not require houses in the public sector. So I do not think that this legislation can be fairly accused of increasing the price of housing. 
I shall deal now with another aspect of the arguments advanced by honourable senators opposite.  Senator Archer  referred to a statement made in the other place by a former Minister for Housing, which is, I suggest, completely irresponsible and which completely misconstrues the purpose of the legislation. What he says about the $2,000 for which people will qualify under the legislation is this - 
-That was  Mr Les  Johnson. He said: 
They would be receiving $2,000, at the expense of the taxpayer, whether they need it or not. They can do precisely what they like with it They can go for a trip to Bali or Bangkok. 
I will not quote the passage in full, but he went on to say: 
They can go and buy a fur coat with it or a Mercedes. They can go and blow it up at the Hilton. 
Anyone who has taken an interest in the 362 95 1 people who have already qualified for a grant under this legislation will know that the grant is very material in enabling those people to embark in the first place on building a house. The money does go into meeting the cost of building a house. I would say that that statement cannot be challenged because the proof is there. One has only got to talk to the young people today who are facing the problems of building a house to learn that it is quite certain that the money goes into the house. 
I suggest to  Senator Cavanagh  that it was quite irresponsible for a former Minister for Housing to make that statement. It would have been irresponsible enough if it had been made by a back bencher, but when it falls from the lips of a former Minister 1 think it needs correction. This legislation is a tribute to the devotion to his portfolio of the late  Senator Greenwood  and to his appreciation of the importance of housing to the general community. The provision of housing is a national problem, and it was one of the first areas within his portfolio at which he looked. With typical determination he produced a ministerial statement, I think, on 3 1 March last which formed the guidelines for this legislation and which in fact is incorporated in this legislation. I want to pay tribute to the clarity and conciseness with which he saw the problem and to the way in which he extended the criteria under which people could qualify for the grant. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General seen a report in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review  to the effect that certain employees of the Australian Legal Aid Office are refusing to join the Western Australian Legal Aid Commission to be established under legislation already passed by the Western Australian Parliament, which will cover the whole field of legal aid in that State? Can the Minister state whether or not employment will be available in the new Commission to the employees of the Australian Legal Aid Office under conditions not less favourable than those existing under their present arrangement? 
-Before the debate on this Bill was adjourned yesterday, I had dealt with arguments raised by the Opposition. I was looking at the various provisions of the Bill and examining how it had widened the area of the number of people who will now be eligible to qualify for the homes savings grant. The Government's initiatives under this Bill will considerably extend the area of operation of the previous legislation. It will give young people an additional incentive to save so that they will be able to purchase their own home with a maximum Government contribution by way of a homes savings grant of $2,000. 
There were a considerable number of restrictions on eligibility under the old legislation which I think ought to be mentioned. These were that the applicant had to be married, had to be under the age of 36 years, had to be an Australian citizen for a period of 3 years and had to be resident in Australia throughout that period. The criteria have been widened considerably. All that applies now is that the applicant must be an Australian citizen or have permanent resident status. The 3-year waiting period has been abolished. The applicant must be at least 18 years old and must be acquiring his first home. As I have stated previously, the maximum grant of savings has been raised to $2,000. In effect, to qualify for the maximum grant, the applicant must have saved a total amount of $6,000. But savings in respect of that amount may be in a much wider form than applies under the existing legislation. I think it is fair to say at this stage that all that increasing the amount of savings to $6,000 does is to keep pace with present and perhaps prospective inflation rates. There has been an inflationary growth over the last 3 or 4 years and the figures fixed under the old legislation are now out of date. 
The wider field of savings is worthy of mention. Deposits with savings banks, excluding savings bank cheque accounts; fixed deposits with trading banks; deposits and shares with building societies; deposits with a credit union and money paid towards the purchase of land or the construction of a home are all eligible and acceptable forms of savings for a person wishing to qualify under the scheme. The scheme has also been widened to allow more than one person to join in an application. For example, the legislation will allow a widow or widower and child, or a young couple with a widowed mother or mother-in-law to support, to make an application together provided that the application applies to their first home; that is the limitation. 
I wish to spend a few brief moments covering the question of a very important extension effected by clause 13 of the Bill. It enables a person or persons together who have entered into a contract for the construction of a dwelling house on rural property to qualify, even though the applicant or applicants may not have title to the land. This is a very important and worthwhile extension of the provision. This legislation will enable people in rural and remote areas to qualify for the first time. Sub-clause ( 1) of clause 13 of the Bill reads: 
Where- 
on or after 1 January 1977, a person has, or persons together have- 
entered into a contract for the construction by a building-contractor, on land situated in Australia, of a dwelling-house the construction of which commenced on or after that date; or 
commenced to construct, otherwise than through a building-contractor, on land situated in Australia, a dwelling-house; and 
The Secretary is satisfied that the land forms part of a rural property owned by another person (whether that other person holds the land as a trustee or not) who has given permission to the first-mentioned person or persons to occupy the dwelling-house when completed . . . 
That clause is important. It sets out in detail just what these qualifications are. It avoids the necessity and expense of survey fees and of applying to the municipality for permission to subdivide or for various permits which are now necessary under original development ordinances and town planning schemes. All in all, the Bill provides for a very worthwhile extension of the scheme to people in country areas. 
I conclude my short remarks by saying that this is a very worthwhile piece of legislation. It encourages the thrift and independence of young people. It teaches them to look after themselves. It encourages them to save and to be independent and not to look to government to support them at every turn. I commend the legislation to the Senate as a worthwhile piece of legislation. It can only do good for the vast number of people throughout Australia, particularly those young people who are endeavouring to acquire their first home. 
I have had some experience in my legal practice with cases of this type and I think I could usefully add something to this debate. Clause 13 is a good clause. It will enable the people it is designed to help to be assisted. What has been happening up to now is that when a son wishes to build a home on the family farm he has to survey a block of an acre or one and a half acres. The block may have to be of 10 acres if some sort of restriction applies under the town planning scheme or an interim development order for the municipality. People have been carrying out these surveys but it is a fairly costly business. This could still be done if a person wished to go through with the exercise and if he qualified for the homes savings grant. 
However, the extension in this clause would help in appropriate cases. I suggest that the legislation is designed primarily to assist in the fatherson situation on a family property. There is no suggestion that people in significant numbers in other situations would wish to qualify. I do not think that  Senator Primmer  was strictly accurate when he said that the parent would receive 2 homes savings grants. The homes savings grant would be paid, on the completion of the home, to the son or the applicant as he will be under the legislation. It will be paid once and for all and he will at least have that grant whatever happens to the house later. So the situation outlined by  Senator Primmer  will not arise. As the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has already mentioned, the problem of finance is not really difficult, because the parent will be in a position to put his title into a bank and guarantee the advance which will be necessary to enable the house to be built. Having looked at the situation in some detail, I feel that clause 13 is a worthwhile extension. I see no way in which it could be amended to improve it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. He will be aware of a recent statement by the Minister he represents to the effect that the Prices Justification Tribunal would be expected to hold back price increases caused by devaluation and that the Tribunal would be able to use its initiative under section 16 of the Prices Justification Tribunal Act for this purpose. Can the Minister say whether a constant monitoring of the position will take place and whether, if it is found that the requirement of public hearings is too lengthy and cumbersome, some other machinery will be devised to prevent unjustified price rises because of devaluation? 
I rise to make a few brief comments in support of the Bill, which is designed to remove some legal doubts regarding the imposition of the Commonwealth levy on whole milk and butterfat that is produced in Australia and subsequently vested in State milk authorities. The debate affords an opportunity to focus attention on the present difficulties of one of our great primary industries. Before coming to a few of those difficulties and dealing with them very briefly, I want to spend a little time dealing with the subject matter of the Bill, which is market research and promotion. It is true to say- I think our friends in the Opposition have said this-that the area of market research and promotion of manufactured dairy products has been neglected in the past; but the present depressed situation in the industry, which is due to the build-up around the world and in Australia of surplus dairy products, particularly skim milk powder, demands that for the good of the industry improvements in marketing techniques be considered an urgent necessity. So, it is pleasing to see a Bill of this nature so that we can focus some attention on the position. 
I do not want to go to any great length about this, but I think it is true to say that in Victoria in particular too much attention has been concentrated on skim milk powder, because it is a cheap throughput for the factory and there are no problems with it, and not enough attention has been given to diversification of manufactured products. Whilst I do not suggest that this is the sole cause of the present disabilities of the industrywe know that the build-up of skim milk powder in overseas countries has had a great deal to do with it-I do suggest that the manufacturing area of the industry is now at a stage where it should look at diversification. 
There are 2 matters to which I would refer briefly. One that comes to mind very readily has been mentioned already. It is the spreadability of butter. In contrast to its main competitor, margarine, which is readily spreadable and thus has an immediate marketing advantage, butter is unspreadable when taken from the refrigerator. We all know the problem there. I suggest that this is an area in which research may well pay useful dividends. My colleague,  Senator Archer,  has properly referred to the investigations by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in this area. I do not want to delay the Senate today by speaking at length on the problem. The fact is that the problem exists. It is one with which the research and promotion authorities under the legislation should grapple and hopefully come up with solutions. 
Coupled with this, we can look at cheeses. Here again I think there is a great need to look at the widening of manufacture in cheeses to incorporate the unusual and more sophisticated types of fancy cheeses, as there appears to be, and there is a great increase in consumer demand for these types. It behoves the manufacturing sector of the industry to take up these points in an endeavour to improve the marketing output of the manufactured product. I have spoken, on a number of occasions in the Senate this year, of the depressed state of the dairy industry. I know that I have referred to it in at least 2 previous speeches. As we know, the industry is particularly depressed in both Victoria and Tasmania. I do not wish to take up the time of the Senate today by repeating anything I said in earlier debates. 
I suggest that, whilst there has been good government initiative in the industry by way of price support, there will be no real improvement until demand is increased. As I have said, the research and promotion areas which this legislation supports are vital to the survival of the industry. In this regard I refer to  Senator Primmer's  remarks. He mentioned a 50c per lb price support figure, which we on the Government side agree was insufficient. For some time now it has been 60c per lb. This is still not sufficient. What  Senator Primmer  did not say is that the fixing of this price support is a matter of co-operation between State and Federal governments. The current scheme is to operate until 1 January next, which is very close to us. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has made it quite clear to the States on a number of occasions- he did so at a recent meeting with all the State Ministers in Sydney- that the Commonwealth is prepared to honour its continuing commitment. As I understand the position and as it was reported later, the State which stood out at the Sydney meeting was New South Wales, which has a Labor Premier. The Minister replied to a question in the other place yesterday on this very point. He said that, provided he can get co-operation from the States, he will extend this very necessary support to the industry until 30 June next. By that time it is to be hoped that legislation arising out of the first stage of the Crawford report will be available for a restructuring of the industry. The Crawford report has highlighted the position of the Australian Dairy Corporation as the marketing authority. This Bill will enable the Corporation to continue its work in the fields of research and promotion. 
I will now refer to a great problem in this industry. I am sorry that the shadow Minister for Primary Industry has left the chamber. He went back to the year, I think, 1955. 1 will bring him up to date by referring to the year 1971-72. The great problem of this industry was that in that year the subsidy paid to the industry amounted to $39.882m but it has dropped to $ 1.275m in the year 1975-76 which represents a decrease of 4000 per cent. It is quite obvious to us and even to blind Freddy who seems to be quoted around this place these days - 
-I am not talking about seeing eye dogs. I said that there has been a 4000 per cent decrease in subsidy which no industry, dairy or any other industry, could sustain. Those figures were produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in a publication headed  Public Authority Finance: Federal Authorities.  Let me compare the position of primary industry with that of secondary industry. I do not mean to be critical but I think it is fair to look at the situation when people say, as they do around Australia, that the farmer- primary industry- gets all the subsidies. That is simply not true. According to the Industries Assistance Commission subsidies paid to manufacturing industries in Australia amounted to $2,000m in 1971-72. A comparison of the dairy industry and secondary industry figures over the past 3 years when Labor was in office reveals that secondary industry is far more heavily subsidised than is primary industry; and of course, the dramatic drop in the subsidy by 4000 per cent has had a very crippling effect on the dairy industry. As to secondary industry, it was recently said by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that the taxpayers are subsidising the shipbuilding industry to the extent of $20,000 a year a man, and in the motor car industry there is a subsidy of $4,000 for each employee in the industry. That gives a vivid picture of the disproportion between this sector of primary industry and the various parts of secondary industry. 
I have a deep feeling of sympathy for the people involved in the dairy industry. These people work for long hours for a return which in many cases is well below the average minimum wage. I think there is a gleam of hope for the industry in the devaluation which was announced by the Government some days ago. In reply to a question in the other place yesterday the Minister cited a figure from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. He said that it is expected there will be an increase of about $9m in receipts for the industry as a result of the change in currency values. He went on to say: 
In addition, there is a quite significant improving in demand for dairy products in various world markets. 
I think one can have some optimism about the future of the industry. I trust that the Minister will keep a watch on the implementation of the Crawford report in the coming months and will ensure that the industry gets the necessary price support which it is at present getting. As the industry moves forward I hope that we will see better times in the years ahead. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. He will be aware of the statistics recently released which show that collection of company tax for the first 5 months of the financial year 1976-77 amount to only $50.7m as against a figure of $938m for the same period last financial year. This presumably is as a result of the abolition of quarterly company tax payments. Can the Minister confirm a report that the Government proposes to reintroduce quarterly company tax payments from the start of the 1 977-78 financial year? 
I rise to support the Bill. In an endeavour to save a little time later, I want to deal at once with the proposed amendments. I can do so very briefly. The amendments Nos. 1, 2 and 3 will upset the delicate structure of this scheme which now draws into one comprehensive piece of legislation all the various schemes which have been available to primary producers in recent times. For that reason alone, amendments Nos. 1, 2 and 3 should be rejected. So far as amendment No. 4 is concerned, the primary producers in Australia are sick of bureaucrats and boards. All that this amendment does is set up yet another Federal authority- a national rural adjustment board- when, at the moment, we have complete co-operation between the State governments and the Federal Minister in the administration of the existing proposals. That can continue. There is absolutely no necessity for another bureaucratic board to be set up under this legislation. I say that that amendment should be rejected. 
This Bill will give parliamentary approval for the execution of a new agreement by the Commonwealth and the States relating to rural adjustment. We will now have under one umbrella the previous rural reconstruction scheme, the dairy adjustment program and the carry-on finance scheme for beef producers. An entirely new form of assistance has been introduced- it is a very important one- known as household support. It will extend to those who have the greatest need for assistance, namely, those who are forced out of farming, in many cases due to circumstances beyond their control, and who have exhausted their cash and credit and have to make a final decision whether or not to leave the industry. It is important to note that all agricultural, horticultural and pastoral industries are included in this comprehensive legislation. As stated in the agreement Schedule to the Bill, the general principle to be applied is to distribute the available resources as widely as practicable. The overriding objective is to restore to economic viability those farms and farmers with a capacity to maintain viability once that object is achieved. 
I should like to deal very briefly with the various forms of assistance which are provided in the legislation. The first of these is debt reconstruction assistance, which is already provided for in the existing legislation. It is designed to help the applicant who has sound long term prospects but who is unable to obtain finance to carry on and thus puts his whole property and assets in jeopardy. The assistance may be provided for rearrangement or composition of debts to allow more time for repayment. Finance will be available for a wide range of assistance, including repayment of all or part of the debts secured on the property, and for carry-on expenses, livestock and further property development. 
The next form of assistance, and a very important one, is known as farm build-up. In relation to this type of legislation, since it was introduced 2 or 3 years ago it has proved very useful to the dairy industry in Victoria. It has a double effect in that in the first place it allows the farmer whose property is too small and no longer viable, having regard to the depressed market conditions for the product, to retire from the industry with some dignity and with the cash value of his equity in the property. In the second place, the farmer who buys the property becomes a more viable unit. The terms and conditions on which money is supplied to him are very generous both as to interest and repayment. The practice in Victoria has been to lend the whole of the purchase money to the farmer staying in the industry to enable him to take over the other property. Thus there is a reduction in the number of farmers, the people staying in become viable, and the nonviable people get out. It is a very useful piece of legislation. 
A further form of assistance is the extension of the dairy adjustment program to the whole of the primary producing sector. The purpose of this type of assistance is to restore an existing farm to economic viability without adding to its areaand that is slightly different from the previous provision. Before it is available, the applicant will have to demonstrate that his existing farm has been a viable proposition and that the purpose for which the assistance is being given will with some degree of certainty restore the property to long term viability. I should add that in relation to all the finance provided under these schemes there is a common factor. If the applicant can get finance elsewhere, it is not provided by the Government. That is the test, and it is a very useful test which will mean that the deserving cases will get assistance. 
The next type of assistance to which I wish to refer is that known as rehabilitation. The purpose, as set out in the agreement, is to provide limited assistance to those obliged to leave the industry where in the opinion of the authority administering the scheme it is necessary to alleviate conditions of personal hardship. In order to qualify an applicant must have sold his property to a purchaser under the farm build-up provisions which I mentioned earlier- that is the small man getting out. The second condition is that he will suffer financial hardship after his property has been sold, having regard to his financial position at that stage. For instance, the assistance will cover a small farmer who has very little equity in his property. He may have a heavy mortgage on it, and this provision will enable him to receive assistance. The nature of the assistance is a loan to a maximum of $5,000. The Authority has a discretion not only to fix the interest rate in terms of repayment but also a very valuable additional discretion to convert the loan to a grant. Undoubtedly this will materially assist non-viable people wishing to retire from the dairy industry m Victoria. 
The next type of assistance provided by the legislation is what is termed carry-on finance. It covers the situation where the States agree that an industry has real short term problems because of a severe market downturn or something else. It is a short term arrangement. When there is a problem such as drought or over supply assistance can be given, by agreement, to help people in the short term. 
I do not want to delay the Senate any longer than necessary but I want to say a little about household support. This is a new and very worthwhile provision which, in the terms of the agreement, will provide assistance for up to one year to non-viable farmers having insufficient resources to meet living expenses and who are in need of assistance to alleviate conditions of personal and family hardship while they decide whether to adjust out of farming. I took that statement from the agreement. The test of eligibility in this case, as provided by the agreement, is that the applicant must be assessed as nonviable in the long term, must be unable to obtain financial assistance from any normal source, as I mentioned earlier, and will suffer personal or family hardship. These provisions will alleviate that situation. There is an important limitation in that the amount of assistance which can be obtained is geared to the amount of unemployment benefits. Some of the proposed amendments to this Bill would cut across this principle which I think is a very basic one. I do not think any primary producer in Australia wants to finish up better off by means of government assistance than an employee who happens to be getting unemployment benefits. 
I do not want to go into all the details of this new household support scheme because there are 13 paragraphs relating to it, but I do want to say that considerable elasticity and discretion are vested in the State authority which will administer it in order that there is a range of assistance available for a particular case. That is a very valuable feature of the legislation because it is not until schemes of this type are put into operation that the hard cases emerge. Occasionally there is necessity for an administrative discretion to be exercised in favour of a person who might not qualify otherwise. That is a very valuable provision. Likewise, there is provision for a lump sum payment where a person eligible for household support wishes to adjust out of farming. At the discretion of the authority that person can receive a lump sum payment in lieu of household support. 
Finally, I want to say a few words about the basis of financing this legislation. Funding of the household support scheme will be the complete responsibility of the Commonwealth. The other forms of assistance will be met by an advance by the Commonwealth to the States, 85 per cent in the form of loan and 15 per cent in the form of grant. The rate of interest on the loan component will be 7 per cent but this will be subject to adjustment to the long term bond rate of interest. Provision is made for the sharing of the cost of administration. For the 6 months from 1 January to 30 June 1977 the Commonwealth is making available $20m. The details of the split-up of that sum are set out in the second reading speech made in the other place by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It was pleasing to note that in that speech he indicated that the rural bank concept and the young farmers' establishment scheme are under consideration by the Government. The legislation we are now discussing may require some adjustment when those matters are brought before the Parliament, hopefully next year. I commend the Bill to the Senate. It is a very worthwhile initiative on the part of the Government to assist all those persons in the primary industry sector who at present are suffering distress. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry by referring to a statement by the Minister for Primary Industry on 26 January last when he said that the Japanese Wool Spinners Association had expressed grave concern at the contamination of Australian wool resulting in damage to their plant and a depressing effect on wool demand and prices paid. Their comments were supported by figures taken over a period of several months which indicated that foreign matter such as cigarette butts, metal and papers contaminated upwards of 25 per cent of the bales. In view of the probable adverse effect on our export wool trade, can the Minister say what action can be taken to remedy the situation? 
-I direct my question to  Senator Cotton  in his dual capacity of representative of the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer. My question relates to the Government's announced decision in its election policy to establish a national rural bank. Whilst appreciating the complex matters which require consideration before practical steps can be taken to set up such an institution, I ask the Minister whether he can give some indication of progress made with the necessary preliminary investigation. Can he also give some indication of when the bank is likely to be established? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a recent statement by  Mr Kennedy, Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission, foreshadowing some rise in postal rates after 30 June next. Can the Minister indicate whether any decision on increases has been made? If no decision has been made, can the Minister say whether the Government will consider allowing the Australian Postal Commission to borrow for necessary new capital works with a view to avoiding any increase in charges to the taxpayers? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations say whether any statistics are available in relation to the previous occupations of people receiving unemployment benefit? In particular, can he say whether a report that 40 per cent of present unemployment beneficiaries voluntarily left their immediate previous employment before establishing eligibility to receive benefit is correct? 
I rise to support this Bill, which is one of four that relate to proposals to be submitted to the Australian electorate by way of referendum for constitutional reform. I shall state my attitude to this legislation at the outset because of recent media reports which have been grossly inaccurate. I support the Government in relation to this legislation and I will be supporting the Yes case in the electorate. I think that in a debate of this nature it is important for us to get the fundamental principles clear at the outset. There is a difference between the legislation now before the Senate and the ordinary, run of the mill legislation that comes before the Senate. The vital difference is that all the Senate is doing with this legislation is allowing the people of Australia to have the opportunity to pass judgment on proposed constitutional amendments. To that extent it is different. 
I am mindful of the statements made by  Senator Harradine  to the effect that this is an attempt by the Government to change the ground rules. Nothing is further from the truth. The Constitution is not the document of the Senate; it is not the document of the House of Representatives; it is not the document of any parliament in Australia: It is the document of the people of Australia. The founding fathers set down the rules under which the Constitution could be altered and from time to time it has been the prerogative of parliaments to submit questions to the people of Australia in that day. It will not be the Government which will be changing the ground rules, if they are to be changed; it will be the people of Australia. Surely as a democratic principle it is right and proper that that should be so. 
In the time allotted to me in this debate I want to say a few words about democracy in Australia. I think it is fundamental to the debate we are having that the democratic right of the people of Australia to pass judgment on this legislation should be accorded them. In Australia recently there have been tendencies to deprive people and organisations of their democratic right to make up their minds on questions for decision free of threat or intimidation. I am not suggesting for a moment that any of my friends here today are using threats or intimidation. It is useful to underline the principles of parliamentary democracy and democracy in Australia as we know them. 
I think that the events during the recent conference of the Australian Union of Students should sound a warning note to all of us that the university campus, which is where one would expect there to be complete unanimity on the defence of such fundamental democratic principles as freedom of thought and freedom of expression, is not the place where one now finds it. I mention this matter in passing. I will not take up too much time on it. An article in the  Australian  newspaper of 29 January under the heading Phoney student thugs use spit and abuse to create terror' supports my claim about is what now goes on. If one looks at events in the trade union movement, which  Senator Harradine  referred to today, one will see examples of the denial of democratic rights. I make no apology for stressing in this debate the democratic right of the people of Australia to make up their minds in this regard. I support the legislation primarily for that reason. 
I turn now to the previous referenda held in Australia. It is notorious that the track record of the Yes cases in previous referenda is not good. We all know that a large number of the propositions which have been submitted to the Australian , people . since Federation have been rejected; but it is still fundamental that we should not deprive the people of the opportunity to decide. It is a very necessary part of our democratic system. I think it is right and proper that the people should decide. I also think it is right and proper that there should be a Yes case and a No case. But I do not think that this forum should be used to deny people the opportunity to vote upon the matter. In my view, much of what has been said in this Parliament ought to be said out on the hustings. I have no doubt that it will be. To pass premature judgment before the people have had an opportunity to express their views is, I think, not in the best interests of parliamentary democracy. 
The Government has been influenced in its decision by the widespread support accorded to these 4 proposals at the Australian Constitutional Convention held in Hobart towards the end of last year.  Senator Harradine  and  Senator James  McClelland, neither of whom is in the chamber at present, have said that certain people on this side of the chamber said certain things in 1974 and now they are not being consistent.  Senator James  McClelland attacked my Leader. I share with him what is obviously, in the eyes of  Senator James  McClelland, the doubtful affinity of being a provincial lawyer. There are some other provincial lawyers on this side of the Senate. I remind  Senator James  McClelland that in 1974 Gough Whitlam made one of his several blunders. He went to the people with a referendum before holding a constitutional convention. We all know that the recent history of constitutional conventions shows that in their early days they were not accepted by the people but I do not think anyone can deny that that is not the case today. 
I was sorry to hear  Senator Harradine  denigrating the Constitutional Convention held in Hobart last year. What we have to remember, despite what  Senator Harradine  said about the people wanting an opportunity to have a say, is that all sections of the community were represented at that Convention in Hobart. There were representatives from local government, State governments, the Federal Government, the Federal Parliament and the State parliaments. I say to my friends who are opposed to this legislation that that Convention represented as good a cross section of the 3 tiers of Government in Australia as you could get. A strong recommendation came forward from it supported by people of both political persuasions. You can call them socialist and anti-socialists if you like but there was strong support at that Constitutional Convention, on both sides of the political spectrum, for this proposal and the other three proposals. 
I support the Government's view that the people of Australia should be given the opportunity to pass judgment on these questions. It is fair to say, in this context, that when we are looking at questions of constitutional reform they ought to be above party politics. I have referred before to the poor track record of 'yes' cases in the past but it is fair to say that when people on both sides of the political spectrum are prepared to support proposals the Government is under a duty to give the people an opportunity of passing judgment. 
I want to stress that point particularly because I think it is of fundamental importance to the Government's case. I think the Government's case has been misunderstood in a number of areas and the media are not doing much to correct that misunderstanding. The Constitutional Convention of 1975 will be a hallmark in the history of Australia. There is great need for constitutional reform in a number of areas and hopefully this will be one of the first instalments. I hope that in the future we will see co-operation on both sides of the political fence to achieve amendments to the Constitution which the passage of time since Federation has made not only desirable but necessary. 
I want to spend a few moments on the Bill we are discussing which relates to the question of simultaneous elections. I have referred already to the differences between the situation in 1974 and that of last year. The question of saving expense has been mentioned by  Senator Missen  and I will not traverse it again. However, if we look to the future and see what the present constitutional provision could require if there is no amendment to it we find that there could be as many as 4 elections between 1978 and 198 1 and as many as 14 elections in the 20-year period from 1961 to 1981. One only has to move around the Australian electorate to find out that the people of Australia are heartily sick of elections, that they think that there are too many of them, particularly separate elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives. If we look at the number of Senate elections since Federation we find that of the 28 Senate elections, 24 have been simultaneous elections, which is just over 80 per cent of the total, and there have been 4 halfSenate elections at times different from House of Representatives elections, and 4 elections as a result of double dissolutions. It is interesting to note that the 2 Houses of Parliament got out of kilter in the early 1960s and I think that almost all of those separate elections have been held in the period since then. 
I do not care who put them out of kilter; we are looking to the future, not to the past. It is trite to say that simultaneous elections will make for more stable government. A government will know that it will have a 3-year term to serve. That is important in an age and era when strong, positive government is required to solve the complex problems which face the nation. It has been a practice in the State houses to have simultaneous elections. 
-No, not Queensland. You cannot pull up your socks if you have none,  Senator Colston.  I suppose that that is a further reason why this proposal should be supported. I realise that there are divergent views in the Senate and people who have been in this chamber for much longer that I hold very strong views about the immutability of some of the provisions relating to the power of the Senate. I concede that point. I concede the democratic right to put the 'no ' case. However I feel that in 1 977 in Australia the Australian people should be given the opportunity to pass judgment on this question, particularly as it was supported by such a wide spectrum of responsible elected representatives in the 3 tiers of government at the Hobart Convention in 1976. 1 support the legislation and commend it to the Senate. 
It is my privilege today to second the motion so ably moved by my Victorian colleague,  Senator Lewis.  I congratulate him on the excellence of his maiden speech in the Senate. I am certain that in the times that lie ahead his contributions to debates in this chamber will be equally thoughtful and of the same high standard as he exhibited today. I compliment him also on highlighting the problems of primary producers in this country.  His  comments in that regard show that he has a keen appreciation and deep knowledge of the great problems which beset the primary industries in Australia. I, of course, join with him in expressing the thanks of the Senate to our Sovereign Lady the Queen who has so graciously opened this session of the thirtieth Parliament. Coming as she does in the twenty-fifth year of her reign, we are conscious of the honour she has bestowed not only on the Senate but also on the nation. In seconding this motion I am speaking for the Government. May I, on behalf of those I represent in this place, express our complete and undivided loyalty to  Her  Majesty in person and also, at the same time, to the British Crown. 
It is well for us on occasions such as this to reflect that the remaining constitutional links with our mother country are embodied in the Crown, represented here this week by the Queen in person. It is also well for us to remember that we have a form of government known as a constitutional monarchy. In this day and age in which we live there are those among us- I hasten to say that I am not one of them- who espouse the cause of cutting the ties which link us with the British Crown and of establishing, in heu thereof, some form of republican government in this country by doing away with our role as a constitutional monarchy. In a democratic society, such as we are still privileged to enjoy in this country, one cannot deny the right to those who advocate such principles to project them. But so strong are the links which bind us and so great are the tangible and intangible benefits which our allegiance has produced over so many years that I am confident that any such proposal will be rejected by a majority more overwhelming than that which swept us into government at the last federal election. 
However, whatever one might prognosticate in this regard, I think there is unanimous agreement among the people of Australia that  Her  Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II, since her accession to the throne in 1952, has not spared herself in the service of her peoples. She has brought to her very difficult and exacting task a public presence which is sincere and which commands universal respect. Today we pay tribute to her success in the role of monarch and also as Queen of Australia. This is a task which demands endurance, hard work, dedication, patience and the ability to put aside her personal desires and preferences as exemplified in her devoted service to her peoples in Britain and elsewhere over the last quarter of a century. It has been said in recent times that a head of state, monarch or otherwise, symbolises at least to some extent the ideals and principles which the nation, collectively, holds dear. The qualities which are ultimately important to any country's wellbeing are, without attempting to state them exhaustively, selflessness, dedication and moral strength. These are some of the very qualities which our Sovereign Lady the Queen has displayed consistently in the 25 years of her reign. In my maiden speech in this place just a year ago- it is to be found in the Senate  Hansard  of 25 February 1976 at page 217-1 stated: 
It has always been my belief that the maintenance of the family as a basic unit of society is essential to our way of life in our Australian democracy. There can be no more noble vocation than that of spouse and parent. This, of course, is irrespective of whether the spouse and parent is the male of the species or the female of the species. The role of the father is equally important to that of the mother in the moulding and formation of the character of a child. 
The happy family life of Her Majesty the Queen affords us an opportunity of restating those sentiments. Her successful combination of the roles of wife and mother with the very exacting, demanding and time-consuming tasks of the reigning British monarch are a shining example to ah' of us as to how a proper balance can be preserved between which might be termed the public and private role which she is called upon to play in society, without neglecting either of those roles. Of course, there are numerous examples of other women in the community who successfully combine these dual roles. However, in Australia today there are ominous signs that we are moving or that we have already moved to a serious situation in the breakdown of the family as a unit in society. One has only to look at the marriage and divorce statistics to reinforce this argument. 
The lack of personal selfdiscipline in moral matters- I hope  Senator Georges  knows something about that- and the enormous number of broken marriages with consequent distress not only to the contracting parties but also, perhaps more importantly, to the offspring of such marriages, is well known and is a fact of everyday life in Australia today. I stress these things because, without appearing sanctimonious, I point out that from the biblical days of Sodom and Gomorrah history is strewn with the wrecks of civilisations which failed to recognise the fundamental necessity for selfdiscipline in matters which touch on the sanctity of the family and on the maintenance of the family as a unit in society. I have before me figures relating to marriage and divorce rates for Australia in each State up to 1975 which is the last available full year. For Australia as a whole the number of marriages celebrated was 103 973 and the number of divorces was 24 307. The table sets out the figures State by State. I seek leave for that table to be incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="072232197703094_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

If the honourable senator looks at the figures when they appear in  Hansard  he will see. The important thing is what the statistics reveal. They reveal that in that period upwards of 25 per cent of marriages celebrated were due to be dissolved. Subsequent history, of course, has produced even more alarming figures. Although precise figures are not yet available it has been stated that following the proclamation of the Family Law Act Australia can expect a divorce rate of some 60 000 a year. So if we accept the 1975 figures for marriages celebrated we are looking at a figure of up to 50 per cent of those marriages which are celebrated in Australia being dissolved by the Family Court, in many cases a short time after they have been celebrated. 
-Perhaps not, but I think the figures illustrate the growing trends. 
These figures indicate that the family as a unit in society may well be on the way to complete disintegration. I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that these matters are very important for the future of this nation. The occasion of the visit of  Her  Majesty the Queen affords us an opportunity of considering this situation in the proper context. Broken marriages bring in their wake an added strain on the social service payments of the country. Even more important is the irreplacable loss of the loving care and attention which surely every child has the right to expect from both parents. Apart from the economic situation and the problems for the Government and the individual, the trauma and the psychological effect on the child cannot be measured in terms of money. The actual monetary payments in 1975-76 by way of widows' pensions for widows and deserted wives amounted to $147m. The cost of benefits paid to deserted wives, supporting mothers, unmarried mothers and deserted  de facto  wives is $127m. I do not know what proportion of the first figure I quoted is paid to deserted wives. But, having regard to the divorce rate, a significant part of that figure would be paid to deserted wives. 
It is interesting to look at the figures in relation to school age children for the year 1974. Of the 1.3 million children in Australia between the ages of 4 and 11 years, one out of four has neither parent at home during working hours and at least 16 000 are left at home each day alone. A straw sample of parents, which bears no relationship to the number of children a family, shows that in a number of working families no arrangements were made for the care of 43 700 children; 53 200 children were left in the care of friends and relatives while other arrangements were made for 13 500 children. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  gave figures as at the end of May 1976, 1 think it was, which showed that there were some 200 000 children in the 4 to 1 1 years age group with both parents in the labour force. We have a new phrase in Australian jargon today- 'latch key children'. They may be defined as children whose parents are in the work force. The children come home from school, get the key, open up the house and wait for their parents to come home. 
The statistics which I have quoted in some detail are all the more alarming when we look at them in terms of preserving the family unit as basic to the welfare of our democracy. I stress these figures as being relevant also to the consideration of the role of women in society today. I am very mindful of the fact that economic necessity in many cases compels the wife and mother to join the work force. But it is generally accepted that very young children have an absolute need for a mother's care and attention and can suffer severe deprivation if, during those tender years, they are put in the care of persons outside the home. A great deal of juvenile crime, drug addiction and criminality generally can be traced to the almost physical disintegration of the family as a functioning social mechanism. Some of these problems are reaching almost plague proportions. Many of the aberrations I have mentioned are not connected with poverty but attack equally the affluent and middle classes of society. 
I refer the Senate to the concern expressed by  Dr Judianne  Densen-Gerber who has a wide background in the treatment and rehabilitation of hard drug addicts and the problems of youth in America. She works with the Odessy Foundation. Many honourable senators would have seen the Press reports of an address by her at the National Press Club in Canberra on 1 March. The  Australian  newspaper of the following date reported that she said that more than 600 000 American children under 16 years of age were involved in prostitution and pornography. The article states: 
Thousands of runaway children were being procured or tricked into selling themselves for sexual purposes, prostitution and pornography. 
She also said that United States child pornography was a multi-million dollar business. 
I reserve judgement on that, senator. The point I make is that although her statements relate to the American situation concern must be expressed for the situation in Australia which does appear to be following the American pattern. I suggest that a strong case can be made for not penalising a woman who chooses to devote her time exclusively to her vocation and role in society as a wife and mother. Indeed, in the current climate of unemployment one would think that women with family responsibilities should be discouraged from entering the work force unless doing so is a matter of economic necessity. Some more positive steps could be expected from government by way of allowances to a family where the wife and mother is not engaged in outside employment but is totally absorbed in her duties in the home. Also I suggest that the Government should consider paying some allowance to such women in lower income families. In the present unemployment situation the voluntary reduction in the number of married women in the work force should assist in dissipating the problem of youth employment which is one of the grave problems of the day. 
The extension of government activity into the social services field has been precipitated by the breakdown in family life and by the increasing necessity to provide social service amenities for the products of broken homes. I have already instanced the cost of social services in this regard, $2 74m annually, and it is true to say that every additional broken home adds to the social services bill of the nation. This should alert the Government to contrast the increasing costs in this area with its financial commitment to those fortunate children and parents who have the advantage of a contented and happy family background, which fortunately is still the case in the majority of families in Australia, and who do not cost the Government one cent apart from the universal family allowance payment. I acknowledge the great step forward by our Government in providing the family allowance which help families in the lower income group who previously, because their incomes were so low and families so large, did not get the benefit of taxation deductions. The family allowance is a definite step in the right direction. 
I am mindful also that in recent amendments to the Marriage Act the Government has taken certain legislative steps which hopefully will stem the rising divorce rate to some extent. These measures include lengthening the time for notice of intended marriage from 7 days to a minimum of one month and the necessity for the officiating celebrant to give the parties to the intending marriage a document setting out the solemnity of the marriage contract, the obligations it creates between the parties and outlining the obligations and consequences of marriage as well as indicating the availability of both premarital education and marriage counselling. This is at least some indication by the Government of its concern for the problem. I now urge it to investigate the payment of an allowance to the woman who chooses to devote all of her time to her vocation of wife and mother, particularly in cases where the family is in straitened economic circumstances. 
In the short time left to me in this debate, I wish to make brief reference to the twin evils of unemployment and inflation which still beset the nation. I have said before in this chamber, and I repeat again, that there is a basic economic principle involved, that is, that inflation, wage restraint and unemployment are totally interdependent and interrelated. Our Government has designed a strategy to bring inflation down. If one ignores the Medibank component of the consumer price index for the last quarter, because it is a once only item, the increase in the consumer price index for that quarter was reduced to 2.8 per cent. This compares more than favourably with the 6.2 per cent rise in the December quarter of 1975. The introduction of the contributory Medibank scheme meant a saving of $2,000m in the Health vote of the nation and meant that the Government was able to maintain and improve the level of expenditure in other important areas such as social welfare and education. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said, the effect on the consumer price index of such once and for all influences as the health insurance changes has nothing to do with the underlying inflationary pressures in the economy. The Treasurer has produced a table which was published in the form of table 6 of Budget Statement 2 which was attached to the Budget Speech. It gives a comprehensive picture of the consumer price index showing the percentage changes and the annual rate of the index in half year stages for 1974, 1975 and 1976. The table shows a considerable reduction in the inflation rate particularly in the second half of 1 976. 1 seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="072232197703094_22_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072232197703094_23_2.jpg"></graphic>

Our Government has brought down the underlying rate of inflation from 16.7 per cent at the end of 1975 to 8 per cent after its first 12 months in office. A recent statement by the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd- I think it was made in the Bank's  Quarterly Survey  published last weekurged community leaders to stop harping on the gloomy side of things and instead to acknowledge that economic progress is being made. I think that this is the attitude we ought to be taking at the present dme. Indeed, the Bank's latest edition of  Business Indicators  shows that following 2 years of near stagnation the economy is now making some mild expansion, and on present trends the improvement in non-farm production this financial year seems likely to exceed 4 per cent. The statement by the Bank goes on to say that enterprise, profits, productivity and standards of living are the responsibility of management. They are not necessarily the responsibility of investors, workers and government. Those sections should not be urged to guarantee them or force feed business to ensure quick recovery. Of course, the true position is that the greater the co-operation between the private and public sectors of the economy and the forces of capital and labour, the quicker will be the recovery of economic stability. 
I would like to say a few words briefly about the unemployment position. I think it is fair to say, as was said here today during question time, that the statistics available do not really give a completely accurate picture either as to job vacancies or the actual number of persons unemployed. We all know of numerous instances in commerce and industry where employers engage staff without reference to the Commonwealth Employment Service. This is done either through private employment agencies or by advertisements in the Press. Having regard to this factor alone, there must be a wide discrepancy between the number of job vacancies registered and the actual number of positions available. A further disturbing feature which has recently come to light concerns the fact that 40 per cent of unemployment beneficiaries voluntarily left their last position of employment before becoming recipients of the unemployment benefit. The Government has set up the Norgard committee. When it presents its final report in the next few weeks I sincerely trust that some of the present inconsistencies and irregularities will be ironed out. In particular, I hope that the situation in regard to persons automatically receiving full unemployment benefit after voluntarily leaving their previous employment will be dealt with. 
In the few moments left to me, I wish to refer to a quote from the Speech of Her Majesty to the Parliament yesterday. I quote this passage be-, cause it epitomises the efforts of our Government to restore an efficient economy and to move along the track which we commenced along when we were returned as the Government in 1975. She said: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern; commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people; and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
The commitment of my Government to these goals stems from the conviction that the progress of Australia as a nation depends on creating the conditions which foster the strength, independence and creativity of its people. 
Our Government is irrevocably committed to the course so clearly outlined by Her Majesty. I can assure her, and also the people of Australia who are listening to this debate, that during the life of this Parliament it will be our earnest endeavour to bring those policies to fruition. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has the attention of the Attorney-General been directed to recent Press reports that a large quantity of pornographic literature, which includes photographs dealing particularly with acts of depravity committed on children, is being sold readily to the public in a number of States? Can the Minister indicate what steps the AttorneyGeneral can take to prohibit the sale and distribution of scurrilous publications of this nature? 
I present the following petition from 229 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government should totally finance national highways and half the cost of constructing and maintaining all other public roads. 
That since current road funding arrangements have seen a deterioration in road assets, this backlog in construction and maintenance needs to be reduced by the Commonwealth 
Government undertaking to make a larger financial contribution. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister for Science seen a Press report relating to a new building brick developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and now being produced in commercial quantities at Albury on the New South WalesVictorian border? Can the Minister give figures relating to the cost of production of the new brick compared with other standard types of brick already in production? Have the CSIRO tests indicated that the new type of brick will have durability and quality similar to that of existing types? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: In view of the reported abuses of the Medibank system by a small minority of doctors, can the Minister say whether the existing staff techniques are adequate to detect abuses and to follow them up with prosecutions? 
-Can the Minister for Education say whether all places at Australian universities have been filled for the current year? If all places have not been filled, has the Minister any details of the universitios and courses in which there are vacant places? Is any research being undertaken by his Department as to the future demand on universities, including those still under construction, having regard to the present and projected fall in population growth? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen a statement yesterday by one of the aspiring leaders of the Opposition, the honourable member for Oxley, to the effect that Australia could face another currency devaluation? The statement is reported at page 506 of the House of Representatives  Hansard.  In view of the uncertainty which such irresponsible statements create in the field of industry and commerce will the Minister reassure the Australian people that no such step is contemplated by the Government in the immediate future? 
I rise to support the 3 Bills now before the Senate which are being dealt with in a cognate debate. The purpose of these Bills is to extend the support provided under the apple and pear stabilisation scheme for 1 976 to exports of apples and pears in the 1977 season. It is important to realise at the outset that we are dealing only with the export section of the industry which comprises only a fairly small part of the whole industry throughout Australia. I think it is true to say that the problems apparent in the export section do not exist to any great degree in the internal marketing of apples and pears grown in Australia. 
The Industries Assistance Commission prepared a report on this industry. It is fair to say that last year the Government made some temporary provisions pending its detailed consideration of that report. I think we have to agree, in fairness to the Government when considering this legislation, that the IAC's recommendation for this year was $ 1 per bushel for apples and the Government has increased that to $2. That is a 100 per cent increase. The Government rejected that part of the IAC report which said that the industry should receive only $ 1 per bushel for the 1977 season. 
I think we have to look at the problems of this industry in reasonable depth and I want to refer the Senate to the IAC report. The IAC made a thorough investigation into the problems of the industry. A passage appearing on page 3 of its report is a short one but it sets out in clear and concise terms the problems of this industry in the export field. It states: 
Australia has many competitive disadvantages in producing and exporting apples and pears. Among these are Australia's remoteness from the major world markets in Europe and North America (apples and pears are costly to transport); relative movements in exchange rates (the Australian currency has tended to appreciate relative to the currencies of other southern hemisphere exporters); the high cost of Australian labour (apple and pear growing is labour intensive); and the technical opportunities which have arisen for extending the season for northern hemisphere apples through controlled atmosphere cool storage. 
I think that is an excellent comprehensive summary of the problems which afflicted the export section of this industry. Looking at it for a moment, one has to concede that devaluation to some extent restored the imbalance of the Australian currency as opposed to overseas currencies. We must not forget, in the present climate of high wages throughout Australia, that a labour intensive industry has grave problems. We have to remember that during the 3 years of the previous Government wages escalated well upwards of 50 per cent but there was no corresponding increase in the gross national product. That was one of the underlying reasons for the inflation growth in that period. 
I mention these matters at the outset because I think it is important, when looking at an industry of this kind, to examine the underlying causes of the malaise in the industry. One then must look at what sort of assistance can be given either to restore it completely to health or to prop it up until better times come. In looking at this situation we have to look at the terms of the present subsidy and see how it works in the industry. Again I quote from page 3 of the IAC report: 
The Commission has found these schemes to be expensive to the community. They encourage the continuation of production for unprofitable export sales. They have also been generally inefficient in assisting the growers in most need. For example, in 1973-74 direct marketing subsidies averaging $14,000 per grower provided Tasmanian apple growers with net farm incomes which averaged less than $6,000. A large proportion of these growers earned substantially less than $6,000. But despite such high level of support, the continuing downward pressure on export incomes has resulted in a major reduction in exports of apples and pears. 
In my own State we have a somewhat parallel situation in the canning fruit industry. In looking at the situation the question to be posed is this: If it is costing $14,000 per grower, as the report suggests, to produce an average net income of $6,000 one must wonder just how effective and efficient this sort of support is to an industry because somewhere or other $8,000 per grower is disappearing. Of course, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, and probably correctly, the export market is not improving so one can look forward to a worsening of the situation. I mention these things because I think they must be considered when we are considering a subsidy to an industry because after all it involves taxpayers' money. We must be certain that we are getting value for money and the money is going in the direction where it will do the most good. 
The Government has taken the attitude that it will provide the subsidy at the rate of $2 per bushel for this year and that that is as far as it will go. In looking at the Government's decision in this matter it is important to look at the other forms of assistance available.  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred to the second reading speech in the Senate by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers.  He quoted a passage from page 315 of  Hansard.  I shall not repeat that passage. It deals with the supplementary assistance program for 1977 and states that an additional $lm was provided to assist apple exports. I refer to the position of the States in this matter. The Minister went on: 
The position of the fruit industry is quite serious and I am sure that the combination of the extension of the stabilisation scheme and the supplementary assistance will help to overcome many of the difficulties that producers now face. Some State governments have not been inclined to support this additional measure, however. Subject to finalisation of arrangements, this may result in significantly less assistance to the apple and pear industry in those States than that available elsewhere in Australia. 
It is important to realise that the States have a role in this situation. I hope the Senate will not echo some of the sentiments one hears around Australia about the problems which Australia faces being problems caused by the Commonwealth Government. Undoubtedly, some are but where joint ventures and joint funds are concerned, the States are under an equal obligation. It is important too to realise that the Government introduced the rural reconstruction scheme on a much wider basis. The legislation went through the Senate on the last day of the 1976 sitting. That legislation provides a substantial extension of assistance to the unfortunate primary producers, not only in the apple and pear industry but also the dairying industry and the canning fruit industry. Because of the marketing situation, in many cases created primarily by Great Britain's entry into the Common Market, many exporters find themselves in a situation where their only recourse is to retire from the industry. The Government's initiative in introducing rural reconstruction should not be overlooked in a debate of this kind. When we are looking at the domestic fruit market I think the Government's initiatives in relation to the freight equalisation scheme, which benefited Tasmanian growers, are worth looking at, although the scheme caused some concern to growers on the mainland. But that is an indication of the Government 's concern for this industry. 
Earlier I mentioned devaluation. I mention it again as an initiative of the Government which will assist this export industry, as it assists other primary producing export industries. I think we have to look at the situation of this industry in the context of other primary producing industries which face somewhat similar difficulties. I have mentioned the canning fruit industry in my area. The situation is that almost 50 per cent of the producers have accepted the fact that they will have to retire from the industry. Largely because of over production there is no future. There is just no market for the product to be sold. I am not an expert on the apple industry and I do not say that that is necessarily the situation in that industry. But I think it is worth the Government and others looking to see whether it may not be a more practical solution in the long term to trim the production to the available market, be it local or overseas. So I say that the Government's proposal is fair and reasonable and that it ought to be supported. 
I turn briefly to some of the arguments which have been put by the shadow Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Gietzelt,  and the following Opposition  speaker, Senator Douglas  McClelland, who both spoke at great length about the problem. I was unable to glean from their remarks any really positive proposals. People in Tasmania are concerned and I share their concern for the people in the industry. I have seen the situation in the canning fruit industry in my area in Victoria close at hand. I am not endeavouring to minimise the grave economic and social problems which are disclosed in the Industries Assistance Commission report. It discloses that the level of income creates grave social and economic problems for the people in this industry. I think it is somewhat novel for the Australian Labor Party Opposition to get up and propose an increase. In its 3 years of government, from 1972 to 1975, it reduced the support to primary industry. As an example one need go no further than the dairying industry in Australia which had been subsidised substantially over many years by the previous Government. We find that in effect Labor removed those subsidies and created a grave problem for that industry. Labor's conduct during those 3 years, of course, was completely inconsistent with price support schemes of any type. 
I turn now to what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said in his opening remarks. I share his concern for a better deal for primary producers. That was his opening gambit. Indeed, we all want a better deal for primary producers. Those of us who sit in this corner of the Senate are gravely concerned for the whole of the primary industries of Australia. But I do not see any future in a suggestion which the honourable senator made about indexing subsidies of this type. That is something like the statement made yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he promised all sorts of things to women in industry. I understand from Press reports that this was done to the embarrassment of his own colleagues. One must always look at the cost to the nation of any support, be it for primary industry, secondary industry or any other industry or section of the community. I think it is fair to say that one of the great mistakes of the former Government was that it proceeded to subsidise various phases of government without counting the cost, until finally we reached the situation where we had grave inflation, gross over spending and a huge deficit. These were the great problems which were faced when we came to government in December 1975. 1 reject out of hand any suggestion that the Government instead of offering $2 should have inbuilt some automatic increase indexation factor to compensate for inflation since last year. Primary producers throughout Australia, whilst they do not enjoy the benefits of wage indexation which are enjoyed by the labour force in the community, do not expect the Government to embark on an irresponsible course which could only bring us to a situation like the one we inherited in December 1 975. 
There may be,  Senator. If  the honourable senator says it is so, I cannot deny it. I am making the point that if we are automatically going to index everything that is subject to government subsidy the economy will not bear the cost. 
Another matter which  Senator Douglas  McClelland touched on was marketing techniques. He said we have to improve marketing techniques. The labour cost factor is of vital importance to primary industry, particularly in labour intensive industries such as the canning fruit and the apple and pear industries. What is happening in some of these industries is that the producer is getting what is left. To take the canning fruit or the apple and pear industries as an example, the fruit is marketed at a price, the middle man is paid and the producer gets what is left. These days in many cases not enough is left to warrant production. During a debate concerning the canning fruit industry in the Senate last year I recall having stated that about 7 cents a can of peaches, which we buy for some 60 cents or 70 cents on the supermarket shelf, finds it way into the pocket of the producer. In the beef industry producers are not getting their fair share of the price. Even though exports of beef have improved, the market to the producer has not improved. This can be traced back to 2 things. I do not want to depart from the theme of the Bills, but when we are looking at one primary industry I think it is important to compare it with another. The situation in the beef industry is that because of the number of strikes in the abattoirs, particularly when stock are at a critical stage of being marketed, and because of the high cost of slaughtering and other intervening costs before a beast is ready to be marketed, the amount left for the producer is much less than perhaps it was some years ago. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland made some reference, when speaking of marketing techniques, to the composition of the Apple and Pear Corporation. I want to say a few words about 2 of the gentlemen on the Corporation. I refer firstly to the  Chairman, Mr Gordon  Leckie, as he is known to me. He has had a very long and distinguished background with the Gas and Fuel Corporation in Victoria, and obviously is a man with considerable experience in marketing. I think the industry was distinctly fortunate to have a man of his calibre accept the office of  Chairman  of the Corporation.  Mr Muir,  the Managing Director of the Ardmona fruit cannery in our area, who also is a member of the Corporation, has been associated with international marketing of fruit for the past 30 years. Whilst the honourable senator made it clear that he was not attacking the reputations of members of the Board, I think that before he comes into the chamber and claims that only one of the members of the Corporation has marketing experience he should do his homework and examine the careers of the other members. They are the only 2 members known to me and I am quite satisfied that they are very well qualified and equipped to serve on the Corporation. I am certain that they will grapple with the problems which confront this industry. I support the Bills. I concede the problems of this industry in Tasmania, but I accept the Government's decision as reasonable and proper in all the circumstances. 
-I present the following pet  ition from 227 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the members of the Senate assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government should totally finance national highways and half the cost of constructing and maintaining all other public roads. 
That since current road funding arrangements have seen a deterioration in road assets, this backlog in construction and maintenance needs to be reduced by the Commonwealth Government undertaking to make a larger financial contribution. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. By way of preface  I  refer to a Press report this morning indicating that  InterScan  now has the backing of the United States and also of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Can the Minister give some indication as to when InterScan will be adopted as a universal technique in aircraft landing systems? Can he give some indication of its earning capacity to the Australian nation? 
I think it is a matter of supreme irony that on the very day on which the extremely capable and efficient Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  gives notice of the introduction of one of the most important Bills on education which will come before the Parliament, designed to set up a tertiary education commission, we should be faced with an urgency motion couched in these terms. If I may borrow the words used by  Senator Mulvihill,  who has just preceded me, I think even  Senator Mulvihill  will agree that this initiative by the Minister shows more realism than rhetoric. I think when we are looking at an urgency motion of this nature- indeed, when we are looking at any urgency motion which criticises the performance of the Government- the primary and natural thing to do is to look at the Government's record. The Minister has in very clear and concise terms set out for the record and for the people of Australia what the Government has done in the education field in the 18 months it has been in office. 
The first thing we ought to talk about is expenditure on education, and the record ought to be set straight. There has been no drop in expenditure on education by this Government since it assumed office. On the contrary, as the Minister stated, there has been an increase. In that connection, we ought to look at the background of the economy of the country when we came into power in December 1975. After 3 years of economic mismanagement there were great difficulties facing the nation, and I want to refer briefly to the savings which the Government effected by its introduction of the contributory Medibank scheme, the health service scheme. As I stated in  Hansard  on 23 September 1976 at page 933, there was an estimated saving of $2,080m. The point I make in citing that figure in this debate is that that saving meant that in areas such as education and social welfare the Government was able to keep up the commitments of the previous Government, and indeed, in some areas- in the area of education- there was increased expenditure. 
We also have to look, when considering this question, at the position and the role and the responsibilities of the States, and this is consistent with out policy of co-operative federalism, which is misunderstood by the Opposition and so often criticised by it. There is a tendency in Australia today to blame the Federal Government for all the ills that confront the nation. In an area such as this, where the States are primarily responsible for the conduct of the education system, it is as well to look at the situation of the States. In this connection, I also want to say something about E-Day. As the Minister has said, the anniversary of E-Day is next week. Along with other senators and members of the other place, I saw a great number of people on E-Day. I think it has been said, and probably rightly, that it was the greatest invasion of a group of lobbyists, if I can use that term without being derogatory in any fashion, in the history of the Parliament. I was pleased to see a number of people on that day and, as a direct result of their visit to Canberra from Victoria, I visited a number of schools in Victoria, in company with members of the House of Representatives where appropriate, and looked at the system. I saw schools in the north of the State, and later in the year, at the invitation of the Victorian Teachers Union, I spent 4 or 5 days in the Gippsland area looking at remote schools and colleges of advanced education, and other institutions across the whole range of the education field. I think it is fair to say that that exercise forced home to me, at all events, the role played by the States in this field. It is not the function of the Commonwealth Government in the area of education to go to a particular State school in any State of the Commonwealth and say in relation to spending money on school improvements: 'We will give you the money directly to do that.' From my personal observations on that tour, the thing struck me most was the need for repairs to school buildings and that sort of thing, which is a problem for the States. 
I emphasise that point because during this debate the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  introduced the letter of 21 February written by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Premiers, and this was also referred to by the Minister. I remind the Senate that we are talking about an allegation that this 
Government has retreated from its responsibilities in education. Nothing could be further from the truth, and we have the authority of the Prime Minister on that. I join issue with  Senator Wriedt  that there is any equivocation in this statement by the Prime Minister. I have a high regard for  Senator Wriedt  's intelligence but he seemed to have some difficulty in understanding the meaning of the words, and I want to repeat them. This is a very practical illustration of the concern of the Government in the area of education and of its desire to co-operate with State governments in that field. I stress this point because I think it is important when considering the question of education. I will not repeat the earlier words of the paragraph, which the Minister has already quoted but the particular sentence to which I wish to draw attention states: 
Neither is there any attempt by the Commonwealth to retreat from its present position in which education is regarded as an area of substantial commitment, nor to reduce its overall financial contribution. 
I do not think there is any doubt about that. The word 'retreat' has been used today in the motion and, perhaps fortuitously, the Prime Minister saw fit to use the same term. I emphasise to the people of Australia the importance of that word. There is no evidence at all of any retreat by this Government from its concern for the responsibilities it has in education, and that is illustrated in the Prime Minister's letter to the Premiers. 
The third matter to which I want to refer briefly relates to triennial funding as opposed to the stop-go policy of the Labor Government. Its 1975 Budget was a disaster for education and I again direct the attention of the Senate and the people of Australia to the figures quoted by the Minister, which are very important in this debate. In 1975 Labor found that it could not keep going on triennial funding and savage cuts of $105m were made across the board in respect of the 4 commissions. The Labor Government then returned to the old system of annual funding. I want to contrast that situation with the present one, which is very vividly illustrated in the statement made by the Minister to the Senate on 4 November 1976, to which the Minister has already referred. To the people of Australia who are listening to this debate I point out that that statement commences at page 1655 of  Hansard  of that date. I do not have time to quote all the passages, but I do wish to refer to 3 points in relation to non-government schools, a matter which was introduced in this debate by  Senator Wriedt  and referred to by  Senator Carrick.  The first passage states: 
The Government has accepted the Schools Commission recommendation that the level of grants for non-government schools be linked automatically in future years to per pupil expenditure levels in government schools. 
That is a significant advance. The Minister has already adverted to it but I wanted to mention it again in passing because it is so important. At page 1659 the Minister stated: 
The Government has decided to introduce a scheme to enable non-government schools to plan and commence capital projects which have been approved for assistance under the Capital Grants Program for 1978 and 1979. This move will contribute significantly to the economic and orderly forward planning of building projects. 
That is the advantage of the triennium system. People in the education field who are involved with schools are able to plan ahead with certainty, knowing that the commitments will be honoured. The third matter which is referred to in this passage is as follows: 
An associated recommendation of the Schools Commission which the Government is adopting is that related to guarantees on loans raised by non-government schools to finance construction of approved building projects. 
That is a significant advance forward which allows the Government, through legislation that will be introduced, to guarantee the loans. Of course, it will allow the schools to proceed with approved building projects where they might not otherwise have been able to do so. I want to spend the few minutes left to me in this debate dealing with some of the arguments put up by  Senator Wriedt.  He devoted a great part of his speech to a litany of Labor achievements. He was living in the past. Indeed, I think it is fair to say that  Senator Mulvihill  also devoted some time in his speech to the achievements of the Labor Government. I think that what the Minister has said in relation to the 1975 Budget is a complete answer to those suggestions. That, of course, is past history. Whatever good the Labor Government did in its first 2 years in office- I concede it took some initiatives which were worth whilewas completely destroyed by the overspending which occurred not only in education but in other fields as well. I do not know which one of the several Treasurers who occupied that important position in the Labor Government had to make the decision- I think it was  Mr Hayden  who presented the Budget in 1975- but there had to be drastic cuts across the board from which stemmed the disabilities that the education system is suffering from at present. 

 Senator Wriedt referred to various letters but I remind honourable senators that the education lobby is very active. We all get letters from all sorts of people. It is healthy that in a democracy this happens. In fact, the large number of letters that come from those involved in the educational field do keep the Government up the mark, if I might put it at way. In the short time that I have been able to devote to this subject, I hope I have stressed that the Government's record is there for all to see. The people of Australia will judge the Government in this field as they will in other fields. It is a proud record- a record of which the Government is proud and a record of which I am proud. The Minister indicated that the Williams Committee of Inquiry- a most important inquiry- has been set up. It has been rightly said that the inquiry will take 2 years. The fact that it will take 2 years was criticised by  Senator Wriedt.  The Committee will look at the whole field of education and it will look too at the goals of education. It is a wide and comprehensive inquiry and I am certain that when its report is presented the Government will act on its findings. I oppose the motion. The Government is happy and proud to stand on its record in this very important field of government endeavour. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister will be aware of the container demarcation dispute on Brisbane wharves between the Transport Workers Union of Australia and the Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia which has held up all movements of containers through Brisbane and is estimated to have cost beef producers at least $500,000 a week since it commenced a month ago. Can the Minister say whether the present provisions of the conciliation and arbitration legislation are adequate to deal with demarcation disputes such as this between unions and, if the legislation is not adequate, are there any amendments which the Government can make to it to provide for the speedy settlement of such disputes when they arise? 
I support the Bill. It breaks new ground and I congratulate the Government on its initiative in bringing in this legislation. There is a need for the legislation and it has been recognised by the Opposition that its introduction is timely although both  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Wheeldon  have expressed some doubts about whether the legislation will do what it is designed to do. The 2 main objectives of the Bill have been stated already but I refer to them very briefly. The first objective is to prohibit persons preparing for or engaging in incursions into foreign countries. The second objective is to prohibit the recruiting in Australia of persons to serve in armed forces in a foreign country. The point has been made already, but I think it is important to note it, that this legislation does not prevent an individual from enlisting outside Australia for overseas military activity in a country of his choice. It has been said that the Bill will not make it unlawful for an Australian citizen to fly to Israel, Rhodesia or wherever he wishes to enlist in military service, although it would make it unlawful for anyone in Australia to recruit a person for that service. That is a short summary of what the legislation is designed to achieve. 
Reference has been made to the Diplock Committee 's comments in that regard and it is interesting to note that the Commonwealth Government in its own examination of the situation came to the conclusion that the activities of individuals which I have just instanced ought to be exempt from the provisions of the legislation. That was a conclusion arrived at quite independently of the findings of the Diplock Committee. The word 'mercenary' has been used often and I would like to refer briefly to a comment in the Diplock report regarding the difficulty of defining the word 'mercenary'. Fortunately this definition has been left out of the legislation. It has been said that there is a differentiation between a soldier of conscience and a professional freelance soldier. The Diplock Committee found it impractical to distinguish between them. I briefly quote 2 passages from the report which deal with this matter. The first passage states: 
The motives which influence a man to enlist in an armed force which is not that of his own country may run through the whole gamut from sheer desire to private gain accompanied by indifference as to the cause which that force is supporting to a conscientious conviction that the merits of that cause are so great as to justify his sacrificing his own life if need be in order to ensure that it will triumph . . . 
We know of instances where people are so dedicated to a cause that they regard it as their duty and in keeping with their conscience to fight for that cause. In a nation such as Australia it is right and proper that we should concede to an individual his fundamental right to do this without legislative restriction. I refer briefly to another passage of the Committee's report. It reads: 
A spirit of adventure, an ex-soldier's difficulty in adjusting to civilian life, unemployment, domestic troubles, ideals, fanaticism, greed, all may play some part in the same individual's motivation. No single one of them may be identifiable to the standard of proof called for in a court  of law  as the effective cause of his becoming a mercenary. 
So one can appreciate the problems in attempting to distinguish between the various types of mercenary. The Bill has been dealt with quite thoroughly by honourable senators who have spoken before me and I do not want to labour the points that have been made by Government senators. However, I briefly want to refer to the definition of 'engaging in a hostile activity' which is referred to in sub-clause (3 ) of clause 6. This clause has its limitations and I think that this is rightly so. It does not deal with the sort of trifling activity which does not cause any inconvenience to anyone but really with a major and violent activity as set out in paragaphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of sub-clause (3). These activities are set out in the paragraphs as follows: 
the overthrow by force or violence of the government of the foreign country; 
causing by force or violence the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury: 
causing the death of, or bodily injury to, a person who- 
is the head of state of the foreign country; or 
holds, or performs any of the duties of, a public office of the foreign country; or 
unlawfully destroying or damaging any real or personal property belonging to the government of the foreign country. 
There are  major  limitations on the operation of the legislation which provide some sort of safeguard. Clause 7 is couched in reasonably wide terms and covers the preparations for incursions into foreign countries for the purpose of engaging in hostile activities. It is simple enough in its terms. Clause 9 has been the subject of some discussion in the debate and it prohibits the recruitment of persons to serve in or with an armed force in a foreign country. Before proceeding to deal with the objections which have been raised to clause 9 by the 2 Opposition senators who have spoken I make a few general observations on the effect of the legislation. As I have stated, the legislation does break new ground but I think it is a matter for regret that there is no reciprocal legislation in force in other countries. Such reciprocal legislation would have prevented some of the tragedies that have occurred in places like Angola and Mozambique. For this legislation to be fully effective we will have to see a great number of other countries adopting similar legislation. 

 Senator Wheeldon made some reference to international terrorism which is, of course, something we all deplore. It certainly is one of the things that is exercising the minds of all of us irrespective of the side of the chamber on which we sit. After all, tragedies such as the events at the Munich Games, which have been referred to, and the regular occurrences of hijacking of aeroplanes by completely irresponsible people illustrate activities which are very difficult to control. International law is notable for the fact that its sanctions are difficult to apply. It is difficult to get nations to agree in a practical sense to measures which would effectively prevent this sort of terrorist activity. The Bill cannot deal with terrorist activity outside Australia so that activities such as the hijacking of aeroplanes which is becoming a feature of modern life are matters for international agreement and not for this Bill. 
One further provision which I will briefly refer to and which has not been adverted to so far in the debate is paragraph (c) of sub-clause (  1  ) of clause  9.  It prohibits publishing advertisements containing any information relating to various matters. The Diplock report went further than that. It proposed a recommendation that:   . . a prohibition upon the publication of information as to how and where to apply for employment as a mercenary should extend not only to advertisements but also to publications of such information as a news item. 
The conclusion arrived at by the Government was that the recommendation, so far as it referred to publication of a news item, represented an infringement of the freedom of the Press and would seem to be an unnecessary precaution. Incidentally, this recommendation was criticised strongly by many United Kingdom newspapers. Perhaps that was an additional reason why it was not adopted by the Government. 
I deal next with the provisions of clause  9 (2)  about which  Senator James  McClelland, as I understood him, had  2  difficulties. I think his first difficulty - 
-He may have. I will deal with the ones raised by the Opposition.  Senator James  McClelland 's first difficulty concerned the necessity for this provision to be in the legislation. He said that there should not be a power vested in the Attorney-General by instrument to declare that it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia to permit recruitment in Australia. In effect, that is what the clause states. 
I had understood the honourable senator to say it because my observation - 
I take the honourable senator's point on board. The observation I was going to make in relation to that is that, before the introduction and passage of this legislation, exactly the same position would apply. 
-I will proceed to the honourable senator's second point which I think - 
Thank you,  Senator Button.  I will take that on board also.  Senator Baume  has already said that he is the only nonlawyer to enter the debate. I do not want to be caught in the crossfire of an argument as to the exact interpretation of the statute. I suppose that this is not the place to argue statutory interpretation in depth. The honourable senator has expressed a view as to the operation of clause  9(2)  which, as I understand it, is that even though the Minister may exercise his power under the sub-clause to permit recruitment in Australia, either generally or in particular circumstances, of persons to serve in or with a specified armed force, or to serve in or with a specified armed force in a particular capacity, sub-clause  ( 1 )  of clause  9  does not apply in those circumstances. The sub-clause then goes on to quote a sub-paragraph of clause  9(1).  What  Senator James  McClelland has said in relation to that is that, notwithstanding that the Minister takes action in that respect, a person who is recruited is still liable to prosecution under clause  6  of the Bill. As the honourable senator says, it is all right for that person to be recruited in Australia but when he enters a foreign country with intent to engage in a hostile activity against the government of that country, he thereby commits an offence - 
I concede that clause 9 is wider in its terms than clause 6 because clause 6 is limited to action against the government of a country. I pause there for a moment to turn to the definition of a government of a foreign country. The definition is worded very widely. It states: 
Foreign country ' means any country outside Australia; 
So perhaps it can be seen by honourable senators that that definition is framed in very wide terms with - 
I agree. I have already said that clause 9 is worded very widely in that clause 6 prohibits activity against the government of a country but clause 9 deals with the armed force of the government of that country or otherwise. I agree that that is what the clause says. I would make 2 points in regard to that provision: Firstly, I suppose it would be extremely unlikely that any Attorney-General would give his  fiat  or blessing or would sign the instrument under clause 9 (2) to the recruitment of forces other than those to serve for a government recognised by Australia. In other words - 
I agree that it empowers him to do this. I do not concede that point entirely. However, I am not quarrelling with the honourable senator's view of the clause at the moment. But I point out that the practical result is that an Attorney-General would be extremely unlikely, irrespective of his political persuasion, to sign an instrument which would have the effect of permitting a government not recognised by Australia to recruit people in Australia.  Senator James  McClelland says that the clause gives him that power. If it does, I say that a responsible Attorney-General would not exercise it. 
We do not have them on this side of the chamber. 
I will continue my remarks. I have made the point which I intended to make. I make this point on the second matter to which I wish to refer: If an Attorney-General is to exercise his power under clause 9 (2)- I am presuming that the proposed amendment to add subclause (4) to clause 9 is carried- this would mean that the instrument ultimately has the force of a regulation. So, there would be power in the Parliament to disallow. Therefore, it would be not just a decision of the government of the day. It would be a decision of the Parliament of the day. This provides an additional safeguard if one were required. 
The final point I make briefly on this matter is in relation to clause 10(3) which states that the consent in writing of the Attorney-General is required for a prosecution. It would really be a Gilbertian situation if an Attorney-General with his left hand - 
-We may have had. As I say, it would be a Gilbertian situation if an Attorney-General with his left hand signed an instrument authorising recruitment and then with his right hand prosecuted an individual who acted under the terms of the instrument. It would be a completely inconsistent and impractical situation. For those reasons, I reject the arguments which have been posed by the Opposition in respect to clause 9 (2). I do not want to preempt the right of the Minister to say this. Possibly he has other comments to make about it. 
All I say finally is that this is new legislation. We are virtually moving into what legislatively are unchartered waters. I think that the Opposition has adopted a reasonable attitude in conceding the merits of the legislation although expressing some reservations it has about how it will operate. I think that time alone will tell how efficacious it will be. I congratulate the Government on its initiative in introducing the legislation. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (3.55)- We have many lawyers in the Senate. Sometimes I get irritated with lawyers in the Senate; sometimes I am grateful for their presence. At the present moment I find myself grateful for lawyers in the Senate because they have raised in my mind a good deal of dubiousness about the actual framework of this Bill. I am anxiously awaiting debate consideration of the Bill in the Committee stage when I will be able to hear from the Minister in charge of the Bill, the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  as we get down to analysing the various clauses. 
I have some problems in my mind with respect to 2 areas. I refer firstly to the area adverted to by  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Wheeldon,  that is, terrorism. I do not see in this Bill provision for effective action to be taken against terrorism. As  Senator Wheeldon  said, no action can be taken against terrorism without an international agreement. 1 do not agree with that in the context of Australia. The Bill provides that the Attorney-General will make a decision one way or another. I refer honourable senators to an attempt at terrorism in Australia where administrative action was taken to export the terrorist without bringing him to trial. Honourable senators will all recollect a creature who came with a Somali passport being discovered in Melbourne about2½ years ago. 
The clause goes on to specify those objectives. What is the Government of a foreign country? In international relationships and within this Parliament we constantly invoke the meaning of the term 'a government of a foreign country '.Is it the Government  de jure  of that country or the Government  de facto  of that country? Unless the Minister gives a further and more rational explanation as to what is meant by the 'overthrow by force or violence of the government of the foreign country', I cannot accept this section of the Bill. 
Other elements in this Bill cause some doubts to arise in my mind. They have been canvassed already. I do not propose to avert to them at present. I conclude with 2 other general matters. How do we deal with wars of national liberation? In the worldwide context it is accepted these days by the communist parties and some fraternal socialist parties of the Communist Government in Russia, and in the so-called democratic countries in Africa, that any declaration that a particular war or activity of violence is  ipso facto  a war of national liberation and it becomes a war  de jure.  It has the support of international lawwhatever 'international law' means- as disclosed by the United Nations. Every time an attempt is made in the United Nations to deal with a situation of this nature, the great body of the United Nations votes against it. So international anarchy exists on a vast scale. 
That brings us back to the question: What is the government of a foreign country? It is all very well for my friend,  Senator Wheeldon,  to hold strong opinions, as he does, about  Mr Smith's  regime in Rhodesia. That is a matter of criticism and something to be abhorred. But when do I hear raised in this Parliament the situation that exists in Zanzibar, where a most violent regime exists, or in Indonesia? 
Like everybody else, I am going to vote for the second reading of this Bill. But I imagine that at the Committee stage there will be some contentious argument amongst honourable senators more versed in the law than I am on the matters that this legislation raises. Unless the Government is impelled to put down gags of one sort or another, probably the best destiny of this Bill would be for a standing committee of the Senate to hash it over. When I sat on the other side of the Senate it was fashionable to send Bills to Senate committees for redrafting and review. That seems to have gone out of fashion recently. However, I shall await with some interest the debate of this Bill at the Committee stage. 
I support these 2 Bills which are being debated cognately and which deal with the very important question of education. In the establishment of the new Tertiary Education Commission the Government is redeeming one of its election promises. This is an important initiative and a great step forward in this very important field which means so much to our nation. Before proceeding I want to deal with a couple of points raised by  Senator Ryan  relating to past expenditure in the area of the present 3 commissions. Before getting on to that matter I think I ought to state the position of the Government which was outlined by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in a speech he made on 4 November 1976 when he dealt with the forward planning of the Government for the following 3 years. At page 1655 of  Hansardhe  is reported as stating: 
The guidelines provided by the Government enabled the commissions to recommend programs for 1977 totalling $ 1,537m, at December 1975 prices- an increase of $47m in real terms over 1976. 
He then went on to look at the next 2 years. I think it is important that we do this because one of the great achievements of this Government has been to restore the situation of triennium funding for education. In some respects, forward planning for 3 years might not be enough when one has to project into the next 5 or 10 years. But education is such an important and vital area that we cannot plan for just one year, as was attempted by the Australian Labor Party in 1975. The Minister went on to state: 
For the second and third years of the triennium, the commissions were asked to proceed with plans based on minimum growth rates of 2 per cent per annum in real terms for universities, colleges of advanced education and schools, and a higher rate of 5 per cent per annum for technical and further education. 

 Senator Ryan has been at some pains to cite figures for 1975 and 1977.I think it is fair to say that in the Senate over recent times we have had a sort of running debate between the Minister and  Senator Wriedt,  who is the Opposition's shadow Minister for Education, over these figures. The situation is almost like the  Blue Hills  serial. There is some hang-up or difference of opinion over the figures for calendar years and financial years. The weakness in relation to the figures given by  Senator Ryan  is that she conveniently left out the year 1976. As I understood her she cited the figures for 1975 and 1977. I noted her figures. I am looking at a statement from the office of the Minister which deals with the 3 years. I think  Senator Baume  may have already included the figures in  Hansard.  If so, I shall not seek to include them again. These figures were given during an urgency debate which took place on the last broadcasting day before the Senate adjourned for the Easter vacation. They were given by the Minister and we have repeated them. He stated that Labor cut the amount available to the 4 commissions by $105m across the board.  (Quorum formed.)  When  Senator Douglas  McClelland interrupted me by calling for a quorum I was mentioning what the Labor Party had done. For the benefit of those who have come into the chamber I mention again that Labor cut the education vote in 1976 for the 4 commissions by $105m. We were not able to remedy the situation in one hit in our Budget. I have already given, from the Minister's figures, the increase for 1977 over 1976. But to put the record straight I point out that in the calendar year 1976 the total expenditure for the Universities Commission was $542m and for 1977 it was $555m. The Commission on Advanced Education in the 1976 calendar year was allocated $385m and for 1977 the amount is $404m. For the Technical and Further Education Commission a total amount of $65m was provided for 1976 and $70m for 1977. I think that sets the record straight as far as the arguments raised by  Senator Ryan  are concerned. 
I return to the Bills. This legislation brings the 3 commissions- the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education and the 
Technical and Further Education Commissionunder one umbrella. This is a very important initiative because, undoubtedly, since the 3 commissions were set up separately there has been a position of competition for funds between them. I think it important that we have an overall supervising commission which will be able to exercise an oversight and control of the activities of the 3 separate areas. I think the choice of the title of Tertiary Education Commission is a very happy one. As the Minister has stated, up until now the minimum entry level has required the completion of a full secondary education course. That has been the norm or standard for entry into a university or college of advanced education. 
Under this Bill the definition of tertiary education is enlarged to encompass the wide range of courses in the technical and further education area. This affords an opportunity for rationalisation in both the funding and the courses in the 3 areas because there has been an interface between the Commission on Advanced Education and the Technical and Further Education Commission. This will enable the relative position of each to be controlled by the one authority. I think it important that the Government has seen fit to do this at the present time because, as  Senator Ryan  has said, there is a growing and increasing awareness of the importance of technical and further education in the Australian commercial fabric. One of the things that has happened as a result of free university education is that a preponderance of students has been seeking university education to the neglect of the technical and further education area. That is reflected in the number of graduates from some faculties in every university who now are finding it difficult to obtain employment in their field whereas in a number of areas in the commercial field companies and people engaged in manufacture, commerce and industry have found it difficult to obtain qualified technical tradesmen. Of course, the Government is fully aware of this situation. Indeed, the increase of 5 per cent in expenditure on technical and further education as against 2 per cent for the other commissions, as I have already indicated when quoting from the Minister's speech in November last, is an indication of the awareness of the Government of the importance of giving some greater funds to the technical and further education area. 
I think we all agree- it would be readily agreed to by the Opposition- that there needs to be a change in emphasis from university education to technical and further education which is the field in which job vacancies are likely to occur. It is important to note that in times of relatively high unemployment, such as we have at the moment throughout the community, there still can be a shortage of tradesmen in certain technical fields. This is the need which the Government 's policy in the apprenticeship area is designed to meet. Admittedly some of these fields belong to the State governments. But it is important- and I will have something more to say about this later on- that in education there be close co-operation between the State and Federal governments. 
It is important also when looking at the general position- and a debate of this kind affords us that opportunity- to consider where we are going in education. We and, I am sure, the people of Australia are aware that the Government has set up the Williams Committee which is conducting a comprehensive inquiry into education generally with particular regard to the goals of education. What is the education system designed to do? What should it be designed to do? Is it doing those things? We have to look at population figures also. We are told by the Commonwealth Statistician that we are approaching an era of zero population growth. This is reflected already by increasing surpluses in certain areas of teaching and perhaps will be reflected in universities in the early 1980s. The setting up by the Government of the Williams Committee to look at the whole question with a view to recommending to the Government some rationalisation in education is opportune. 
I turn now to the structure of the Commission and the councils to be set up under the Bill. There is provision for three or four full-time commissioners plus 29 pan-time commissioners. I think that is how it works out. 
I think I had better look at the Bill so that my statistics will be accurate because  Senator Button  will correct me when he speaks if I am not. The Commission will consist of a  chairman,  a commissioner to be concerned particularly with universities, a commissioner to be concerned particularly with colleges of advanced education, a commissioner to be concerned particularly with technical and further education institutions, plus 5 other commissioners. So, there are 5 part-time commissioners. Each of the councils will have a member who will be one of the full-time members of the Commission. In other words, the commissioner dealing particularly with universities will be the full-time  chairman  of the Universities 
Council. There will be 8 other part-time members of the Council. So there will be 5 part-time members of the Commission and 24 part-time members on the 3 councils, a total of 29 parttime members of the Commission and Council and a chairman and 3 commissions, a total of 4 full-time members of the Commission. 
In the time left to me I wish to say something about colleges of advanced education, particularly in country areas. First of all we should look at Schedule 2 of the Bill which sets out the colleges of advanced education. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the list of colleges of advanced education in Victoria as shown at page 19 of the Bill. 
It is in the Bill.  Senator Cavanagh  can see it there if he wishes. At all events, there are 4 country colleges of advanced education and 19 city colleges in Victoria. I will not detail them because they are in the Bill. In the other States there has been a proliferation of colleges of advanced education. I think it is fair to say that they have proliferated extensively in recent years. There are 1 1 colleges which call themselves regional colleges because they service a large area of a State outside a capital city. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Are you seeking leave? 
I did seek leave. If there is any objection I do not mind. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Leave is granted. 

 The list read as follows- 


<graphic href="072232197704203_45_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072232197704203_45_6.jpg"></graphic>

The 1 1 colleges which call themselves regional colleges are the Capricornia Institute of Advanced Education at Rockhampton and the Toowoomba College of Advanced Education in Queensland; the Northern Rivers College of Advanced Education at Lismore, the Bathurst College of Advanced Education, the Goulburn College of Advanced Education and the Riverina College of Advanced Education at Wagga Wagga in New South Wales; the Gippsland College of Advanced Education at Churchill, the Bendigo College of Advanced Education, the Ballarat College of Advanced Education and the Warrnambool Institute of Advanced Education in Victoria; and the Launceston College of Advanced Education in Tasmania. I draw the attention of the Senate to the peculiar circumstances of these colleges which are outside capital cities. They are well removed from any university or other college of advanced education and have the responsibility of providing a range of tertiary education for the rural region in which they are located. It is important to note that in general the region served by each of these colleges has a population five times that of the city in which the college is located. In other words, in Warrnambool, which has a population of 1 8 000 to 20 000 people, the college serves the much greater population in the whole of western Victoria. 
It is an established fact that the existence of these colleges plays a major role in arresting the population drift to the metropolitan areas and assists decentralisation. These colleges are of vital importance in generating trade and commerce in the city in which they are located and in the rural areas surrounding that city. They have special problems and responsibilities which are not shared by their city counterparts. Each of the regional colleges is alone within its region in the provision of a range of tertiary courses to meet the needs as far as possible of the rural community within which it is located. On the other hand, in the city of Melbourne, for example, there are 3 universities and 1 7 colleges of advanced education which complement each other in various ways and offer a very wide range of choices to prospective students from the metropolitan area. 
In regard to the 8 part-time members of the councils to be set up under the Bill there is no indication as to whether they will be chosen on a 
State basis. I suggest to the Minister for Education that he give earnest consideration to seeing that the country areas where colleges of advanced education are situated receive some representation on the Council so that the problems which I have mentioned which are peculiar to the country colleges can be put before them and recommendations made to the Commission. 
Another matter with which I wish to deal is the question of student accommodation. This important question is causing some problems. Last week I was fortunate enough to look over the Bendigo College of Advanced Education in Victoria. During that inspection some of the matters which I have mentioned were drawn to my attention and I said that I would have a look at the question of accommodation. I have ascertained that in Bendigo 70 per cent of the tertiary students at the College of Advanced Education have to live away from home, at least from Monday to Friday, whereas the vast majority of students attending metropolitan universities and colleges live within daily commuting distances. The problem of the provision of accommodation is self-evident. Up to 80 per cent of the students at the 1 1 regional colleges throughout Australia which I have mentioned live away from home, whereas not more than 20 per cent of students at metropolitan colleges live away from home. 
In setting up colleges of advanced education it is very important for the Government to look at the question of accommodation of students in country areas. In the provincial cities where these colleges are located the provision of accommodation is a limiting factor. Accommodation is not as readily available there as it is in city areas. There are cases on record of students actually having been discouraged from enrolling in regional colleges and going to metropolitan institutions because they cannot find accommodation in the country areas. (  Quorum formed. ) 
I am glad that a few of my Labor opponents have turned up. I am pleased to see  Senator Button,  who will follow me in the debate, return to the chamber. I was dealing with the problem of students in country areas finding accommodation at colleges of advanced education. Let me say in summary that special funding will be needed to cope with this problem. In the case of new colleges of advanced education such as in Bendigo there are a great number of other matters which require capital cost. It is a matter of grave concern that well over 50 per cent of the students who come from outside Bendigo have great difficulty in finding accommodation. 
With the 2 interruptions that have taken place my time has almost expired. In conclusion I want to refer again to the letter which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wrote to the Premiers of the States and which appears at page 646 of  Hansard  of 30 March when it was quoted in full during the urgency debate. I stress the great importance of co-operation by the States with the Federal Government in this area of education and, of course, in other areas. The system of funding and solving the problems in this very important area will not be helped unless there is a spirit of co-operation between the respective States and the Federal Government. The Prime Minister's letter was designed to get the State Ministers together with our own Minister to iron out some of the problems which will arise under this legislation. I commend the legislation to the Senate as an important milestone in the progress of education in Australia. 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister for Education and as Minister representing the Minister for Transport. He is undoubtedly aware of the appalling carnage on Australian roads during the Easter holiday period. There were 75 deaths. Will the Minister, in his capacity as Minister for Education, look at the question of including in school curricula, in co-operation with the States, a compulsory subject dealing with all aspects of road safety, including use and abuse of the motor car, so that by the time a young person reaches the age at which he or she can apply for a licence that person will be conscious of the grave dangers to drivers and passengers occasioned by cars on the highways? Will the Minister refer to the Minister for Transport a suggestion that training centres such as the driver training complex at Shepparton in Victoriawhere children at secondary school level, Victorian departmental drivers, ambulance drivers and others can receive comprehensive training in all aspects of road safety- be set up in various States to further this education program and thus bring some reduction in the road toll? 
-Has the Minister for Science seen a report which has also received some publicity in newspapers relating to a solar scheme for irrigation in the United States of America which is described as the world 's largest solar-powered irrigation system? It includes a 50 horsepower pump capable of delivering up to 37 800 litres a minute. The system can deliver up to 2. 1 million litres of water in  9Vi  hours. Will the Minister arrange for a detailed investigation of the scheme to be made by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to see whether it is suitable for adaption to Australian conditions? 
Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister had brought to his notice a reported statement by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the other place last weekend to the effect that the mantle of  Her  Majesty's Opposition has been shed by the Parliamentary Labor Party and assumed by the trade union movement? Does the Minister agree with this summation of the position, having regard to the prominent part played by  Mr Hawke  in denigrating the Government's proposed voluntary wages-price pause? 
-The Senate has before it today yet another matter of urgency. This seems to be the tactic of the Opposition on days on which the proceedings of" the Senate are broadcast. I do not think a Wednesday goes by without this happening. This motion, like those which have gone before it, seeks to lay at the door of the Government the blame for a situation which, while it is a matter of deep concern to the Government and to everyone in the Senate, has not been contributed to or caused by any initiative or policy of the Government. As I understand the function of urgency motions, they are an opportunity for the Opposition to probe the Government over some shortcoming in policy, perhaps where the Government has over-reacted or under-reacted where the policy of the Government may be proved to be defective. 
Although we have listened to a number of speeches we have heard very little of the solution to the real problems of the industry. Particularly we have heard very little from the Opposition of any solution which the Government can offer to the motor car industry in its present plight. One would have thought that there would be some constructive suggestions from the Opposition in a debate of this kind if it had any initiatives which it could suggest to the Government in the present situation. Of course the present problem of the motor car industry which we are discussing today concerns the suggestion by General MotorsHolden 's Pty Ltd about its employees.  Senator Gietzelt  has reminded us that the matter involves the blue collar employees. I did not understand that that was the situation. I thought it involved the standing down of everyone. But we are told that there is a distinction between the blue collar and white collar workers. This is one of the distinctions which  Senator Gietzelt  never hesitates to make. The employees are to be asked to take a week's holiday. Primarily, that is a matter between the company and its employees. It is a domestic matter and one in which the Government, in my submission, should not intervene.  Senator Gietzelt  was at great pains to indicate his phobia, if I may use that term, of multi-national companies. I refer him to an article in today's  Australian  by Mike Kable. I think the article has already been referred to by the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton.  In that article this passage appears: 
So the frequent union bashing about profitability which has become a traditional national pastime against GM-H, the biggest of the big multi-nationals, is scarcely credible these days. 
The truth is that the company is experiencing a tight situation because of the falling off in demand for its product. It is a private enterprise and it has competitors. They have been named as Chrysler Australia Ltd, Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd, and now the Toyota and Datsun companies. It is a very competitive field and one in which a company has to be on the alert in an economy like we have in Australia with high labour costs. We all know that wages escalated 57 per cent in 1974. That, of course, is one of the great problems of secondary industry in Australia today where there is a high labour content. The problems are accentuated in the motor car industry where there is a high capital content. 
I briefly refer to some remarks made by  Senator James  McClelland. He said that there was a falling off in sales and that the recession would continue to deepen. I remind him that the record shows that sales for December were 63 000 and that that was a record for all time. So what is being exhibited at the moment is a falling off after the record in December. I think the industry recognises that its problems are in the short term, although in the case of GM-H a great number of factors enter into the matter. I think that some of its problems stem from the introduction of the more stringent emission control specifications on 1 July last year when, under the Australian design rule, anti-pollution emission control devices had to be fitted to motor cars. It is fairly common knowledge in the market place that GM-H did not grapple sufficiently with the problem. The result is that in certain circumstances consumers, who in Australia are discerning people, have found that when they put GM-H products alongside Ford and other competitors, the GM-H products fall short. I think this is one of the factors. I am not saying it is the major factor or the sole factor but it is one factor which has not been mentioned in the debate and which may be vital to the problems of GM-H. The motion today, like ancient Gaul is divided into 3 parts. The first part of this matter of urgency states: 
The community's serious concern about General MotorsHolden 's proposal to enforce all employees to take one week's leave. 
We share the concern of the community at the request of GM-H that its employees should take a week's leave. But I suggest that it is hardly the province of the Government to intervene in the situation. I have already stated that we have heard no suggestion from the Opposition as to initiatives the Government might take to correct the position. All this paragraph does is to express the serious concern of the community about the proposals to enforce all employees to take a week's leave. What the Government can or should do about the matter has not been stated by the Opposition. I have already said, and I repeat, that we are all concerned about the proposal but surely it is a matter which in the last analysis must be left to the company and its employees to solve. As I understand the position, the company has made the suggestion to the employees concerned that this is perhaps a better initiative and in the employees' overall interest instead of making selective retrenchments at a time when there is over-production and some stagnation in community demand for a variety of reasons which I have already instanced. 
I think in fairness to the company, and having regard to the more drastic consequences for the employees whose services would be dispensed with under the latter proposal, the first proposal is more desirable and less severe to all concerned. Generally speaking, I think that if the workers were given an opportunity to speak they would take the option of a week's leave instead of the more drastic step of some of their mates and colleagues in the industry suffering retrenchments. The motor car industry, like many other private enterprise industries, is one of keen competition. General Motors-Holden 's forms part of the local market. If the Government were to be persuaded to take some initiative to support that company what would be the position of Chrysler, Ford and the 2 Japanese companies? They would be on the doorstep looking for a similar handout. The truth is that these companies and GM-H had announced some expansion plans which is an indication that the company is in a short-term recession and so is the industry. We have the problem of a small population. Probably we are producing more motor cars in the long term than we should be for our population and market.  Senator Young  has dealt in detail with the position in relation to the decline in the export market. I think that in answer to the first part of the motion we can say that it is hoped that the proposal, if implemented by the company, will allow sales to catch up with production and, certainly, that the problem will be one of short term duration for the reasons I have stated. The second part of the motion reads: 
The company's failure to adequately consult the Australian Government and the trade unions in respect of the above. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
When the sitting of the Senate was suspended, I was dealing with the second paragraph of the urgency motion moved by the Opposition. Before going on with that aspect again, I take up a point which  Senator James  McClelland made and which I omitted to deal with earlier when touching on what he had to say. He mentioned that in the United States of America through an automation process, although he did not use that term, 3 people with sophisticated plant can do a spraying operation which in the Australian industry would involve some hundreds of workers. He said that one of the problems in the industry was the failure of General Motors-Holden 's to update its plant. It is rather novel that a member of the Opposition of  Senator James  McClelland 's standing should advocate a reduction in the work force in the times in which we are now living in Australia. To use an Australian phrase, I wonder how fair dinkum the Opposition is in that regard because it cannot have it both ways. Either we believe in automation and reduction in labour or we do not. As the Opposition has put its policy, I had understood that it was diametrically opposed to automation. At all events no one, least of all the workers who are listening to this broadcast, would want to see automation introduced in the motor car industry. 
The second paragraph of the urgency motion deals with the company's failure to consult adequately.  We  are not here to spend the time of the Senate debating whether GM-H adequately consulted the Australian Government and the trade unions in respect of its proposal. Our Government's policy is to allow the private enterprise sector as far as possible and within proper limits - 
-. . . to exercise its own initiative in decision-making and policy,  Senator Colston,  and it is difficult to see on the face of the present situation what the Government could have suggested had the company had greater consultation with it. We concede that we should have been consulted, as the Prime Minister said in the other place yesterday in reply to a question suggesting that the company should properly have consulted the Government. But the company did not and that is it; and it is no fault of the Government that it was not consulted. 
Opposition speakers have had something to say about consultation with the trade unions. We on this side of the chamber always support initiatives which allow employers and employees to get together and discuss their problems. But we recognise that the final decision so far as the company's financial future is concerned rests with the company because in private enterprise if a company does not make a profit it goes broke. Private enterprise does not have the luxury of government which can run enterprises at a loss for an indefinite period. Companies are concerned to remain viable. In these days of high production costs, particularly in respect of labour, it is the concern of all manufacturers and producers to monitor expenditure and sales to ensure that their operation remains viable. In that context we recognise the desirability of employer companies consulting with trade unions on the various problems which will inevitably arise in the present tight economic situation. It is difficult to see why the Government should be saddled with the sins and shortcomings of this company or of any other company because that company failed to consult with the trade unions in a particular situation. 
In the few moments I have left, I turn to the third paragraph of the urgency motion which refers to: 
The urgent need for the Government to make firm decisions in respect of the industry. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  set out in a statement made some time ago what the Government's longterm proposals for the industry were. What the Minister had to say was this: 
The development of a long term policy for the motor vehicle industry was one of the Government's first tasks on coming into office. 

 Senator Cotton, announced the Government's long term policy on 30 March 1976. The statement continued: 
This followed a comprehensive review of all aspects of motor vehicle policy, including extensive consultations with the industry. 
The objective of our policy is to develop an economic and efficient industry with high Australian content operating under levels of protection which are acceptable to the Australian community. We recognise, however, the conflict between the objective of an economic and efficient industry and that of high Australian content. 
Time does not permit me to proceed further with that statement. All I want to say now is that the Government has answered whatever challenge the Opposition has made in its urgency motion. We deplore the situation where workers must take a week's leave in an industry such as the motor vehicle industry. But it is not the fault of the Government that this situation has arisen. I take it that wise counsel between the employer and the employees will see a solution to what I hope is a short-term problem. 
I present the following petition from 56 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government should totally finance national highways and half the cost of constructing and maintaining all other public roads. 
That since current road funding arrangements have seen a deterioration in road assets, this backlog in construction and maintenance needs to be reduced by the Commonwealth Government undertaking to make a larger financial contribution. 
Petition received and read. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry say whether the reported failure of the Victorian Minister of Agriculture to proceed with legislation necessary to implement that part of the Industries Assistance Commission Crawford report relating to the introduction of a levy on market milk will place the whole scheme in jeopardy? In particular, what effect will it have on the underwriting support by the Federal Government to the dairying industry? 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that a number of busy polling booths in Victoria had no heating on Saturday which, by any standards, was a very cold day in that State? In view of the fact that polling clerks are on duty for some 15 hours or more on polling days, will the Minister take some action before the next Federal election to see that suitable heating is provided in polling booths where none exists at present? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. I refer to the recent statement of the Minister for Construction to the effect that commercial building was enjoying a growing revival, as was housing, with overall housing approvals for 1976 being 20 000 higher than the 117 200 houses authorised in 1 975. The Minister went on to say that the ability of people to buy homes lies in keeping down actual building costs. Can the Minister comment on the effect on the building industry of the reported direct demand on employers by builders labourers for an additional $30 a week, completely outside the indexation guidelines and supported by strike action? 
-The Senate is debating an urgency motion which charges the Government with 'failure to properly reconsider applications for unemployment benefit by school leavers illegally deprived of benefits at the end of the last school year following the High Court decision on the Karen Green case'. In dealing with an urgency motion it is, of course, always worth while to examine its precise terms. Initially, I should like to join issue with the Opposition on its use of the word 'illegally' and the term 'at the end of the last school year'. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  already has pointed out clearly, concisely and ably the fallacy in the use of the word 'illegally' in this motion. That statement in the motion is not true. 
-It is not a matter of who wins the case. I think that what  Senator Grimes  should do-it might pay all of us to do this- is to examine the declarations made by  Mr Justice  Stephen. They are on record. Although we have heard much from the Opposition in recent weeks about this matter, I do not think it yet understands the terms of the judgment of  Mr Justice  Stephen. 
He said that, but he did not say that school leavers were being deprived of benefits illegally. Perhaps I can explain to the Senate what he did say. I am not sure whether the declarations made by  Mr Justice  Stephen are incorporated in  Hansard.  If not, I seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Declare that upon receipt of the plaintiff's claim for unemployment benefits dated the 20th day of December 1976, the Director-General should have considered all the circumstances of the plaintiff's claim, making such investigations as he determined, and in the light thereof, should have decided whether the plaintiff answered the descriptions contained in paragraphs (a) and (b) of s. 107 of the Social Services Act 1 947 and whether she had also satisfied him as to the several matters referred to in paragraph (c) thereof and should by that means have determined whether the plaintiff was qualified to receive an unemployment benefit. 
Declare further that in his consideration of the plaintiff's claim, the Director-General might have regard to the fact that it was made during the period of school holidays and at a time shortly after the plaintiff had left school at the end of the year but should not treat that fact as of itself decisive in determining whether the plaintiff had satisfied him of any one of the several matters referred to in paragraph (c) of s.107. 
The declarations are short and to the point. What the judge decided in this case was simply this: He said that it was not open to the Director-General to give a general direction to his delegates to refuse applications for unemployment benefits on a blanket basis. He said that the Director-General should examine each case in terms of section 107 of the Act. 
-I do not think the Opposition has been saying that, with respect; but let me continue.  Senator Colston  referred to section 107 of the Act and the judge referred to it several times. It sets out the matters on which the Director-General has to be satisfied before he grants unemployment benefits. I propose to devote some of my time in this debate to dealing with the history of this matter, because it traces back to the handouts which were made by the Labor Government and which we had to correct when we came into office. 
-Obviously I have, if I am provoking  Senator Cavanagh  into making inane remarks. I should now like to deal with the words at the end of the school year' which appear in the urgency motion. It could be argued, of course, that the end of the school year is not when the bell rings and school breaks up but at the end of the school vacation. That is a matter of judgment. Perhaps the legislation requires clarification on that point. Before dealing with the judgment in detail, I should like to deal with 2 general arguments in relation to what I understand to be policy matters in considering general eligibility for government benefits. We on this side of the chamber are concerned to see that justice is being done to all applicants for government benefits in terms of the existing legislation. At the same time, the interests of the taxpayers, who in the last resort are called upon to foot the bill for the vast social service expenditure in various areas, have to be taken into account. 
One must always be zealous to ensure that frauds against the revenue do not take place and that people who are not entitled to benefits do not by some device or perhaps some defect in legislation receive benefits. In this situation  Mr Justice  Stephen indicated that there was some difficulty about the word 'unemployed'. I have indicated that there is some difficulty associated with the words 'at the end of the school year'. It may well be that clarifying legislation will be necessary before the next school year. As I said earlier, I want to examine the history of this matter. It is clearly set out in a ministerial statement made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to the Senate on 23 March 1976- a short time after this Government came to office, I point out to  Senator Grimes. 
All right. Well, I am going to quote it back at  Senator Grimes. 
It makes a very good story. It points out the inadequacies of the previous Government in this area. The Minister said: 
Between May 1975 and January 1976 - 
Honourable senators opposite do not like this; some 1 12 000 beneficiaries were selected Tor field officer visits by the Department of Social Security. As a result of these visits 30 per cent of cases were terminated, though there is no suggestion of deception or fraud in every case. 
I will not go on with the rest of the quote. The Minister went on to enlarge. The point I make in this context is that 30 per cent of the 112 000 were illegally receiving taxpayers' money. Surely this is a matter of great concern to all of us. It is certainly a matter of concern to the people who put us into government. While we are in government we will see that money is not wasted. 
The Minister went on to outline the work test. It was from this that the direction of the DirectorGeneral came. Abuses were notorious throughout Australia. Before I came to this place I had personal knowledge of secondary students in the area of Victoria in which I live flocking to the Commonwealth Employment Service on the day school broke up. 
-They all went, and they all got benefits. They applied forthwith and were granted unemployment benefits. This was during the term of the Labor Government. It was a matter of almost public scandal. Some people applying for unemployment benefit had no intention of leaving school permanently. Some who were going on to tertiary education applied for and were granted benefit. It was little wonder that when we came to office we found that 30 per cent of those receiving the benefit were receiving it illegally. Let us look at the position as underlined by the Minister in the statement.  Senator Grimes  need not take my word for it. The position is set out in the statement. The Minister said: 
The situation with regard to school leavers is quite simply that in the past many school leaver claimants have said that they are not going back to school, have been paid unemployment benefit and, for one reason or another, have returned to school. Some, of course, have claimed benefit without any intention of being dishonest, and have later gone back to school. It is apparent, however, that others have merely sought benefit for the holiday period, knowing that they would be returning to their studies. This has meant that they  have received benefits to which they would not otherwise have been entitled. 
The Minister went on to say that school leavers could get a special benefit. The point I make is that the inefficiency of the system as administered by the Labor Government led to the introduction of new guidelines as to the work test and the discretion of the delegates of the Director-General in applying the test to school leavers. Unless it could be demonstrated to me that a system of granting benefits was efficient I would not support it. I am not saying that we oppose the system. I get back to the High Court judgment. It said that the Director-General has to examine each case on its merits. 
-Perhaps he has not done it yet. What I say of the judgment is simply this: The Government issued guidelines, as the Minister stated on 23 March 1976, following a disclosure, almost scandalous, that 30 per cent of people interviewed were abusing the system. This happened during Labor's term of government not only in this area but also in other areas of benefit. It was publicly known that under the National Employment and Training scheme, which allowed for retraining of people who had no skills, people were doing all sorts of courses at the taxpayers' expense. This had to be stopped and it did stop when the Director-General gave an instruction. I repeat that the High Court judgment simply said that the Director-General should not have issued a blanket instruction to his officers, but that each applicant's case should have been examined to see whether he or she fell within the provisions of paragraphs 107 (c) (i) and (iii) of the Act. That was a matter of discretion for the Director-General. The judge was urged with all the eloquence that counsel for the plaintiff could command to substitute his discretion for that of the Director-General. I think the Minister or someone else referred to this. It is worth repeating. The judgment reads: 
For the plaintiff, it was urged that I should form my own conclusions as to the plaintiff's compliance with s. 107, that these should be in the plaintiff's favour, that I should then impute to the Director-General my own state of satisfaction under s. 107 (c) and should accordingly declare the plaintiff to have been qualified to receive an unemployment benefit as from 27 December 1976, being 7 days after her application was rejected on 20 December 1976. Even were I minded to find the necessary facts in her favour, as to which I say nothing, the course suggested is not, I think, one which is open to me. It is to the Director-General or his delegates that the legislation assigns the task of obtaining satisfaction and the Court should not seek to usurp that function. 
That is the clear statement in the judgment as to what section 107 implies. It was demonstrably abused during the 1975 school vacation. We have now had the 1976 vacation. It is a matter for the Government what it does about the 1977 vacation. It may be a question of defining words. There is no substance in the motion. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
-There are two or three matters I wish to raise briefly. The first relates to loans for the encouragement of primary production as referred to in the report of Estimates Committee E at page 3. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the announcement by the Treasurer yesterday relating to the changes in savings bank regulations to enable an additional $500m to be made available for housing in the next financial year. Can the Minister give any indication as to the additional employment opportunities this release of funds will create in the building trade? Would the Minister agree with the statement of the National Executive Director of the housing industry that this will permit an additional 14 000 home loans in 1977-78. 
I wish to raise a matter relating to the Department of the Northern Territory. I refer to page 2 of the report of Estimates Committee E which deals with loan  encouragement to primary producers. The particular matter to which I refer is the critical state of the beef industry in the Northern Territory caused by the depressed state of the market and the termination of the freight subsidy scheme which assisted producers to get their stock to market. This was disclosed in the report. I do not want to take up the time of the Committee of the Whole. The plight of the beef industry in Australia, particularly in the Northern Territory, is generally well known at the moment. That industry is one of the Territory's major industries. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a report on the Northern Territory pastoral industry. This report has been shown to the Minister who is in charge of the Bill and to the Opposition Whip. No objection has been raised. The report sets out in detail the present situation of the beef industry in the Territory. I ask the Minister to give some consideration to the restoration of the freight subsidy scheme as a measure to assist this industry. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister may be aware that Consolidated Meat Holdings Ltd, an important industry in the Albury-Wodonga complex, will close down indefinitely this week because, in the words of  Mr Kevin  Bowtell, the managing director: 'Industrial disruptions had made plant operations uneconomic'. In particular, members of the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union employed by the company are at present on strike for 5 days which, according to  Mr Curran,  the Secretary of the Union, is the first phase of the union campaign of industrial action to force agreement by the employers to a log of claims which contains, amongst other things, a demand for a 9-day fortnight and a $20 a week increase in wages, which would increase wage costs by 30 per cent to the company with the current wage indexation increase - 
My question is to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It relates to the figures for average weekly earnings for the year ended 3 1 March last, which show an increase of 12.1 per cent for that particular year, which outstrips the rise in the consumer price index, excluding hospital and medical services, of 10.2 per cent in the same period. As the majority of the wage indexation judgments during the year in question were for partial indexation only, does the Minister agree that partial wage indexation has been successful to some extent in containing inflation? Does he also agree that when tax indexation comes into operation on 1 July next, the position of wage earners will be further substantially improved in relation to take-home pay? 
I rise again because I bought into this debate and I want to answer  Senator Cavanagh  's further objection. I refer to proposed sub-section (5) which states: 
. unless the organisation establishes that it took all reasonable steps to prevent the participants from engaging in that conduct. 
It is quite obvious that, if the organisation knew nothing of the conduct of two employees engaging in sedition in the plant and causing major damage to it, the organisation could not be prosecuted under that sub-section, because it would have known nothing about it. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware of the efforts by the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staffs Association to ban live telecasts of the England-Australia test cricket matches. A newspaper report states that a request for support from other unions has evidently fallen on deaf ears. Can the Minister say whether any action can be taken to ensure that this ban is not applied so as to deprive Australians of the opportunity of viewing these important sporting events? 
I do not want to delay the Committee for too long, but I want to deal briefly with the objections which  Senator Cavanagh  has to proposed section 45d (5). I refer him to proposed section 45d  (  1 ), which is where the offence is created. One must look at that proposed sub-section in context and read it to the point where it says that a prosecution under that sub-section can not be thought of or initiated in any way unless the conduct is engaged in for the purpose, and would have or be likely to have the effect, of causing substantial loss or damage to the business of the corporation. What has to be proved is that substantial loss or damage has occurred. It does not mean a minor loss. Obviously, for this sort of boycott to be engaged in successfully, substantial interference must take place with the day to day operations of the company. Obviously, it could not be done by one or two people; it would have to be a concerted effort by a number of people. 
The same point applies in relation to proposed section 45d (1 ) (b), which refers to a substantial lessening of competition in any market in which the corporation or a body corporate that is related to the corporation supplies or acquires goods or services. One of those things must be proved before proposed section 45  d  (5) can be invoked. It envisages major disruptive conduct by a number of people to achieve that result. If the result of loss or damage to the business or lessening of competition in a substantial way does not follow, there is no offence under that section. 
-The Senate is debating the Trade Practices Amendment Bill which is a piece of legislation of vast importance to the Australian community as a whole but in particular to those people directly concerned with the areas of trade, commerce and industry. I think it is true to say that apart from the Budget and the legislation which implements it, this area of legislation will have more impact on the daily activities of trade and commerce than any other legislation introduced by the p resent Government during the life of this Parament. One of the basic planks on which the Governmnent was elected was to get the country back on its feet, to restore confidence in the business community and in general promote policies which would generate the investment of risk capital with a consequent increase in gross national product, further employment opportunities and all the other benefits which flow from a buoyant business community. 
Let me say at the outset that I support this legislation, although some concern has been expressed in the commercial world as to whether the present amendments to the Act achieve the policy objectives which I have mentioned. Some restraints on businesses, which the business community thought might be removed, remain in the legislation. I go on now to deal with the points raised by  Senator Button  and  Senator Ryan  in relation to the appointment of a Senate select committee. This legislation has been before the other place since December last year, substantially in its present form. It is true that there has been some amelioration of proposed new section 45D and some of the other sections but basically the legislation has been in its present form. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has taken on board the comments of all sections of the community affected. I do not think any purpose at all would be achieved by referring this legislation to a select committee of the Senate. I think the best way to test this legislation is to put it into operation, try it out and see how it works. I think it is fair to say, however, that the Minister and the Government will be responsive to representations from the business community should it be found after the amendments have been given a fair trial and operation that some further amendments involving removal of the restraints are necessary. 
Legislation of this kind cuts across the day to day negotiations of commercial contracts which, while they were affected to some extent by the pre- 1974 legislation, were further restricted by the 1 974 Act. It is of course necessary in looking at the problems caused by the legislation to balance against them the need to protect the consuming public. Our Government is alert to the rights of the consumer and consumer protection. I think  Senator Messner  illustrated that vividly during his remarks. But against that we must be careful not to place too great a restriction on the day to day operation of business and corporations, large and small, in the commercial field. I think it is a grave difficulty of this sort of legislation to strike a balance. On the one hand we have the consumer rights and on the other hand we have grave unemployment problems which can be solved only by the investment of risk capital, expansion of industry and creation of more employment opportunities. That is the gravest dilemma that any government faces in dealing with legislation of this kind. Naturally of course the far-reaching changes made in the 1974 legislation had a major impact. They had a drastic effect on the free enterprise system. But that is not to say of course that the Government does not recognise that there are legitimate areas where restraint must be imposed. The amendments introduced by this Bill do, to some degree, correct the malfunctions of the legislation in the light of experience since the passing of the 1 974 Act. 
The Swanson Committee was set up to review the Act and to make recommendations as a basis for amendments. The Government has not accepted all the suggestions of the Swanson Committee. It has accepted only some of them. I want to refer particularly to proposed new section 47 and briefly to two major areas of capital endeavour which are still subject to restriction by the amending legislation. I want to make it clear that I support the legislation but I want to alert the Government that in these areas there may be need for a review of the legislation in the light of the experience after the amendment. The first matter to which I wish to refer in that context is the situation of capital intensive industries. They, of course, are large corporations dealing with such matters as the chemical industry, the steel industry and the paper industry. The proposed new section in its present form perhaps discourages industries of this type to enter into long term capital investments as their markets cannot be secured in the long term. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I mentioned that capital intensive industries would have a problem under this legislation. They occupy an important place in the Australian economy. It is probably worth while spending a few moments considering their peculiar position. A capital intensive industry can be defined as one which relative to sales turnover has high capital investment in manufacturing assets and has high capital servicing charges for depreciation, interest, etc., relative to labour costs and has a scale factor which requires it to operate at a level near full capacity if it is to be profitable. 
Capital intensive industries in Australia have much greater problems than do their counterparts in competing countries, such as Japan and the United States of America, which have much bigger populations and therefore greater domestic markets. In the small Australian market the economic size of a manufacturing plant or an increase in capacity of a plant has to be studied in depth because Australia has a much smaller population and domestic market than its competitors. I suppose a typical example, although I would not cite it as being exactly a capital intensive industry, is the motor car industry in Australia today. A great deal of its problems stems from the small size of the Australian market because of our population. If Australia is to compete in the world market and thus maintain its position in the Australian market, Australian manufacturers must install units of plant as large as are feasible in the relatively small Australian market. In most of our capital intensive industries this involves expenditure ranging from $50m to $250m or more. Before companies are prepared to risk capital of that magnitude they want to be certain that their market opportunity is secure and that their business will be viable. A capital intensive industry of this kind should have some security in the home market, which in turn provides the bases on which it can develop its export markets. 
Thus it is reasonable for an Australian manufacturer to make supply arrangements with large customers which will give them some assurance of having a continuing base load demand. Where a customer commits himself to buy a substantial proportion of his requirements from the manufacturer or to buy only Australian made goods, the manufacturer should be permitted to reward the customer with some form of price discount and to enter into a long term commercial agreement with that customer to ensure continuity of supply. The customer would then be assured of a sustained and reliable source of supply at more stable prices. Furthermore, the danger of damage to the manufacturer caused by spasmodic imports, including dumping, which is common in capital intensive industries, will be reduced. 
Under the existing Act, and in the amendment, the manufacturer and customer in the context I have mentioned are prevented from effectively making long term or continuing agreements freely negotiated between the parties which in the first place will permit the manufacturer to reward a customer who commits himself to buy from the manufacturer a substantial proportion or quantity of his total requirements and/or who commits himself to buying Australian made goods and which, in the second place, will assure for himself a sustained and reliable source of supply at reasonable prices. There are a number of situations in the Australian economy today where a manufacturer and a customer are ready, willing and able to enter freely into an agreement which will create employment opportunities, attract risk capital, increase production and will go a long way towards solving our problems. These industries find themselves still in a situation of stultification because of the provisions of this legislation. I make that point because I think it is important to future employment and the future development of the nation. I trust that if the experience of the legislation shows that the facts I have put before the Senate warrant some re-examination of the legislation this will be done. 
I want to refer very briefly to the position of commercial leases of the kind which oil companies and other manufacturers have had with retailers over the years. Following the High Court decision in the Quadramain case, the parties to these leases now find themselves confronted by proposed new sub-sections (9), ( 10) of section 47 of the Act, which prohibit the sort of leasing arrangement which has been commercial practice for some years. The leasing arrangement which is freely entered into enables a lessee to obtain a prime commercial site at far less than a reasonable rental. The site might be worth $250,000. A reasonable rental would be 10 per cent or $25,000. Yet an oil company may allow an operator to lease it for $5,000. Under a condition of the lease the operator agrees to take the whole of his supplies from the oil company for a number of years. That sort of arrangement is no longer possible under the legislation. 
I do not think they have. At all events, the operator is perfectly happy. He can sell tyres. He can run his service station. He can sell his product, which the company has the right to supply. The companies now face a situation where it will be virtually impossible to renew leases on existing terms and conditions. 
The only alternative course they have open to them is to operate the sites with company employed personnel, which really is not in the best interests of the company or the lessee. The operation of this amendment in the long term will add to the price of motor spirit to the consumer without promoting competition, and in practice it will lead to a greater degree of vertical integration by the oil companies. If the legislation means that the service stations created by the companies and leased to independent operators may be used for the sale of competitors' motor spirit certainly there will be a number of further consequences. As has already been said by the Opposition, one of the prime purposes of this legislation is to provide consumer protection. If the effect of legislation is an increased cost to the consumer for a commodity like petrol, we all ought to be concerned about it. 
One aspect which comes to mind is that disruptions could be caused to delivery patterns. Very significant savings have been achieved by introducing in recent years sophisticated and large scale delivery arrangements known as the big drop' technique. Quite obviously, if in future one service station distributed several different brands of motor spirit the 'big drop' technique could be employed no longer. Probably additional capital expenditure would be incurred also in providing more underground tanks to permit isolation of brands. Invariably such associated costs are passed on to the consumer. 
Under the legislation it is possible to get an authorisation but this means further delays and uncertainty. Of course no one can proceed with certainty until the authorisation is obtained. I simply draw attention to the 2 matters I have mentioned as an indication of the dramatic effect of the legislation on the sorts of commercial agreements that have been accepted in the Australian business community for so many years. I mention them at this stage because there are areas where the amendments are not consistent with the Government's policies of increased production, less interference from the Government with legitimate business operations and generally encouraging initiative and endeavour. I feel certain that the Government will be prepared to look at the legislation in the light of experience, as I have said already. 
Before I conclude I want to say a few words on proposed section 45D, which refers to secondary boycotts. I think there is a great deal of misconception about the purpose and object of that proposed section. That provision has a great deal to do with the situation out in the marketplace. It is idle for Opposition senators to say that secondary boycotts do not have any effect; for example, that the air traffic controllers strike did not have any drastic effect, which is what  Senator Ryan  was trying to say. The indirect effects of strikes of that nature are very far-reaching, and no one can assess those effects accurately. 
When objecting to the provisions of proposed section  45D (5),  Senator Ryan  said that it was dangerous to unions. The whole point of the legislation is that a union will have to face any prosecution which is initiated, but under this provision a fair number of things have to happen before a prosecution will be initiated. The provision protects the individual. If a union organises a secondary boycott, the legislation provides for the union to be prosecuted rather than an individual. It cannot be said that the legislation destroys the rights of the individual, because it protects them. 
Proposed section  4SD  has to be looked at in the context of even-handedness between the employer and the employee in what is, after all, a commercial situation. As I say, it is a situation dealing with trade and commerce. Basically, what happens in the case of a secondary boycott is that people on the staff of, say, John Fairfax and Sons Ltd- people belonging to the Printing and Kindred Industries Union- go on strike and then the transport workers who deliver goods to the premises of John Fairfax and Sons Ltd from some other company refuse to deliver those goods. The worker driving the transport vehicle is not on strike; he is engaging in the sort of activity that this legislation seeks to cover. The legislation does not attempt in any shape or form to deal directly with a strike situation, and that is made very clear. 

 Senator Ryan found some difficulty in relation to sub-section (3) of proposed section  45D.  It refers to a person- I think that is fair enoughengaging in conduct that hinders or prevents the supply of goods or services by a third person to a corporation. The term 'corporation' is used because of the constitutional limitations of the legislation. That is a great defect of this legislation, which I will mention now in case I do not have time to deal with it later. Without complementary State legislation to cover the whole field, this legislation cannot be fully effective, because the Commonwealth's powers extend only to corporations. So the legislation has to deal with a situation of a corporation being involved in receiving goods or services. In addition, that action has to cause one thing or the other. The relevant part of the proposed section reads: 
substantial loss or damage to the business of the corporation or of a body corporate that is related to the corporation; or 
a substantial lessening of competition in any market in which the corporation or a body corporate that is related to the corporation supplies or acquires goods or services. 
Yes, that is quite right. I think I mentioned them as alternatives. The point raised by  Senator Cavanagh  is quite correct. It is apparent from an examination of subsection (3) that the Minister has been at great pains to exempt what we might call a legitimate strike situation from the operations of this legislation. 
I do not quite agree with  Senator Wright's  interpretation of the language. Let me deal for the moment with the situation of a person- any person- in the terms of subsection (3). It states that a person shall not be taken to contravene the Act where: 
The dominant purpose for which the conduct is engaged in is substantially related to- 
the remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work or working conditions of that person or of another person employed by an employer of that person; or 
an employer of that person having terminated, or taken action to terminate, the employment of that person or of another person employed by that employer . . . 
So, what we have come to know in Australian jargon as a legitimate strike situation is fully protected; it is not affected by this legislation. I think it is important that the people of Australia realise that. We are not attempting to bash the unions, or to do anything like that, by means of this legislation. We are simply prohibiting secondary boycotts because they have such a damaging effect on the economy of the nation. We are seeking power to deal with them under this Act. It is quite clear that the legislation does not strike at the legitimate right to strike over those issues that are mentioned in sub-section (3). 
That may be. I do not quite share  Senator Wright's  view. The position of unions is even stronger, if  Senator Wright's  interpretation is correct. I do not think I can deal with that aspect in any greater detail, except to say that proposed section  4SD  deals equally with employer and employee. I want to mention very briefly a couple of other points. One feature of the legislation which I think is reasonable is that it applies to the Commonwealth in its commercial operations. I wish to say a few words also about the merger situation. Under the amending legislation, mergers which place corporations in a position to control or dominate a market for goods or services, or acquisitions made by corporations which are already in a position to control or dominate a market, are prohibited. The phrase 'control or dominate' is new to this legislation. That phrase may need some more precise definition in order to avoid the uncertainty which has been expressed by those people who are affected by the merger provisions of this measure. 
As I have said, the legislation is limited in its operations by the corporations power. The Swanson Committee recommended that the Commonwealth should initiate consultations with State governments in order to achieve universal application. As the Minister has said in his second reading speech, the Government has decided to seek consultation with the State governments to that end. I have highlighted some of the problems which I believe remain unsolved by the legislation, but I readily concede that the Minister has presented a reasonable Bill which does remove some of the anomalies that became apparent under the existing legislation. As I said earlier, I think the Minister and the Government will be responsive to representations made by the commercial and business people who feel that they are still disadvantaged by the amending legislation. I support the Bill as being a first step along the road towards reform in an area of legislation which is very difficult and complex. 
-I rise at this late hour briefly to support these Bills and to deal with the points which  Senator Walsh  has made.  Senator Walsh  quite often in debates on primary industry Bills in this chamber-he did it again tonight- exhibits his abysmal ignorance of primary industry. I want particularly to deal with 2 points he made. He said that this legislation perpetuated unnecessarily high milk prices. It shows that he is completely out of step with the producer section in the whole Australian industry when he says that because no producer of milk is receiving a high price for his product. The problems of the industry stem from the fact that not enough is paid for the product. The second thing he said on which I wish to join issue is that this legislation will perpetuate the existence of first and second class dairy farmers. Nothing could be further from the truth. One of the great problems of this industry is the relatively high price which is received for whole milk by people who enjoy the supply rights to the milk markets of the capital cities in comparison with what is received by the manufacturing side of the industry.  Senator Walsh  is some years behind the times because there is a rationalisation process going on at State level, and this Federal scheme would not be possible if that rationalisation process was not taking place. 
These 5 dairy Bills are of great importance to the industry, and I congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  for the great deal of time and effort which he and the officers of his Department have put into the discussions at the Australian Agricultural Council which have given to the legislation. The Australian Agricultural Council is a meeting of all State Ministers for Agriculture with the Federal Minister, at which the problems of the industry are thrashed out. As a result of those discussions these Bills have come forward. The first 3 Bills deal with the introduction of Stage 1 of the Industries Assistance Commission dairying plan, which has become known throughout the industry as the Crawford report. Stage 1 which is embodied in this legislation seeks legislative approval of the old voluntary equalisation scheme. 
The other 2 Bills anticipate the imposition of a levy in the event that there are major disruptions to the market by any particular State or States. It should be realised that these Bills do not of themselves impose a levy on the domestic milk section. They give the Agricultural Council the right to intervene and make recommendations to the Minister for Primary Industry both as to the date to be prescribed for each type of fresh milk product and the operative rate of levy for each product. This, of course, will be done by majority decision of the Agricultural Council. The legislation represents a step forward in a comprehensive marketing scheme for the whole of the products of the dairy industry throughout Australia. 
When our Government came to office the industry was in a parlous state, with export manufacturing in a state of chaos because of the collapse of the international skim milk powder market, the heavy subsidy of the European Economic Community to the British market and the failure of the Labor Government to initiate a support scheme for the industry by underwriting a minimised equal price. The Senate is aware of the initiatives undertaken by the Minister for Primary Industry and our Government in providing underwriting at a rate of approximately 50c per lb on butterfat which was subsequently increased to 60c. The Minister has already announced a continuation of a level of underwriting at 60c to 65c per lb for the 1977-78 season. The total cost to the Government of this initiative to date is $10m. Of course there will be considerable additional expenditure because of the underwriting for the forthcoming year. This allows both the farming and the manufacturing sides of the industry to plan for the future with some certainty. As I have said, the legislation really implements stage 1 of the 3 stages set out in the Crawford report. All it does is give statutory recognition to and make compulsory the present voluntary equalisation arrangements for manufactured dairy products. 
No one likes levies for primary industry or any other industry but it is important to realise that any market stabilisation scheme introduced by the Federal Government must have some machinery which will enable the scheme to be a disciplined one and thus an effective one for the whole industry. This legislation is the first step designed to make it a compulsory marketing scheme for the whole of Australia. Stage 1, of course, is of great assistance to the southern export States of Victoria and Tasmania because of the concentration of manufactured milk products in those 2 States, particularly Victoria, and the imposition of the market milk levy is necessary to achieve orderly marketing stability. The levy will apply only if the market milk sector is threatened by imminent breakdown. 
It is interesting to look at the figures of percentage production for each State for market milk. It varies considerably from State to State. The figures are available in the Industries Assistance Commission's report for 1973-74. The report shows figures of 56 per cent in New South Wales, 12 per cent in Victoria, 40 per cent in Queensland, 35 per cent in South Australia, 48 per cent in Western Australia and 20 per cent in Tasmania. These figures indicate the major variation in each State between market milk and manufactured products. The great problem of the industry is to integrate the market milk with the manufactured products on a Commonwealth basis. This is difficult when such a wide variation exists between the 2 sections from State to State. The legislation is a step on the way. It is the first step, and other steps will follow. 
The States are in the course of rationalising market milk against manufactured milk. This is a slow and involved process but it is at least under way and hopefully will be completed before any legislation is introduced to implement stage 2. Stage 2 of the Crawford report deals with marketing entitlements of total Australian production. These marketing entitlements for the whole of Australia will be tailored to meet the market. There is so much of a domestic and an export market for whole milk and other products so it is to that level that production will be tailored. Every farmer will have an entitlement. As  Senator Archer  said, there will be considerable discussion, debate and difference of opinion among the States before Stage 2 can be implemented. It will have to be implemented by Federal legislation. 
At the annual conference of the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria recently, certain decisions were made in relation to the market share entitlement, which, as I have already said, is the basis for stage 2 of the scheme. To save some time of the Senate, I have shown the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  a Press report on the decisions arrived at by the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria at their annual conference. It is an article in the  Shepparton News  of 3 1 May. The conference asked that the scheme include 6 different points: I seek leave to have that article incorporated in  Ilansard. 
The Minister for Social Security will be aware of the termination of the employment of 355 employees of Consolidated Meat Holdings Ltd at Albury-Wodonga due to the fact that industrial disruption had made operations uneconomic. This meant that the plant had to be closed down. The closing down was announced while a strike was in operation and details of the situation leading up to the strike were given by me in a question asked of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on Monday, I think, of this week. Can the Minister clarify the position of these striking employees in relation to unemployment benefits? 
-The Senate is debating a Bill to establish a Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission. This legislation is the first step towards putting legal aid on a sound and broad permanent base, embracing all the States, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. I should like brieflybecause of the time factor- to dismiss at once the amendment moved by  Senator Button  because the worst thing it would do would be to postpone this desirable reform to establish legal aid on a comprehensive basis throughout the whole of the Commonwealth. It is an indication of the concern of the Government that legal aid should be adequate and available to the under-privileged people in the community and that it should be an efficient and comprehensive scheme. There will, of course, be a need for the close co-operation and active interest of the States. Legislation will have to be passed by each State Parliament to make the scheme fully effective. The States claim, not without some justification, that if we are to have an integrated scheme, a State legal aid commission set up by State legislation should control the day to day running of the system in each State. This Government, for its part, recognises this fact, which is consistent with its federalism policy. Of course, the Commonwealth has a limited field of operation, being restricted to legal aid in the Federal area. There is a firm commitment by the Commonwealth to provide funds for the provision of a State-type legal aid commission in the Federal area. 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is to be congratulated on his initiative in submitting this Bill. It is an indication of the Government's commitment both financially and in the area in which Federal legal aid is already provided through the Australian Legal Aid Office. It is estimated that the expenditure on legal aid services this financial year, excluding Aboriginal legal aid, which we all know is dealt with separately, will amount to $ 17.95m. As the Attorney-General pointed out in his second reading speech in the House of Representatives, that represents an increase of 43 per cent over and above the amount expended in the previous year. I think that the expenditure increase not only shows the concern of this Government in this area but also is a complete answer to those critics of the Government who are suggesting that in some way legal aid is to be terminated or disbanded by this Government. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
I turn now briefly to consider the scheme of the legislation and what it is designed to do. It is intended that each State commission will take over the existing legal aid offices and any State or law society scheme in that State. In my own State of Victoria the Law Institute of Victoria and the Bar Council have been active in supporting the Legal Aid Committee, which is a lawyers' scheme in that State. The legislation provides for the Commonwealth and each State to enter into a formal agreement under the terms of which the Commonwealth will provide funds for the provision of aid in the Federal area by the State legal aid commissions. The Attorney-General set out the complete framework of the Act in his second reading speech. I shall not do that again. He also stated that 2 States- Western Australia and South Australia- have already passed legislation in regard to this matter. 
Some concern has been expressed by the Australian Government Lawyers Association as to the future of its members following the passage of this Bill. Basically, the legislation preserves the right of the present employees of the Australian Legal Aid Office to salary, leave and superannuation entitlements. In general, the arrangements for their transfer to State and Territorial commissions will be on the basis of terms and conditions of service no less favourable than those that they presently enjoy. Indeed, I think it is true to say that this Bill goes as far as it can. There will be a legal agreement between the Commonwealth and each State which will set out the terms and conditions and will deal with the rights of the officers. The Commonwealth's financial commitment will not be forthcoming under the agreement if the position of the officers is not preserved. 
The Attorney-General is seeking to have included in the State legislation provisions which will allow the legal aid commissions to make suitable reciprocal arrangements with each other for the transfer of staff. Similar provisions will be included in the ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. So as far as possible the promotion and career rights of the officers will be preserved. In the meantime, pending the adoption of legislation in each State and the provision of ordinances in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, there will be no change in the status or conditions of employment of the officers presently employed in the ALAO system. The Government is concerned to ensure that the rights of the officers are fully safeguarded. If the scheme is to operate with complete efficiency and to give services to the underprivileged of Australia, integration of the system with an overall supervisory Commonwealth commission and commissions set up under legislation in each State and the Territories is a vital necessity. As a practising lawyer for the last 30 years, I welcome the initiative of the Commonwealth Government in submitting this legislation to the Parliament and I commend the legislation to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
In relation to the proposed purchase by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission of the property known as ' Baroona ' near the City of Echuca: 
1 ) Was an independent valuation obtained by the Commission before purchase. If so, was such valuation based on the sub-divisional potential of the property, or on its current usage as a beef-producing property. 
Were alternative properties inspected with a view to purchase. If so, what was the area and what were the prices, and other relevant details in respect of such properties and the reasons why the Commission preferred to purchase  Baroona ' rather than other properties. 
Did the Commission make any investigation into the suitability of the property known as 'Rice's. If so, what was the Commission 's opinion. 
What activities other than farming are to be carried on at'Baroona'. 
Does the manager who is to reside on the property already occupy a house owned by the Commission in the City of Echuca. If so what is to happen to the property in Echuca at present occupied by him. 
What number of staff are proposed to be employed at  Baroona ' and in what capacity. 
-My question arises out of the question asked earlier today by  Senator Jessop.  Will the Minister for Education ensure that the inquiry into AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd will be broad enough to allow investigation of all financial activities- travel, commercial and otherwise- of the Australian Union of Students so that audited financial statements may be available to members of the student body generally so they will be aware of how their contributions to AUS are spent? 
Is the Minister for Education aware that a series of rolling strikes being conducted by the Victorian Secondary Teachers Association is causing serious disruption and inconvenience in a number of Victorian high schools? According to a letter by the DirectorGeneral of Education in Victoria which appeared in last Saturday's  Age,  the issue is: Who should run the schools?'. The DirectorGeneral went on to say that this issue is of vital interest to all people in the community who are concerned with the preservation of our democratic procedures. Whilst I appreciate that the matter primarily is one for the Victorian Government, can the Minister comment on the position on an Australia-wide basis, particularly, of course, where there are similar problems in the Territories which are directly under his jurisdiction? 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether his attention has been drawn to a statement appearing in the newsletter of yesterday of the Master Builders Federation of Australia in the following terms: 
The Government's policies over the last 21 months have led to a significant stabilisation in cost pressures in the industry. In the 12 months to July 1977 the cost of materials used on house building rose by 9.8 per cent and on building other than house building, by 9. 1 per cent. This contrasts with rates of increase of over 20 per cent per annum in 1 974-73. 
Will the Minister comment on the statement, '-' particularly in relation to future activity and prospects in the building industry? 
I support the Bill. It is important legislation which I suggest we should look at in a cool, calm and objective manner, free from prejudice and emotion. Firstly, I deal briefly with a couple of statements made by the Opposition spokesman,  Senator Button,  in reply to an interjection by me. As the Senate knows, he and I share a common affinity as lawyers. This is not the first time that disparaging remarks have been made in the Senate about my being an up country solicitor. That is a tag which I wear quite easily because occasionally the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  is given the same tag. I am quite happy to rest on the clear, legal exposition of this legislation given by my illustrious colleague, also a legal man,  Senator Wright.  We gave a clear, concise and direct explanation of the meaning of the words and of their effect in the current Australian scene.  Senator Button  said that no employee can be dismissed by an employer. I interjected and said that he had made an overstatement. I was kind in my interjection. I am a practising lawyer. I think he still practices. There is nothing at this moment to stop me from sacking an employee of mine. No industrial law in Australia can prevent that happening. That is the situation in small business in many areas in Australia, outside the Public Service, outside statutory corporations and outside the Conciliation and Arbitration Act.  His  statement simply was not true. 
This legislation deals with public servants, the Public Service and. statutory corporations set up under Commonwealth legislation. When we are looking at this legislation it is important to remember that we are dealing with 20 per cent of the work force. It is an accepted fact- it has been quoted many times in the Senate since I have been a member- that 80 per cent of the people employed in Australia today are employed by private enterprise. So this Bill is dealing with 20 per cent of the work force. There is a necessity, because of industrial anarchy in certain sections of statutory corporations and government instrumentalities, to introduce legislation to deal with that 20 per cent. 
Might I say in defence of public servants that I was once a public servant. I spent the first 12 years of my working life as a Victorian public servant. Therefore, I know something about how public services work. I want to pay tribute to all public servants of Australia today because my experience in that area taught me that they are a loyal, dedicated and hard-working band of people. But in any other section of the communitywhether they be British migrants or whoever they are- there is always a small percentage, 5 per cent or less, who cause trouble. Employees of the Australian Postal Commission today are no exception. 
The Bill we are discussing is not confrontation legislation. The Government is dealing with a situation that is not new. It existed in the days of the Labor Government, and I shall deal later with  Senator Bishop  who is a former PostmasterGeneral. This matter ought to be above party politics because whether there were postal strikes in  Senator Bishop's  day or whether there are postal strikes now in the day of Eric Robinson, such strikes cause great disruption to all the citizens of this community. Surely the best example of irresponsible industrial action that can cause disruption is the present dispute concerning the Postal Commission- Australia Post- because every citizen of Australia and every household of Australia is affected by this organisation. 
I shall come to its record later, particularly its record in respect of the Redfern Mail Exchange. I have already paid a tribute to public servants. I want to repeat my tribute because a number of public servants are a little upset about this legislation. When I referred to the remarks made by  Senator Button  I forgot to mention something that has already been raised ably by my colleague  Senator Wright,  namely section 66 of the Public Service Act.  Senator Wright  quoted this section. Under this section there is complete power to dismiss any public servant. This power has been in the Act for many years although I have not been able to ascertain for how long. Yet honourable senators opposite have come here today and said what a terrible thing the legislation we are now debating is for the Public Service. It will be a terrible thing perhaps for the 5 per cent of irresponsible people in Australia who do not want to see this nation get back to a prosperous situation and who are intent on disrupting the community. The other 95 per cent of the people, be they in public or private enterprise, are quite happy to be law abiding and hard-working citizens. That is the nub of the matter. 
I now come to the question of industrial anarchy. Figures have been quoted to show that there is not a lot of industrial strife in Australia today. But statistics can be likened to a bikiniwhat they conceal is more important than what they reveal. I suggest that it is a complete fallacy, when looking at the effect of strikes on the economy and the community, to take into account only the number of man hours lost. As was pointed out by  Senator Wright,  these figures do not include the effect of new industrial action such as go-slows and work bans. Employees providing mail pick-up services in Victoria went out for 24 hours. Industrial action of this kind has caused so much complete disruption to everyone in the community that the people of Australia want to see it taken in hand. 
They want to see an updating of the tools of trade and the machinery which the Government can employ to rectify this situation. That is what this legislation is all about. But when we are talking about postal strikes, we must remember that they affect everyone across the board. Probably the best example we can take is their effect on the humble pensioner. There are thousands of them throughout Australia. The pension cheque arrives regularly except when there is a mail strike. In some respects, the situation regarding the public servants, if I can use that term compendiously for the 20 per cent of people employed outside private enterprise, is quite different from the situation regarding employees in private enterprise. Public servants are running services which concern the whole country. 
I have already dealt with the Postal Commission and I turn now to transport strikes. I refer to the recent regular transport strikes in Melbourne where the people who were disadvantaged there were people who did not have motor cars. People who had made appointments a fortnight earlier to visit the outpatients sections at public hospitals on a Friday found that the trams and trains were not running because of the strike. It is quite wrong to say, as Bob Hawke says, that only so many man hours have been lost. What the people of Australia are concerned about is getting on with the job and having essential services running so that they will be there when the public wants to utilise them. 
Yes. I want to say something now about the Redfern Mail Exchange. I am sure that  Senator Bishop,  who has already made three speeches of a second reading nature on this Bill, will pardon me if I refer back to a statement of July 1974 by  Mr A.  F. Spratt, managing director of the Australian Postal Commission. The statement is headed 'Strike/3 '. I am not sure what significance the document has but it reads: 
Twelve thousand six hundred and forty mail bags (involving about 5 million letters) made up and ready for despatch to the suburbs and some country areas lay idle in mail exchanges throughout Australia this morning as 1,200 members of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union went on a 24-hour stoppage. 
Two country post offices in Victoria- Ballarat and Clunes -were closed altogether but most post offices are providing full counter services. 
The Postmaster-General,  Senator Reg  Bishop, will be meeting union representatives in Canberra today to discuss the dispute which some unionists say may lead to further work bans and disruptions. 
Now the point I make to the Senate and to the people of Australia who are listening to this debate is that strikes were going on under the previous Labor Government. There was disruption to the community. 
Never mind about whether there was less disruption. I will argue that with you,  Senator but  let me refer to the figures without interrupting my train of thought too much. 
I said 'train'. These are the figures: Since 1972 there have been 24 separate stoppages involving over 156 000 man hours. I have already dealt with the man hours involved. I do not think that  Senator Bishop  appreciated the point I made about the disruption to the community. That is the point about this sort of action. I say to  Senator Bishop  that it happened in his day as Postmaster-General and it is still happening. We should be above party politics, pass this legislation and allow it to deal with that very small minority, that less than 5 per cent, whether they be employees of the Postal Commission, whether they be air traffic controllers or whoever they are, who are causing disruption to the essential services of this nation. Since 1972, both before the establishment of the Postal Commission in 1975 and since, it has been par for the course that we have these stoppages in the mail exchanges and particularly the Redfern Mail Exchange which is at the centre of them. 
Before I take a closer look at what has been happening at the Redfern Mail Exchange and dealing with the up-to-date situation there I want to deal with the situation in my own State of Victoria, which is something to which I have made brief reference. In doing so I refer to a statement on 9 August 1977 by the Chief General Secretary of Australia Post,  Mr David  McQuatty. Before I quote from that statement I remind the honourable senators opposite who have been spouting today about arbitration that the union in Victoria would not go to arbitration. Listen to this statement!  Mr McQuatty  said: 
The credibility of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union has proved to be highly suspect if its General Secretary,  Mr G.  Slater, has been correctly reported as saying that the issue should be settled around the conference table. The APTU has in fact walked away from the conference table on the question of shorter working hours and appears intent on pursuing industrial blackmail. 
It has not yet responded to three alternatives suggested by  Deputy President  Isaac of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 1 August 1977 nor has it informed  Dr Isaac  of its intended course of action as requested by the  Deputy President  on 4 August 1977. 
That is a clear statement. I am not intending here to disparage  Mr Slater  of the union. I appreciate his position. I appreciate that the present position is that five States have lifted the ban but New South Wales will not. The union has nowhere to go. We do not mind unions having nowhere to go but with this legislation we are going to give the Government of Australia somewhere to go in the running of the country. We have a situation where the national body cannot control its members. We have industrial anarchy. Bob Hawke has become involved in this sort of situation in the trade union movement. He has told  Senator Button  on occasions and has said quite openly: 'I cannot settle this so and so strike. They will not be reasonable '. All we are saying in this respect is that where a government instrumentality is involved- be it in the transport area, the Postal Commission area or the Telecommunications Commission area- we are going to run the country. That is what this legislation is about. 
I conclude by saying, as I said in my opening remarks, that this legislation should be looked at in a cool, calm and dispassionate manner. The people of Australia are interested in seeing the country run without industrial dislocation caused by less than 5 per cent of the work force, irrespective of whether those people are in public or private employment. The Government is providing this machinery to enable it to do so. It will be available to an alternative government. I have already shown that the situation is one that is above party pOlitiCS. The same situation has arisen irrespective of whether there has been a Labor Postmaster-General or a PostmasterGeneral from this side of politics. One might get a temporary solution, but disruptions have still occurred. This legislation is being passed to cover that situation. No public servant will be disadvantaged. As I have said, I rest on  Senator Wright's  explanation on that. The situation in the private sector is that an employer himself makes the stand down decision.  Senator Button  correctly stated the position. There is then a right in the employee under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to appeal against the stand down. 
We have to remember the steps which must be taken. There has to be an engagement of industrial action within the meaning of clause 4 of the Bill. Industrial action is denned fairly clearly and concisely. Honourable senators opposite know what it means. The communist unions of Australia have been saying for years: 'We will have a rolling strike. We won't go right out. We will just disrupt the show and pull people out at short notice.' In all the government instrumentalities of this country we have seen history repeating itself. Both under Labor and under ourselves and in recent times the industrial scene has been continually strewn with disruption by a small, well-organised, irresponsible and disgruntled section of the community. I hope that the people who are listening to this debate will appreciate the importance of the legislation. A fundamental principle is involved- whether the Parliament and the Government of the day are to be supreme or whether the trade unions, led by Bob Hawke, will now take over the running of the country. I commend the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education in his capacity as Minister for Education and in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has he seen a report in today's Press from the Australian Children's Television Action Committee recommending that advertising be removed from children's viewing times on television? The Minister may be aware that the average child who left school in 1975 spent 15,210 hours in a class room as against 17,520 hours in front of a television set. Can the Minister say whether either his Department or the Australian Broadcasting Commission is conducting any research into the effect of television generally and television advertising in particular on the minds and outlook of school children? 
My question is directed to the Acting Attorney-General. Has the Minister seen a Press statement this morning regarding the first interim report to the New South Wales Parliament yesterday by the four special inspectors appointed by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission to investigate the collapse of Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd? The inspectors' report severely criticises both the directors and auditors of the company and makes serious allegations as to irregular conduct on the part of the managing director of the company. Can the Minister say whether the present provisions of the uniform Companies Act are adequate to police the conduct of directors in this sort of situation, particularly where, as in this case, the crash has involved the general public in the loss of $78m? If the present provisions are inadequate, are there any on-going discussions with State Attorneys-General with a view to introducing uniform legislation to afford greater protection to the investing public? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. The Minister may be aware that a delay of several months is occurring between the date of approval of a war service home loan and the availability of loan funds to the applicant. Will the Minister indicate whether any action can be taken to streamline the procedures so that the loan moneys will be available to the applicants more expeditiously? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 23 August 1977: 
Has he seen a report in today's Press from the Australian Children "s Television Action Committee recommending that advertising be removed from children's viewing times on television? The Minister may be aware that the average child who left school in 1 975 spent 1 5.2 10 hours in a class room as against 1 7,520 hours in front ol'a television set. Can the Minister say whether either his Department or the Australian Broadcasting Commission is conducting any research into the effect of television generally and television advertising in particular on the minds and outlook of school children? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will have seen the report of the speech of  Mr Bob  Hawke on Monday last, when he opened the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress, in which he referred to the reduction in man hours lost because of strikes. Does the Minister agree that the loss of man hours is only one of several factors to be taken into account in assessing disruption to industry and commerce and to the community generally because of strikes and other industrial action? Can he say whether any statistics are available on the economic loss caused to the nation by guerrilla tactics, particularly in the building trade, and the economic consequences to the community generally of strikes in the transport and power industries which are occurring with increasing frequency in Victoria? If continuing statistics are not kept, will he ascertain whether some action can be taken to record these figures so that a complete picture of disruption and inconvenience to the nation caused by strikes and unauthorised stoppages will be available? 

 -Mr Deputy President- (  Quorum formed).  Mr Deputy President,  I suppose that I ought to thank  Senator Georges,  who drew your attention to the state of the House, for resurrecting an audience to listen to what I have to say. It is always a pleasure to follow  Senator Walsh  in a debate in the chamber on a Bill such as this which is obviously Government policy. It is a Bill that should not take a great deal of time, but  Senator Walsh  has the delightful habit of drawing red herrings across the trail and accusing the Government of all sorts of things that are simply not true. I would like to draw attention to  Senator Walsh's  opening remarks that the new federalism policy of our Government and its workings were on a par with the failure of our Government to reduce and control inflation. I would have thought that no one in Australia today would dispute the proposition that one thing our Government has done since coming to office has been to reduce the rate of inflation, which was running at about 17 per cent, to a figure of the order of 10 percent. 
This is an important piece of legislation. It serves to highlight the difference between the philosophies of the Government and the Opposition in relation to the place of the States and local government in the structure of the Australian nation. We of course recognise the three tier or three sphere form of government- the complementary rights of Federal, State and local government. In contradistinction to that, our friends on the other side of the chamber stand for a centralist form of government. I suppose one of the best illustrations that come to mind in this regard is the difference in approach to the very important question of the Federal funding of local government. It is perhaps opportune today to look at the question after we have had a whole year's experience of the operation of this policy, which was regarded in local government circles throughout Australia with some sense of alarm, or fear, or trepidation because the Government was departing from the philosophy and ideas of the previous Government under which public servants in Canberra, to a certain extent, determined how a few dollars were to be spent in remote Australian municipalities, to note that our policy gives to the municipalities autonomy in spending the moneys we make available. I think that is a very important aspect of Australian democracy because, after all, local government or the third tier of government, is at the grass roots level of the people. 
I have a tremendous admiration for those Australians who serve on shire, town and municipal councils throughout Australia. They receive no payment, no remuneration or reward, but they spend long hours in the interests of their local community. Surely if anyone knows how the money ought to be spent within the confines of the municipality, it is those good men and true who are elected by the ratepayers of the municipality to serve their interests and to decide how the money will be spent. 

 - Senator Georges, your Government told the municipalities how to spend their money. 
It did that through the authorities. You know that as well as I do. Local government had very little say in the spending of the Federal grants that were made available. Now they have complete say. 
At the first Premiers conference this year all State Premiers agreed to the distribution between the States as recommended by the Grants Commission. This Bill enables those payments to be made. Of course a proper inquiry will be undertaken by the Grants Commission before any change is made. I remind  Senator Georges  and his colleagues who were interjecting that as recently as last week various announcements were made. I, and I am certain other senators on this side of the chamber, have had tremendously favourable comments from the municipalities regarding the actions of the Government last year. This is particularly so in relation to my own State of Victoria which this year will receive $6.7m more than it received last year- an increase of almost 1 9 per cent- because of the generosity of the Government in making additional funds available. 
-I know you do not like it,  Senator, but  these are the facts. These funds are available. The municipalities themselves are very happy with the Government's action in this regard. It is true that, like most people who are lobbying for government money, local government authorities put a case that the allocation be increased by up to 2 per cent That may happen in the years ahead. But it is very true to say that the reaction of municipalities from my own State has been most favourable, not only in relation to the grants of the previous year, but also in respect of those which were announced by the Government last week. As I say, a sum of $42. 1 m has been made available in Federal funds to Victoria from the total allocation of $ 165.3m made available by the Commonwealth Government to local government throughout Australia this year. There is an old saying that the proof of the pudding is in the eating. I remind honourable senators opposite that the reaction of local government is probably the best test that can be applied in relation to government policy in this regard. The thing they are delighted about is their autonomy in spending. They are also delighted about the increased allocation of almost 1 9 per cent. 
The only other thing I want to say in supporting the Bill is that it is another initiative of our federalism policy. As I say, it has been well accepted by the municipalities and by the States. I remind the Senate that all State Premiers agreed to the recommendation of the Grants Commission. The Ministers who made the announcements emphasised that the grants would be completely untied- free of any strings whatsoeverand that the way in which grants were to be utilised would be a matter for each municipality to determine. This approach is in line with the policy of this Government to upgrade the status and autonomy of local government. I completely support that principle. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I rise to support the Non-government Schools (Loans Guarantee) Bill 1977. Opposition senators who have spoken in the debate so far-  Senator Button  and  Senator Ryan-  have turned it into a debate on the Schools Commission report which was brought down in the Senate last week and in respect of which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  made his statement. I think that he was followed on that occasion by  Senator Wriedt,  the Opposition spokesman on education matters, who also had something to say about it. It is well at this stage if we get back to the subject of the debate. I will deal briefly with that and then, of course, I will be quite happy to join issue with the two speakers I nave mentioned in discussing the Schools Commission's report and the matters which they have raised in relation to it. 
This Bill arises out of a recommendation of the Schools Commission that a system of loan guarantees should be established. The purpose of the Bill is to implement the scheme which will enable the Government to act as guarantor for loans raised by non-government schools in the States to finance wholly or partially the construction of approved priority school facilities. The Bill was foreshadowed by the Minister in a statement he made in the Senate on 4 November last year. I think it is worth repeating two important things that the Minister said on that occasion. He said: 
The Government has decided to introduce a scheme to enable non-government schools to plan and commence capital projects which have been approved for assistance under the Capital Grants Program in 1 978 and 1 979. 
So much for  Senator Ryan's  comment that we have abandoned triennium planning. The Minister went on to say: 
This move will contribute significantly to the economic and orderly forward planning of building projects. 
It ill-behoves  Senator Ryan  to talk about abandoning triennium planning because it was the 
Labor Government that did this when it cut the total education vote by $105m in the 1975 Budget. This Government- I congratulate the Minister for Education on this move- has reintroduced triennium funding and planning. It is not true to say that there has been any retraction or abandonment by this Government of that attitude. The second thing the Minister said in his statement in November of last year was this: 
An associated recommendation of the Schools Commission which the Government is adopting is that related to guarantees of loans raised by non-government schools to finance construction of approved building projects. lt is expected that the Government will introduce legislation into the Parliament in the Autumn Session of 1977 to give effect to the decision. 
In the result, legislation has been introduced this session. I want to say a few words on the importance of this initiative to the non-government sector. Irrespective of which party has been in power, the non-government sector has been disadvantaged. This legislation is an important initiative which will enable forward planning and buildings to commence which otherwise could not have commenced, supported as they will be by the government guarantee. It is a worthwhile Bill, and of course it is supported by the Opposition. 
Let me say something about the Schools Commission report. As the Minister said in his statement last week, guidelines are not new. The Whitlam Government first issued them in 1975, not only for the Schools Commission but for all the education commissions, when it set aside the reports of the four commissions for the 1976-78 triennium, suspended the triennial principle and directed the commissions to present recommendations for 1976 within stipulated financial limits. That is a plain statement of fact of what the Whitlam Government did. It is worth looking at what the present Government did for the 1 977 program year. Against a background of applying appreciable restraint to Commonwealth Goverment expenditure, the Government found it necessary to provide guidelines with financial limits and priority areas to the Schools Commission. However, the Government gave a two per cent real growth in funds for schools over the 1976 levels and in doing so provided for a real increase in expenditure for both government and non-government schools. 
Let us look at the Government's guidelines to the Schools Commission for the 1978 program year. Within the non-growth situation for direct grants for schools, the Government proposed that approximately $4m of the amount of about $14m needed to meet the specifications in respect of non-government schools should be found by reductions in the programs for services and development and for special projects, which apply to both government and non-government schools. We must look at the role of the Schools Commission in this context. Its essential role and responsibility, first of all, is to operate as an advisory body to the Government to assist it with measures of financial assistance for the benefit of schools and school systems in both the States and the Territories. Its obligation- it carries it out- to report on the needs of schools and of priorities within those needs cannot be discharged in isolation from the issue of financial resources likely to be available to the Commonwealth and to the States and the non-government school authorities. 
Let us turn to the position of the States. A great number of things have been said about the very minimal reduction in the guidelines on grants for schools being a horrific situation or, to borrow  Senator Ryan's  phrase, a destructive policy. Of the total funds which States spend on education, 85 per cent comes from the State governments themselves and only 15 per cent comes from the Commonwealth. When people are shouting calamity', I remind the Senate that since the Budget was delivered, in my experience, there has not been much protest at ail against what was said in the Budget about education. 
-Like the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  I do not always read the newspapers. As the Minister said in his statement, the Commission has ignored the very real capacity the States have to continue to maintain the level of resources in their own schools. They obtain funds for their schools from their own revenues and from general purpose grants from the Commonwealth, as well as from the specific purpose grants under the Schools Commission program. 
A significant factor in the increased efforts the States have made in respect of their own schools in recent years has been the increasing general financial assistance grants from the Commonwealth. In this regard it is worth noting that since coming to office the Government, in pursuance of its federalism policy, has responded to the demands of the States by giving them increased resources and therefore a greater capacity to exercise their own discretion and determination of priorities under the revised income tax sharing arrangements. In the current financial year the Commonwealth will be making available to the 
States $4,336m under the tax sharing arrangements. That is an increase of more than $600m over 1976-77 and, as the Minister pointed out, it is at least $l00m more than their estimated entitlement under the former uniform tax formula. It represents an increase of almost 17 per cent over the last financial year. Of course it is much larger than the expected rate of inflation. 
Surely the figures I have given indicate a definite capacity on the part of the States to increase further their spending on schools if they so wish. A further $600m will be made available this financial year. If the $14m needed for nongovernment schools is divided among the six States, probably a figure of less than $6m will be applicable to New South Wales, the largest State. The Schools Commission report recognises some of these facts. Paragraph 3.15 on page 1 1 of the report states: 
Now that resources in most government school systems are about to reach or have already reached the improvement targets set, a review of the adequacy of existing resources levels will need to be made. 
It is simply not true that the guidelines set by the Government for the Schools Commission are unreasonable or that they will not be met by the States. I do not know whether  Senator Button,  my colleague from Victoria who led for the Opposition in the debate, has studied the Victorian State Budget which was delivered, I think, last week. I do not have the detailed figures before me, but I have been made aware of the figures. I am assured that the State Government in its education vote- I am speaking of Victoria only, because it is the only budget on which I have been given information- has more than picked up this tab which is such a worry to the Opposition. 
-They came from the flow-on from the income tax sharing arrangements. As I have said, an amount of $600 m is involved. Victoria received a very generous proportion of that. The Minister for Education may have the precise figure before him. If he has it, he may give it to us when he replies to the debate. 
Yes. As we know, the extra $600m that I have been speaking about in this debate would have been divided amongst the States. So, taking my State of Victoria as an example, we find that the 85 per cent funding of schools which is dealt with by the Schools Commission, has more than covered this short-fall, if I can call it that, which has come about as a result of the guidelines of the Government to the Schools Commission. I think that effectively answers the arguments which have been posed by the Opposition in relation to the Schools Commission's report. I hope to have something more to say about that report at a later stage when it is debated more fully. I was concerned tonight firstly with dealing with the Bill. I have commended the Bill to the Senate and to the people of Australia as an initiative that will assist the non-government schools, which certainly deserve assistance. There is no one in Australia who would be prepared to say that the primary and secondary sectors of the non-government schools do not need assistance. They are worthy of assistance. I then took issue with the Opposition on the Schools Commission's report. I commend the Bill to the Senate as an excellent initiative by the Government in the education field. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. The Minister will be aware of a statement by  Mr Bob  Hawke at the conclusion of the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress last week which included, among other matters, a threat to block exports under existing uranium contracts if the Government refuses the request of the ACTU for a referendum on the issue of the mining and export of uranium. The Minister will be aware also that there are inconsistencies between the policies of the ACTU, as announced by  Mr Hawke,  and the policies of the Australian Labor Party, also announced by  Mr Hawke,  following the Australian Labor Party Conference in Perth earlier this year. Can the Minister say what effect the blocking of exports under existing contracts would have on Australia's credibility as a trading nation and on her capacity to honour commitments under existing commercial contracts? 
-I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Jaycees support the principle of passport style photographs and blood groupings to be included on driving licences. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will consider and support this proposal. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Minister representing the Minister for National Resources will be aware of the drastic consequences which the new fuel excise and crude oil prices will have for country business people and farmers. In view of the depressed state of primary industry, can the Minister say whether within the new pricing arrangements there will be scope for Government consideration of a fuel equalisation scheme, particularly having regard to the fact that the previous price equalisation scheme, which guaranteed no greater price for people in remote areas than 3.3c a gallon above what was paid in city areas, was abolished by the Whitlam Administration because it was considered unnecessary? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that builders labourers working on Melbourne's $5 5m State Bank building project, and who have been on strike since 5 July, on Monday last voted by 44 votes to 16 to return to work? The vote was the result of a secret ballot ordered by  Mr Justice  Alley on 8 September. Following on the result of the ballot, the secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation,  Mr Norm  Gallagher, said that a union organiser would be on the site from 7.30 a.m. on Tuesday to ensure that no work was done. In fact an organiser, a  Mr Mick  Lewis- I hope he is not a relative of  Senator Lewis-  attended the site yesterday morning, and as a result the builders labourers who turned up for work went home without commencing work. Can the Minister say whether there is any procedure under the industrial legislation to enforce the decision to return to work, duly arrived at by secret ballot? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I refer to the tragic losses suffered by Mildura district fruitgrowers in Tuesday's tornado. Can the Minister say whether the Bureau of Meteorology has facilities to forecast tornados? If not, are any studies being made towards advancing forecasting technology so that localised warnings of destructive storms can be given? 
I rise to support the Budget. Whilst the Budget debate in this place, in common with the first reading of a money Bill, allows for a wide ranging discussion of a variety of subjects, I propose to confine most of what I have to say to the Budget. I think perhaps it is timely that I do so not only because the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  claims that the Government seeks to make regressive changes in the tax system but also because  Senator Sibraa,  who has just resumed his seat, made the same mistake. I thought it would be clear to anyone who examined the Budget Papers that this Budget introduces the greatest tax reforms since Federation. It is timely for us to examine those reforms. In the course of my remarks I hope to reiterate some of the things that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said so that the Australian public will be under no illusion about the great value of these reforms. We have heard from a number of Opposition speakers in the debate. Whilst they have been critical of the Government and some of the intiatives in the Budget, they have failed to suggest any strategy which would be available as an alternative to the matters which they have criticised. 
Of course, the people of Australia still remember the alarming escalation of wages and prices during the three years of the Labor Government which climaxed in an inflation rate of some 1 7 per cent per annum. Our Government has made it quite clear since coming to office in 1 975 that its overall strategy and number one priority is to reduce this rate of inflation. Indications are that inflation is now running at slightly under 10 per cent per annum, so it can be claimed fairly by our Government that despite the great problems caused by inflation which confronted it at the time of its election in December 1975, substantial progress has been made in reducing the rate of inflation to a more realistic level. The way is now open to economic recovery with greater incentive for entrepreneurs to risk capital, thus expanding the economy and creating more employment opportunities. 
I suggest that the Government is to be congratulated on the reduction of its deficit. I propose to deal with three reductions in the early part of this speech- the reduction in inflation, the reduction of the deficit and the reduction in taxation. They are three of the great achievements of this Government. As I say, the Government is to be congratulated on the reduction of the deficit. This will enable a consolidation of the economy and it will also enable us to build upon the foundations which were so successfully laid in last year's Budget. The Treasurer and the Government are to be congratulated also on the accuracy of the forecasting of the deficit, both in respect to revenue and expenditure. Both revenue and expenditure were very much in line with the original estimate. The Budget is designed to further reduce the deficit to $2,2 17m, a reduction of $523m on the figure for last year. After allowing for overseas transactions, the domestic deficit is estimated at $ 1,347m in 1977-78. That is almost $650m less than the figure for the previous year. It is worthy of note that the Government hopes to finance this deficit solely from loans raised within Australia without creating additional paper money in contradistinction to the wildcat finance schemes and borrowings witnessed during the term of the previous Government. 
I turn now to consider the specific initiatives introduced in the Budget. The first of these, as I have already outlined, is taxation reform. The Treasurer rightly declared in his Budget Speech that the new tax arrangements were the most revolutionary changes yet made to Australia's system of income tax. Despite the assertions of Opposition supporters, every taxpayer in Australia will benefit to some degree from these reforms. I repeat that every taxpayer in Australia who earned during this financial year the same amount as he earned last financial year will pay less tax. I defy members of the Opposition to dispute that proposition. I now deal with the taxation rates as they have been announced by the Treasurer. The first thing to note is that the rates are greatly simplified. There are now, in effect, four sections. The taxpayer earning up to $3,750 a year pays no tax. This is important to bear in mind when looking at the taxation rates beyond that amount. As my colleague.  Senator Messner,  pointed out in his speech last night this effectively reduces the taxation rate up to $16,000 a year which is set at 32c in the dollar when we allow for the fact that the first $3,750 of income is not subject to tax. Of course, overall an income up to $ 16,000 is taxed at a lower effective rate than the 32c in the dollar. 
The second taxation scale is applied to incomes between $3,750 a year and $16,000 a year. Taxation is payable at a standard rate of 32c in the dollar. That applies to all incomes over $3,750 a year. This, of course, is the only taxation which is payable on incomes up to $16,000 a year. Over and above that amount, and up to an income of $32,000 a year, the taxpayer will pay additional tax of 1 4c in the dollar for that pan of the income between $16,000 and $32,000. Incomes above $32,000 a year will attract a further tax of 28c in the dollar above the 32c tax base. So on that portion of income over $32,000, these taxpayers will pay taxation at the rate of 60c in the dollar. One of the great problems with the previous scale of taxation or structure of the taxation system was that people at all tax levels lacked incentive. They lacked the incentive to work harder because of the vicious incidence of the taxation scale on the extra income earned. The grab of the taxman took from extra income and destroyed the incentive to earn or produce more. This is a matter which has worried the Government. It is vital in order to get the economy moving again that people must have the incentive to work. People were refusing to work overtime because it was just not worth it. It was costing them too much in tax. 
In the last Budget the Government introduced tax indexation. That was a very significant reform which did something to cushion the effect of the problem I have been discussing. It meant that where a taxpayer received a rise in salary, that rise was indexed to the tax rate of the salary that he was getting immediately before the rise. But the reduced taxes introduced by this Budget give a very substantial relief to taxpayers across the whole range of incomes. Just as the family allowances introduced by the Budget last year were designed to assist people on low incomes, so in this Budget, by reason of the taxation exemption to $3,750 a year for a single taxpayer or in the case of a taxpayer with a dependent spouse, a taxation exemption to $5,480, some 225,000 Australians now paying tax, many of them being pensioners and young people, under our scheme will pay no tax at all. Yet we have Opposition senators coming into the Senate chamber and having the hide to suggest that this Budget will make regressive changes in the tax system. Surely those 225,000 taxpayers who are no longer paying tax will not agree with that proposition. 
To further illustrate the point, if it needs further illustration, a taxpayer now earning, say, between $8,000 a year and $12,000 a year, which is a range fairly common today, can work overtime without becoming involved in paying a higher rate of tax. This is because there is a substantial margin for overtime payments, having regard to the fact that the taxation rate does not increase beyond 32c in the dollar until a ceiling of $16,000 is reached. Then, of course, the additional tax payable applies only to income above that figure. The effect of these substantial cuts in income tax will certainly give a substantial fillip to the economy. We find that the record of 
Labor in government, as I have already indicated, was one of massive Budget deficits with an unprecedented 89 per cent increase in personal income tax revenue during its first two years of office. The Labor Government failed to acknowledge the need for tax reform by refusing to introduce tax indexation, even though it was recommended by the Matthews committee which was set up by the Labor Prime Minister. The tax reduction, of course, restores to the individual incentive for initiative and enterprise. 
Before concluding my remarks about the taxation scene, I refer briefly to the position in relation to the averaging of income for primary producers. The reforms of the Hayden Budget attacked averaging by imposing an extra tax of $50m on farmers. In other words, the farmers who were subject to the averaging system lost taxation concessions of $50m. Our Government has taken steps not only to restore the pre- Hayden position but also to give substantial further assistance to farmers by abolishing the $16,000 ceiling and introducing a provision to enable farmers on falling incomes to pay tax at the lower rate of income, be it income applicable for the income earned that year or the income averaged over a five-year period. So, all primary producers now benefit from averaging and pay tax on actual income or average income earned over five years, whichever happens to be the lesser. The primary producers now have the best of two worlds. 
I should like to make a few comments now about education. The Budget provides for Commonwealth expenditure of $2,371m on education for 1977-78. This is $21 lm or 10 per cent more than last year. Some criticism has been levelled at the Government because of its guidelines to the Schools Commission. It must be remembered that government schools in the States are funded in the ratio of 85 per cent by the States and only 15 per cent by the Commonwealth. It must be remembered also that funds for education flow to the States in a two-fold stream. The first is specific purpose grants under the Budget and the second is financial assistance grants under the tax sharing arrangements. In this context, I point out that this year under the tax sharing arrangements the States will receive $4,336m. That is an increase of more than $600m over 1976-77 and at least $100m more than the estimated entitlement to the States under the uniform taxation formula. The States at last are realising what a great boon the federalism policy of this Government is and how much it means to them in additional revenue. The allocation this year represents an increase of nearly 17 per cent over the last financial year. Relating it back to the context of education, to which I am addressing myself, it gives the States further capacity to increase their spending on schools if they so desire. Indeed one might comment that the situation of the States in balancing budgets and using available Commonwealth funds under the Commonwealth tax sharing arrangements is, I think, proof of the efficacy of the Government's policy in this regard. 
While commenting on the Government's federalism policy, I might also mention the position in relation to personal income tax sharing in the case of local government. Here again, there has been a substantial increase in funds provided. In my own State of Victoria there will be an increase of $6.7m over and above the amount received last year. This is an increase of almost 19 per cent. Victoria will receive a total sum of $42.3m from the total allocation of $ 165.3m made available by the Commonwealth Government to local government throughout Australia this year. The favourable reaction of municipalities throughout my State, following the recent announcement of the amounts payable to each municipality under this legislation, is a clear indication that this aspect of the Government's federalism policy is giving eminent satisfaction to the local government recipients of the revenue. 
I note, with some regret, that there is no provision in the Budget relating to the alteration in the rates of Federal estate duty, nor has any further step been taken to abolish it altogether. The Victorian Government announced in its recent budget that probate duty in Victoria will be abolished from 1 January next in the case of estates passing to children. In its budget last year the Victorian Government effected a reform which meant that probate duty would not be paid on an estate passing between spouses. Because the amount of State probate duty paid is a deduction from the final balance before Federal duty is calculated, the benefits given by State governments such as Queensland and Victoriaprobate duty has already been completely abolished in Queensland and substantial total exemptions have been granted in Victoriadisadvantage the estates of people who were domiciled in those States. The estates of persons who were domiciled in those two States are disadvantaged so far as Federal estate duty is concerned when compared with the estate of a person who was domiciled in a State where exemptions do not exist. In other words, more Federal estate duty is paid on Queensland and Victorian estates. This is an anomaly that could and should be rectified. Furthermore, as has been pointed out on a number of occasions, the proportion of total Federal revenue derived from Federal estate duty has been declining. In the years 1974-75 and 1975-76 it was below 0.50 per cent and the estimate for the year 1976-77 is, I am informed, 0.33 per cent. The cost, of course, of collecting this tax is significantly higher than that of collecting income tax and other Federal revenues. A strong case can be made to abolish estate duty and, even pending abolition, I think a case can be made for the Government to set up a special committee to ensure that where an exemption from a tax or duty is given by a State legislature the person receiving the benefit is entitled to receive it in full, without being penalised by paying extra revenue in the Federal sphere. There are several other anomalies in this regard in relation to exemptions from payroll tax in State areas where, by reason of an exemption from payroll tax, the taxpayer pays more income tax so that the benefit given by the State is not fully effective. 
Another area about which I wish to make some comments is the new arrangement announced in the Budget Speech for the pricing and taxation of crude oil produced from presently known Australian fields. The price in Australia is less than half the price in countries like Japan, France and Italy. Further, our Government has faced the realities of the situation caused by the quadrupling of international oil prices in 1973-74 which forced home to the world the key role which oil plays in transport and as an energy source. Because it is inevitable that demand will overtake supply in the foreseeable future- it is worth noting that  President  Carter's forecast is somewhere in the mid 1980s- it is essential that government approaches the problem realistically so that steps can be taken to mitigate the effects of dearer oil. Oil supplies 45 per cent of the world's energy needs and 47 per cent of Australia's energy needs. It will remain, for some time, the most important energy source in Australia. Our central energy policy objectives are threefold: Firstly, we must encourage oil exploration and development; secondly, we must encourage greater economies of energy use and encourage people to use other fuels in preference to oil; and, thirdly, we must foster a more intensive search for alternatives to oil. Each of these objectives requires the price to be increased. 
The previous Government announced- we have maintained it- a policy of applying import parity prices to oil discovered after 14 September 1975. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  dealt with the position in detail in his Budget Speech. I propose to confine what I have to say to the problems which the announced policies will mean for people living outside the great capital cities of Australia. Undoubtedly, the new fuel excise and crude oil prices will create great hardship for country business people and primary producers throughout Australia. It will have a cumulative effect because apart from the direct cost to an individual for his fuel, travel, tractor work and other essential services on a farm property, there will be the indirect costs which higher transport charges will have on the whole range of essential goods and services which country people may require from time to time. Prior to 1972 our Government had a form of price equalisation which guaranteed no greater price for people in remote areas than 3.3c above what was paid in city areas. That was abolished by the Whitlam Government because it considered the scheme unnecessary. The reintroduction of some form of price equalisation to enable people in country areas to carry on their farming enterprises satisfactorily, and indeed to survive in today's climate, is absolutely essential. I trust that our Government will appreciate the great hardship which is being caused to people in country areas by the recent increases in fuel prices and will take some action to see that country people are not disadvantaged by the increases. 
The Budget also announced the intention of the Government to establish a rural bank, and that is good news for the primary producers of Australia. Apparently  Senator Sibraa  has some doubts as to whether the Government is going to redeem that promise, but I can assure mm that the Government will redeem its promise. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Treasurer have all said that the legislation will be introduced during this session of the Parliament. For too long people in the primary production area have had to struggle against flood, fire, famine and high interest rates without the assistance of long term finance and repayment of principal. The provision of finance to assist the beef industry which has been announced since the Budget was brought down is timely and will do something to assist this important industry, which as we all know is experiencing one of its most troubled and difficult periods in the history of Australia. 
The on-going finance provided by the Budget in respect of superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers will be welcomed by farmers throughout Australia, as will the provision of $6.5m to cover underwriting commitments to the dairying industry. The underwriting commitment is of vital importance, particularly in the States of Victoria and Tasmania, and has been of great assistance to the dairying industry in those two States. The Minister has announced that the underwriting arrangement for butter, cheese, skim milk powder and casein will be continued for the 1977-78 season. The sum of $47m provided by the Commonwealth under the rural adjustment scheme will also be of assistance to farmers, providing as it does a comprehensive package for debt reconstruction, farm build-up, farm improvement, rehabilitation assistance, household support and carry-on assistance. The income equalisation deposits scheme introduced in the previous Budget has proved to be a very successful initiative and will continue. The matters I have mentioned, together with the averaging scheme, will be of great assistance to primary producers in cushioning the effect of the wide variations in income from year to year that are occasioned by seasonal conditions. 
I turn briefly to look at the position in relation to social welfare, which forms such a significant part of government expenditure. Here we find that there is a rise of 12.2 per cent to give a total allocation of $6, 345m, or an increase of $689m over the expenditure in 1976-77. It is noted that family allowances, a very valuable initiative introduced in the previous Budget, are paid universally and without a means test and amount this year to $ 1,049m. There has been an extension of the terms of eligibility for the handicapped child's allowance to allow further assistance to low income families with the custody, care and control of substantially handicapped children. Those are just a few of the initiatives and the good things which are contained in this Budget. They will enable the Government to lead the people of Australia to a successful era, following on the disastrous three years of Labor Government. 
In conclusion, I want to make a brief reference to some of the problems of the River Murray, the greatest internal waterway we have in Australia, which is of considerable significance to the States of Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia. I was fortunate during the recess to see at first hand some of the problems of the river during a two-day tour from Albury to Mildura with other members of parliament. We had the privilege of having the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  with us for the two days. The tour was certainly interesting and educational and highlighted the very wide range of problems confronting the electors in the areas in the three States through which the Murray passes. First of all, the River Murray Commission is a statutory authority on which are represented the three States I have mentioned as well as the Commonwealth. I am sure there is a need to update and review the Commission's statutory charter to give it some further authority and power to deal with the problems which inevitably arise from time to time along the river. The Murray Valley Development League, which is a voluntary organisation comprising representatives of organisations from the three States, has worked assiduously and tirelessly to bring the problems which arise in relation to the river before the government. It would appear to be the logical organisation to co-ordinate and spearhead a united approach to the governments concerned on the problems which the organisation knows so well. The Murray Valley Development League also has affiliations with municipalities and other bodies bordering the river and in effect acts as a co-ordinating body for a large number of interested organisations and persons in relation to the problems of the river. 
This organisation is well worthy of the support of the Government, and I trust that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  under whose ministry it operates, having seen the wonderful work which the League does and the problems which confront the organisations and persons in areas bordering the river, will recommend the reintroduction of the grant which was taken away in the previous Budget and has not been restored in this Budget. Such a grant would enable the League to continue its work. The principal priority of the League is the quality of water in the River Murray system, followed by a maximisation of regulated quantities. In addition, the League has worked for the enlargement of the powers and responsibilities of the River Murray Commission, to which I have already adverted. I might say that both the Federal and State governments have indicated that that question will receive early attention. I think there is also some indication in what has been said by the States and the Commonwealth that it will be favourable attention. 
I want to make brief reference to the other problems confronting the landholders adjacent to the river. Some of those problems will be compounded by the release of additional water from the Dartmouth Dam in Victoria, which is nearing completion. The land immediately below Albury has particular problems in that regard, the seriousness of which is readily apparent upon physical inspection. There is no doubt that the impact of the additional water from the Dartmouth Dam into the Murray system will have to be watched closely and some action will have to be taken to cushion the effect of the extra water going into the river. One of the great problems is that the river is a natural stream, but because of the dams, the construction work, the irrigation work, all the things that have happened on the river over the centuries, it has more or less become a drain for artificial purposes and not a natural water course. The River Murray Action Group, which is an association of land holders occupying the riverfront rural land on both sides of the River Murray between the Hume Weir and Yarrawonga, made an excellent and comprehensive submission to the Minister covering all aspects of the problem. 
The problems of the Barmah choke in the Barmah-Nathalia area also will be affected by the Dartmouth project. The Barmah and Milawa forests, which are on each side of the river, occupy some 60,000 hectares between Tocumwal, Barmah and Echuca. It is vitally important to the future of those forests that the summer flow be regulated to prevent flooding. If there were an excessive flow from the river through the sending down of extra water for irrigation purposes the red gum forests would be destroyed. Very valuable timber is produced on both sides of the river for building purposes. Between Echuca and Mildura and m the Swan Hill area the salinity content of the Murray River and the drainage problems that aggravate the salinity situation are matters of great importance to the future of the area. A great deal of wealth is produced in the irrigation areas that border the Murray River, particularly from vegetable growing, vine growing, fruit growing and dairying. It would be a tragedy for Australia if the salinity problem that has become far more manifest in recent years were not grappled with and solved. Time does not permit me to deal with the problems in any detail. Indeed, I have instanced only a few of the problems that are current along this great waterway, which is vital to the future of Australia. I am pleased that the Minister was able to spend two days looking at the problems of this vital waterway. It is trite to say that the Murray River is important to the future of the nation. I am hopeful that as a result of the very large number of submissions made to the Minister we will see some Government action being taken to grapple with the various problems. 
I have been pleased to take part in this debate. I commend the Budget to the Senate as a worthwhile document and as a document which will build onto the solid foundation which was laid by last year's Budget. With the implementation of" the provisions contained in this Budget, particularly the tax cuts, which is something to which I must return, the people of Australia will see an era of prosperity in the years that lie ahead. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister seen a reported statement by Professor Wilfred Borrie given in evidence before a standing committee of the House of Representatives recently to the effect that Australia would have a low population growth for the next 20 years with its population reaching only 16 million by the year 2000? This figure would appear to confirm the projection in the original report by Professor Borrie in 1975. Can the Minister say whether the forward planning in his Department in relation to all activities in the education field, including, particularly, planning for future buildings and teacher training, gives due weight to this projected figure? Can the Minister indicate any major changes involved in future planning because of this projected population figure? 
-The subject of this matter of urgency is the social and economic implications of youth unemployment. No one disputes that there are very real social and economic implications involved in youth unemployment. Indeed, the effects of long term youth unemployment can be both drastic and soul destroying. But the debate really should be about the root causes of this unfortunate situation and the remedies that can be applied. My colleague,  Senator Baume,  has very ably spelt out the various initiatives which the Government has taken with a view to mitigating the effects of youth unemployment. He has pointed out also that this is not a problem which is confined to Australia alone. Indeed, it is a worldwide problem. He has indicated very clearly and concisely the various programs which the Government has set in train and adopted. These are beginning to show their effects in a number of areas. However, members of the Opposition in sponsoring this motion have not attempted to include the root causes of the youth unemployment problem which, as we all concede, brings with' it very serious social and economic implications. 
I propose during the course of my remarks to examine the causes of the problem and to indicate that it is quite wrong and unjust to lay the blame for the present situation solely at the feet of the Government or to blame the present Government to any major degree for the present problem. This is not a new problem. This can be ascertained from an examination of the figures for youth unemployment going as far back as June 1967. In 1967, the percentage of total registered unemployed persons who were under 21 years of age was 29.7 per cent; in 1968, it was 30.9 per cent; in 1971, it was 32.7 per cent; in June 1 972, it was 33.1 per cent and in 1 973 it was 37.4 per cent. When Labor came to office, youth unemployment- that is, people under 2 1 years of age-was 80,395 people. When Labor left office that number had increased to 152,543 people. It had almost doubled. So the problem which we are debating is not a novel or a new one. It has been with us for a number of years. 
Figures in regard to this matter were cited by  Senator Durack  in a similar debate last week. Some of those figures were challenged and he confirmed them today. However, I think the figures are worth repeating. In December 1972, the total unemployment level was 2.4 per cent of the work force. In December 1975 when Labor went out of office and when we came into office, we inherited a 5.4 per cent level of unemployment. As  Senator Durack  pointed out, that was more than double the rate of unemployment when we were in office previously. Unemployment generally- not just youth unemploymentis not a new problem. One of the more discerning Treasurers of the Labor regime, Frank Crean, has achieved some fame for a statement he made when Labor was in office because it is quoted so often. He said that one man's wage rise is another man's job. Despite what  Senator Mulvihill  has said today, that is a statement which has now been proved to be correct. 
We all know that in 1974 under Labor wages escalated by 10 per cent. It has been said that this sort of escalation in a normal period of economic activity in a country like Australia would take something like five years to achieve. Yet in Australia it occurred in one year. The effects of that on the number of unemployed persons were sensational. I have before me a table prepared by the Parliamentary Library which shows that at the end of July 1974, 94,000 persons in Australia were registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service. At the end of December of the same year, that number had escalated to 267,000 people- almost three times as many. In January 1975 the number was 3 12,000 people. The figures for registered unemployed in Australia are equally dramatic when taken as a percentage of the total labour force. In July 1974, 1.6 per cent of the labour force was unemployed. That escalated in December 1974 to 4.46 per cent. In January 1975, it had increased to 5.2 per cent. Thereis a definite relationship, as Frank Crean pointed out, between one man's wage rise and another man's job. It is quite definite that the escalation of wages contributed substantially to rising unemployment at that time. 
I am glad that  Senator Mulvihill  had something to say about the high wage rates for juveniles. That happened during the period of the Labor Government also. We had young people starting at the bottom of the ladder at 16, 17 or 18 years of age receiving very substantial increases in wages. That was highlighted recently, again proving Frank Crean 's statement. I am sorry to have to quote a member of the Opposition in respect to this matter but it proves the point in relation to this debate. I wish to quote also from the Sydney  Daily Mirror  of September 1977. I do not think it can be said that the newspapermirrors the views of this Party. The article is headed 'Big rise in food bill' and states: 
Thousands of school-children employed as casuals by supermarkets, are expected to be retrenched because of a new award announced by the State Industrial Commission. 
The award brings all junior pay rates to the 19-year-old level of $4.20 an hour- more than twice what a 15-year-old earns now. 
I do not want to be charged with saying that we should not have wage fixing bodies. I agree entirely with the principle of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. A school leaver or even a child still at school should be able to get a bit of after hours work. We all did it when we were younger. 
There is nothing wrong with that. But when the wage rate of a 15-year-old escalates to the wage rate of a 19-year-old- $4.20 an hour- of course the economy will not stand it. This is a very important point. I do not want to take up too much time with this but the  Mirror  goes on to say: 
This 'victory' for short-sighted unionism will result only in the tightly-run operations which employ young people gettingrid of them rather than paying more in wages. 
Forty per cent of the unemployed are under 20 and now we have a situation where young unskilled people are being costed off the job market. 
That is a fact of life in Australia today. I will pass on very quickly to another matter because my time is running out. The problems of high workers compensation premiums and payroll tax payments of five per cent in Victoria all mitigate against the employment of young people. All these things mitigate against employment opportunities for young people; but, of course, the greatest factor of all, and the one that I want to mention particularly, is the unauthorised stoppages in the work force, be they in the government, semi- government or private enterprise sections. 
Bob Hawke, of course, has taken great pleasure and pride and preens himself in citing the reduction in the number of working days lost through industrial disputes. The number of days lost has fallen by 30 per cent on the 1 976 figures; but that is only one aspect. It does not take into account- I and other senators on this side of the chamber have pointed this out already- the flow-on effects of the number of working days lost throughout the community which create a good deal of hardship and side effects. The guerrillatype activity, such as the embargoes on the delivery of materials to building sites, unauthorised smokoes, bans on sections of building jobs and stoppages during concrete pours, must be taken into consideration when the number of working days lost is assessed. Because time does not permit me to deal with this in detail, I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  an answer given by the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  in reply to a question in the House of Representatives on 25 August 1977. It appears on page 627 of the House of Representatatives  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)- Senator Tehan,  are you seeking leave to incorporate that in  Hansard? 
I seek leave to incorporate that passage in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I take it,  Senator, that  the quotation is capable of incorporation in  Hansard. 
-I think so. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


 Mr McLEAY; I have seen those reports and I think I have also heard the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions using the information. Unfortunately, the figures do not apply to the building and construction industry. The statistics which are gathered by the Bureau of Statistics, or whatever source gathers them, do not include time lost through the guerilla type action which currently is being conducted in the building and construction industry by the Builders Labourers Federation in particular. Industrial action such as embargoes on deliveries of material to building sites, unauthorised smokoes, bans on sections of building jobs, stoppages during concrete pours and the like is not taken into consideration when the numbers of man hours lost are assessed, and there is an enormous loss of work and employment as a direct result of such action. For example, around Australia there are 80 projects on which little or no work at all is being done. In South Australia, which is the area that I know best, no work is being done on any major project and has not been done for three months as a direct result of the action of the Builders Labourers Federation. The total value of projects of some size held up in South Australia is over $40m, and the peak job capacity for those works- about six are involved- is over 1,600 men. The latest unemployment figures- those for June- indicate that around 1,300 skilled and semi-skilled building workers are out of work in South Australia. If the Builders Labourers Federation would lift its bans and discontinue its guerrilla action, there would be employment opportunities for very many of the men who currently are unemployed. 
There is no way in the world that anybody could possibly blame the Government or Government policies for the unemployment that exists in the construction industry. It is entirely the result of industrial action by building unions, and in particular by the Builders Labourers Federation. In fact, on one Commonwealth project in South Australia worth over $ 1 m there has been a ban- I believe it was lifted yesterdayfor three months. The cost of that ban to the taxpayers has been $40,000, on a job worth just over $1m. The peak number of workers who could be employed on that project is 100. So the effect of such bans goes right down the line. There is a ban on a very large private sector job worth $25m in Port Pirie. Port Pirie is relatively depressed. There is significant unemployment in the area. If this project were allowed to proceed peak employment opportunities there would be in excess of 800 jobs for skilled and semi-skilled building workers. The cost to the company over the three months the job has been embargoed is $90,000 and the cost per month as long as the embargo continued will be $10,000. That company is considering abandoning the project. I have prepared some tables which I would like to have incorporated in  Hansard.  In the event of not having this agreement from the Opposition - 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen the figures for total housing loan approvals for the three months to August last, which indicate an increase of 7.1 per cent over the previous quarter's figures and 8.8 per cent over the quarter ending February 1977? These figures include savings bank approvals, trading bank approvals and approvals by permanent building societies. Can the Minister say whether this trend, which has now been maintained for three quarters, is an indication of the recovery of the home building industry with consequent increased employment opportunities? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations seen the latest figures of the Bureau of Statistics relating to working days lost as a result of industrial disputes for the six months ended June last? These indicate a total of 718,100 working days lost compared with a figure of 1.4 million for the same period last year and a figure of 1 .9 million for the first six months of 1975. The Bureau's figures cover only workers directly involved in a dispute and those indirectly affected who work in the same establishment. They do not cover - 
I note that  Senator Button  dealt only with what is happening in Victoria in relation to the State Government. Not one word was said about the competence or incompetence of this Government in relation to the matter before the Senate. It seems inevitable that the Senate will face an urgency motion every Wednesday in the weeks in which it sits. This week is no exception. One would have thought that if the Opposition were fair dinkum, if it were going to discuss a question of urgency relating to the State of Victoria, we would have been discussing the implications of the disastrous strike which has afflicted the Latrobe Valley for the last nine weeks. But  Senator Button  castigated  Senator Missen  for even mentioning it. As I said last week in the urgency debate on the unemployment situation, the Opposition has its head in the sand if it thinks that what is happening on the industrial scene does not have a major and dramatic effect on the unemployment of youth. The Opposition still has its head in the sand in introducing a motion such as this today. However, in its judgment the Opposition has decided that the time of the Senate should be taken up with a motion in the following terms: 
The implications of certain land dealings in Victoria for federal funding of State activities. 
As has already been said an inquiry is proceeding in Victoria into Housing Commission land purchases. The inquiry is presided over by a distinguished retired Supreme Court Judge of that State,  Sir Gregory  Gowans, and there is still a great deal of evidence to be heard. The terms of reference have already been incorporated in  Hansard.  One would have thought that if the Opposition were really concerned about this matter it had an excellent opportunity to raise it yesterday when the Senate debated the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill. Under the terms of that legislation, an amount of $390m is being provided as advances for welfare housing under the Housing Agreement of 1973-74. Indeed, as the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said in his second reading speech, very substantial sums have been made available over the fiveyear period from 1973-74 to 1977-78 and the States will have received concessional interest rate advances totalling $ 1,734m for welfare housing. 
However, there is an important point to remember in relation to the present debate. This is why I referred to the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill. The terms of the agreement, which forms part of the Schedule of the Housing Agreement Act 1973, under which this money is made available to the States set out specifically how this will be done. The money is made available to the States to meet the costs of acquisition and development of land primarily for residential purposes to meet the cost of construction of dwellings and to meet the cost of purchase, upgrading and renovation of dwellings, and so on. The point I make is that the terms under which the money is made available very definitely are set out in the legislation. There has been no suggestion today that this Federal Government in any way has breached the terms of that agreement under which that money was made available. My colleague  Senator Missen  has referred already to the Auditor-General's report. I ask honourable senators: where in the Auditor-General's report is there any suggestion of any impropriety or mismanagement by this Government in relation to the matter under discussion? Surely one would have expected some evidence to be forthcoming as to the sins of this Government in this context. 
Of course, the Gilbertian nature of this matter of urgency is such that the matters raised for discussion relate to moneys made available in 1973 and 1974, which of course was during the regime of the Whitlam Government. They do not even apply to moneys made available by this Government. It was the government which honourable senators opposite supported which made these moneys available under the agreement. These lands were purchased in 1973 and 1974. Despite what  Senator Wriedt  says- 

 - Senator Georges, let me make my point. We had some difficulty steering  Senator Wriedt  away from discussing the terms of reference of the board of inquiry. They clearly relate to lands purchased in the years 1973 and 1974. It is reasonable to assume that if federal funds were made available, they were made available by the government which honourable senators opposite supported. That is the point I am making. I think that we have reached a new high in discussing matters of urgency if the Opposition can move for the discussion of a matter of urgency which questions the appropriation of moneys during the years in which it was in government. I said earlier that the motion which has been moved seeks to detract from the more urgent problems in Victoria and to debate matters which certainly are not within the competence of the Senate. 
However, let us look at Labor's record. I noted a statement by  Senator Wriedt  in which he accused the State Government of Victoria- certainly not the Federal Government of milking the system and syphoning off the taxpayers' money. He implied, if he did not say so expressly, that State governments cannot be trusted. He said that the Commonwealth Government must look after the purse.  Senator Button  is eager for an inquiry to be held. When I finish dealing with the matter to which I now propose to turn, perhaps the Government might consider having an inquiry. I propose to examine the record of the Whitlam Government in this field.  Mr Les  Johnson who was Minister for Housing in the Whitlam Government in 1974 sent two officers to Victoria to inquire into this very matter. If they had found anything wrong or circumspect or anything that was not above board, surely something would have been done by him as the responsible Minister in his Government. Let me turn to the other matter I wish to raise. On 30 August 1974 the Whitlam Government bought 326 acres of land in the parish of Yuroke, where the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  lives, near Craigieburn in Victoria for $1,485,000. On the same day, the vendor- that is, the person who sold the land to the Whitlam Governmentpaid $908,750. 
-I am afraid it is. I have checked the record. It is on the record in the Victorian  Hansard  if honourable senators would like to look at it. A sum of $1,485,000 was paid by the Whitlam Government. The vendor paid $908,750 for the land in the same 24 hours. For honourable senators who are not nimble at working out percentages, that was a profit of 63 per cent to a one day vendor. The Whitlam Government paid $576,250 too much in what has been termed the greatest fiddle in the history of land transactions. I hang nothing on this but the land concerned happens to be in the Federal electorate of Burke held by  Mr Keith  Johnson, the Labor member of parliament in the other place. The land concerned was purchased by the Whitlam Government allegedly for the construction of defence service homes. That is a matter entirely within the province of the Federal Government. It has nothing to do with the States. 
My information is fairly detailed,  Senator Chaney.  The land is still undeveloped. Not a house has been built. 
Not an ex-serviceman has been settled. I will tell you what are the problems,  Senator Grimes. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Drake-Brockman)-  Order!  Senator Tehan,  please address your remarks to the Chair. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I did want to come to the point because I have something pretty good to say. We understand that the Department has been wanting to get rid of the land for some time. We know that it cannot be got rid of except at a huge loss. Yet honourable senators opposite have the temerity to come here today and accuse not this Government but a State government of some misdeeds in this area of land dealings.  Senator Button  has repeated some of the gutter-type allegations made in the Melbourne Press in relation to estimable citizens of Victoria, including  Mr Stirling. 
I suppose one might say that if the Victorian Government has erred in this regard it has erred in doubtful company, if it was the Whitlam Government which made the same mistakes. I think the debate indicates clearly that certainly no fault attaches to this Government in the matter under discussion. I said earlier when I spoke to a point of order that I await the findings of  Mr Justice  Gowans who is continuing the inquiry. I think that it would be improper for me to foreshadow or pre-empt anything that might be said. I still maintain this is not the forum where this matter ought to be debated. Be that as it may, we have debated it. I trust that speakers on this side of the Senate have shown that no blame can be attached not only to our Government but also to the Victorian Government. On the contrary, we have used the opportunity to show another one of the great misdeeds of the Whitlam Government in the fields of land acquisitions. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
I moved that motion. 
I did, before I sat down. 

 The bells having been rung- 

Georges teller for the ayes, and  Senator Chaney  teller for the noes. I am sorry. We have reached the point of putting to the vote the main question, that is, that the motion moved by  Senator Wriedt  be agreed to. In the turmoil of a moment ago - 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister will have noted the September quarter consumer price index figure of 2 per cent which, added to the June quarter figure of 2.4 per cent and the March quarter figure of 2.3 per cent, is a clear indication of an inflation rate of less than 10 per cent for 1977. Does the Minister agree that this is proof of the success of the Government's policies in achieving its No. 1 objective of containing and reducing inflation? The Minister may also have noted that the announcement yesterday heralded some of the best lifts in stock exchange prices for months on the Melbourne market - 
I rise to support this legislation and I at once correct the misapprehension that both  Senator Button  and  Senator Bishop  are labouring under. They say that this legislation is unnecessary. For the third time in 10 days I accuse Opposition supporters of being like the proverbial ostrich and hiding their heads in the sand. Anyone who is aware of the situation in Victoria today would say that this legislation is necessary and timely.  Senator Cavanagh  said something about today being the last day of the session. Well, it is not the last day of the session. The session still has some time to go. He expressed some surprise at the provisions in this legislation. I remind honourable senators of what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in the other place said in his second reading speech on this Bill. He said: 
The Bill proposes important, far reaching amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The measures it contains give effect to the Government parties' industrial relations policy which was overwhelmingly endorsed at the last election. This policy reflects a fundamental review of the rights and responsibilities of the parties engaged in industrial relations and the demands of the contemporary community. 
That policy was enunciated in our policy speech delivered at the previous general election. The Minister went on to state: 
Much of the substance of this Bill was introduced into the House in March of this year. 
So there is no element of surprise in this legislation. Indeed, on 17 May the Minister made a further announcement, which is included in this second reading speech. I do not want to take up the valuable time allotted me by labouring the point. But the Government in its general election speech did flag its intentions to introduce this legislation. This second reading speech contains a major instalment of what was said in the general election speech. 

 Senator Cavanagh went on to ask us to say something about the Latrobe Valley dispute. I accept his challenge. I want to devote at least some of the time I have available to me in this debate to saying something about that dispute. I think it is very important that not only the Opposition but also the people of Australia listen to what I say about the history of this dispute. I begin by quoting from an article by one Vincent Basile which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 12 October last, when he claimed that the recent power dispute was 'unique'- that was his term. He stated that the dispute will 'make history in Australia's postwar industrial relations'. They are powerful words. In Victoria today we have half a million people who have been thrown out of work through no fault of their own. Their wives and their children are starving and have nothing to keep them going. We are at the cross roads, certainly in Victoria's history if not in Australia's history. So I think it is important that we look at this dispute. 
Why is this dispute unique? It is unique because it has placed in the hands of a few irresponsible shop stewards the future and the economic destiny of half a million workers in Victoria and beyond. In this dispute there has been a radical departure from the established practice and precedent of the trade union movement in settling industrial disputes - 
If  Senator Brown  does not want to be educated, a few other people might. The standard practice is that initially the control of disputes is in the hands of the union executive. If a dispute affects a number of unions within a State it is then under the control of that State's Trades Hall Union Disputes Committee. If it goes beyond that into the higher realm and spreads interstate it becomes a matter for the Australian Council of Trade Unions. As I have understood it and as other people have understood it, that has been the gospel- the policy- of the trade union movement in Australia since we have had a trade union movement. What happened in the Latrobe Valley? The workers went on strike. It affected some nine unions, four of them very important unions. It was eight weeks before we had any intervention at all at either the State or Federal level of the trade union movement. Let us look at the Victorian Trades Hall 
Disputes Committee. History records-not methat this Committee has hardly met for the past two years. Two decades ago it was the most important factor in settling these sorts of disputes. 
-The point I make,  Senator Missen,  very briefly is that the irresponsible shop stewards, who are acting outside the trade union movement, are responsible for this strike. The trade union movement either has neglected established procedures for settling such a strike or has chickened out of taking on the irresponsible shop stewards. No one can deny that in either case, whatever the reason, there has been industrial anarchy in Victoria. The situation is not new. There has been a trend in the trade union movement for shop stewards to take over this role, whereby we have the irresponsibility of the few against the rights of the many. The message I give today to those upwards of half a million people in trade unions who are out of work is: Blame the irresponsible shop stewards at Latrobe Valley. 
As has been said, it is no excuse to claim that the Morwell strikers had no confidence in their union leaders and left the matter to the shop stewards. That is what has been said down there. They have said: 'We do not trust Halfpenny. We will run our own ship'. Honourable senators have to remember that nine unions are involved. I have set out already the three-tier system the trade union movement adopts in settling these disputes. They have some justification in respect of  Mr Halfpenny.  I resort to history because his record is not all that good. We had the General Motors strike of 1960, the Ford strike of 1970 and the Victorian power strike of 1972. Despite lengthy and costly strikes on each of these occasions, no real results were achieved. No money was placed in the workers' pockets as a result of those strikes. 

 Senator Bishop said that there is no need for this legislation. Events in recent months, unauthorised strikes caused by shop stewards prove that this legislation is needed. In recent months we have seen a series of cruel, destructive industrial actions by oil tanker drivers, aircraft refuellers, air traffic controllers, building workers, post office employees, public transport employees and I am reminded by the  Australian Financial Review-the  darling of the Opposition from which its members are always quoting- on page 16 of today's edition, that this is the 77th day of the Bass Strait oil strike. If honourable senators want further instances there are plenty of them. Let us return to the situation at Latrobe Valley. If it is to become a general situation that shop stewards are to take control of major strikes, there will be longer stoppages and greater confrontation. This is so for the very simple reason, if for no other reason, that shop stewards lack the particular expertise, status and experience to negotiate settlements which the authorised trade union movement has. 
I have criticised Ken Stone, the Secretary of the Victorian Branch of the ACTU, and Bob Hawke for not intervening earlier. I will give the reason, and Ken Stone has acknowledged it. He said that the matter was outside his control; that the shop stewards were acting irresponsibly. All Ken Stone could do was on the front page of the Melbourne  Herald  two or three nights ago, to beg, beseech and implore the unionists to go back to work. He did everything but pray. Some of us would pray to see them go back to work. Perhaps we could go first to Bob Hawke, who his supporters believe is not all that far removed from the Almighty. I acknowledge the efforts of Stone and Hawke in various areas. That is the point I make in this debate and I make it with a great deal of force because I think it is essential that the people of Australia grasp it. I acknowledge their expertise in the field of behindthescenes negotiations. What can a few shop stewards down at Latrobe Valley do to solve a strike which affects the whole nation? 
In the time left to me I want to refer to the history of the trade union movement in Britain which shows that as far back as World War II there were concerted efforts to substitute irresponsible shop steward leadership for constitutional union leadership. The argument sponsored by the Communist Party is to transfer power over disputes to shop stewards on the basis that it will eliminate the old craft unions as we know them and to have one union and one union only in each factory controlled by shop stewards. My colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  had something to say about the British disease. I acknowledge, and I have said it today, that there is a handful of shop stewards in the Latrobe Valley controlling the economic destiny of upwards of half a million citizens of this nation. I say againand it is not directed at the great majority of migrants, British or otherwise, who come to this country- that there is a British disease. I do not know whether it is a cause or a symptom. It is those people who want to put the shop stewards in the place of the authorised union movement. Armstrong, a confessed communist, exported from Britain, is the irresponsible fellow running the show in the Latrobe Valley. We ought to examine the position of these people. I pay tribute to the vast majority of responsible trade unionists in Australia who are powerless to control their own economic future while there is this small, irresponsible and powerful group of people outside the movement who control it, as Ken Stone has acknowledged. This legislation will allow the responsible movement to which government looks, to control its own members. When there is industrial anarchy it is time for government to act and that is precisely what this Government is doing in measured fashion. As I have said, this was announced in the Government's policy speech. George Polites has been quoted here today. This is what he said in part, to the National Press Club yesterday: perhaps the real incidence for the high level of disputation over wages is the fact that the unions have a monopoly power over the supply of labour. 
The essential thrust of this legislation is to preserve the rights of the individual. A lot has been said here today about the rights of the individual. What about Noel Latham, whose individual right to work is guaranteed, as honourable senators opposite have said, by the Declaration of Human Rights. What rights does he have? What rights did Kratulis, who was sacked from the Tramways Union in Melbourne and blackballed out of the job, have? The right to work has a hollow sound unless government is prepared to back it with legislation to protect the rights of individuals in Australia. This legislation was supported in the Government parties' platform. We had one instalment in the last session and this Bill is a further instalment. I am confident that if the people of Australia have to pass judgment on this Government for doing what it can to destroy industrial anarchy, to restore the legitimate right of the individual trade unionist to work and to provide a meal for his wife and children, the people of Australia will support this Government. 
I appreciate the Senate's indulgence in granting me some time to add something to what has been said already by my fellow Committee members on this very important report. The Senate is indebted to  Senator Wheeldon  for his contribution. I understood him to say that he presented a report on this matter to the Senate in 1971. Before proceeding with what I want to say about the report itself, perhaps I should make a few brief comments on what  Senator Wheeldon  said. I think it is an oversimplification of the situation to say that, simply because the legalisation of alcohol in the United States got rid of the bootlegging problem and all that went with it, we ought to do the same thing in Australia with marihuana. I think that is a reasonable summary of the first point he made. Perhaps it is a little over-simplified but I think the gravamen of what he said came down to that. 
In his second point he pointed out the association between driving motor cars, drinking alcohol and taking drugs. One of the things which influenced me in coming down against any lessening of penalties or of reducing the gravity of offences for the use of marihuana or its possession in small quantities was this very factor. Since 1971 there has been a tremendous increase not only in the use of motor cars on Australian roads but also in the number of deaths on Australian roads. It was said at the time of the Vietnam war and statistics proved that youths between the ages of 18 and 25 were more likely to survive in Vietnam than were their counterparts at home who drove motor cars on Australian roads, particularly on Saturdays and Sundays. I think there are statistics available which indicate that. 
The point I stress in this regard- it was made by  Dr Milner  to whom  Senator Melzer  has already referred- is that the cumulative effect of an intake of alcohol and marihuana is dramatic. I think  Dr Milner  equated this to a situation- the figures I use for the purpose of the illustration are not his- where if one took six glasses of beer one would reach a certain stage of intoxication, perhaps not over 0.05, but one would have some level, and then at some other time if one took ten reefers of marihuana and smoked them that would produce some effect on one's driving. But if one took three glasses of beer with five reefers of marihuana- in other words, half the quantity- that would have more than double the effect on one's ability to control a motor car. It is that sort of geometric progression, if that is the term, or multiplying factor which operates by the integration of these two intakes into the body. 
Before I came to this place I was closely associated with the great problem of accidents on Australian roads and the need for remedies to reduce the appalling road toll. That factor weighed rather heavily on me in the very close deliberation I gave in making my decision to oppose any change in the laws in the Commonwealth which would lessen the gravity of the offence or reduce the penalty in relation to marihuana. The other point  Senator Wheeldon  made related to a rather novel theory about trafficking. I understood the honourable senator to say, in relation to trafficking, that he thought it would follow logically that if we legalised the use of small quantities of marihuana we ought either to lighten or abolish altogether the offence of trafficking. I say at once that the Committee was unanimous in its findings that there should be no lessening of penalties for trafficking. 

 - Senator Wright, perhaps that is so. The other point  Senator Wheeldon  made- I say this quickly because I do not want to take too long- was that because we have the present laws in Australia relating to the use of marihuana or possession of small quantities, that leads to increasing use of heroin. There was no evidence of that at all before the Committee. Admittedly, we have not dealt with heroin in this report but there was a great deal of discussion and evidence on the effect of marihuana in relation to people graduating- if that is the word- to harder drugs such as heroin. As I remember the report and the evidence given, there was no evidence at all to support the theory which was advanced today by  Senator Wheeldon  that if we completely legalised marihuana we would have a dramatic reduction around Australia in the use of heroin 
I proceed with the report. Drug problems in Australia cover a very wide section of the community. I think it is true to say that few house holds in Australia do not in some way or another have at some stage some sort of problem over the wide range of drugs which are covered by this report. The report deals in detail with the particular drugs of alcohol, tobacco, analgesics and cannabis. There are some comments on amphetamines and barbiturates. The report is designed to cover the extent and nature of the inappropriate use of the drugs mentioned. I acknowledge at the outset and confirm what the  chairman  of the Committee has said, namely, the great deal of work which was put in by the Parliamentary officers assisting the Committee, including the secretary,  Mr Joske,  and  Mr 
Thomson and their support staff. As has already been said by the  chairman,  the Committee was unanimous on all matters in the report except for two matters in the cannabis chapter, these being the national strategy on cannabis and the recommendations on the law relating to cannabis. 
Before proceeding to deal with those matters, however, I say a few words about the alcohol situation which, in terms of cost to the nation, far outstrips any ofthe other drugs which have been the subject matter of this report. One thing which is referred to in detail in the report and which I think is worth mentioning today is that in Victoria in particular the evidence disclosed that there was a spirit of co-coperation between unions and management in industry to assist alcoholics engaged in industry in solving thenproblems. I think it is fair to say that the evidence showed that there have been some very encouraging, if not dramatic, results in this regard. I mention that matter because I think it will be important in the future that we have this sort of co-operation in industry to assist not only the unfortunate individual who is suffering from the disease of alcoholism but also to improve efficiency in industry by restoring people to health. 
I say a few words about each of the dissenting recommendations to which I have been a party. The first, of course, is the national strategy in relation to which  Senator Walters  and I produced a joint dissent and in respect of which  Senator Melzer  has produced a dissent which deals with other matters. Whilst these two matters to which dissents were expressed represent only a small section of the report, they are matters which are very much before the public of Australia at the present time. I think the fact that the Committee is equally divided on the recommendation in regard to the law relating to cannabis, with the casting vote of the  chairman  providing a majority, is an indication of the divergence of opinion which exists in Australia today when we deal with the marihuana situation. I suppose that as far as the national strategy is concerned there is no shortage of arm chair critics in the Government and among other people who are interested in these problems. They want a say in what should be the national strategy in Australia to deal with this widespread problem ofthe use of cannabis. 
I think it is important for people who have not made a study of this situation to observe the correct terminology. The term marihuana refers to the dried leaf of the cannabis plant. As has already been indicated by  Senator Walters,  our dissent to the recommendation for the reduction in penalties which was proposed by the majority for the growing of cannabis was motivated largely by the fact that the marihuana drug is just one small by-product of the cannabis plant. Things like hashish, hashish oil and tetrahydrocannabinol, known as THC, are other by-products. We took the view that the police would be confronted with an impossible task if they were to go onto a property and say to the owner: 'Well, there is one plant for your own use but what are the 40 plants over there being used for?' To suggest that one can place the growing of cannabis on the same footing as the possession of a small amount of cannabis is to completely ignore reality. For that reason we came down strongly on the side of the law being strengthened in the case of the growing of cannabis because there is some obscurity in the law in certain States in this regard. Of course, we can deal only with recommendations made in respect of the Commonwealth. 
-Senator Wright, I think I have highlighted the problems. I would like to refer briefly to a couple of passages on page 190 of the report which relate to the national strategy on cannabis. There was a tendency on the part of the majority of members of the Committee to over-simplify the problem in the sense that because the law is said to be inefficient one discards the law or does something about the law. We took the view that it was quite unfair to blame any one factor for the present situation in Australia. In part, we said: 
It is manifestly unfair, however, to put the blame for the increase of cannabis use exclusively on any one factor, such as existing legal sanctions or the failure of the police and law enforcement officers to charge people found offending. Notwithstanding that the present deterrents have failed to prevent the abuse of cannabis and trafficking in the drug, we believe that it would be irresponsible to discard them in the absence of proven, effective alternative methods of control. 
I think that sums up our view in this regard. One does not discard existing sanctions until other sanctions are available which will work. Further, we went on to say: 
It is manifestly inaccurate to lay solely at the door of the cannabis problem any supposed corruption or deterioration of the relationship between young people and the police, and there was no evidence before the Committee to support this suggestion. 
It was said that in some way young people lost respect for the police because of the existing cannabis laws in Australia relating to possession of small quantities of marihuana. That is a theory to which we do not subscribe. I have dealt already with the question of the cumulative effect of the intake of alcohol and cannabis. 
I want to turn now to a matter which has already been adverted to by  Senator Walters.  Apart from the matters I have mentioned, the major difference between ourselves and the view of the majority on the national strategy is that we disagree with the inferences drawn by the majority from recent United States experience. I refer particularly to the passage appearing at page 1 9 1 of our dissenting report, which I will not read. Our objection to the use of the American experience is twofold. The first objection is that we do not think it follows as a matter of course that what is good for the United States of America is good for Australia, whether in regard to lowering penalties and lessening the gravity of offences in relation to marihuana or the other wider and different fields of human experience. Our second objection is that one of the nine States, namely South Dakota- I mention this again because I think it is important- has legislated already to recriminalise possession of small quantities of marihuana, and the State of Maine, as mentioned in the report, has launched a similar campaign to recriminalise on grounds set out in the report. 
-There is an indication in a report received only a fortnight ago which was, I think, dated March or April this year, that there is quite a concerted campaign in Maine to recriminalise. In any case, it indicates that people in the United States are having second thoughts. 
Another matter we dealt with in our recommendations on the law which is not covered by the majority report is the suggestion that the courts be vested with a discretion to impose higher pecuniary penalties for a second or subsequent offence by the same person. I think I can sum up very quickly the broad division between the majority and the minority so far as the law is concerned. The majority felt, as  Senator Wheeldon  does, that the offences should be taken out of the criminal law and put into the category of minor statutory offences such as traffic offences, with no use of conviction, no imprisonment and no penalties for second or subsequent offences. In general the person found to be offending in this regard would be removed completely from the ambit of criminal law. Because of the uncertainty of the medical effects of cannabis and marihuana, carnage on the roads that can result from the combination of alcohol and marihuana, and a number of other reasons which are set out in the report, at this stage we could not recommend a change in the law as drastic as was proposed by the majority. That was largely the watershed on which we parted company. 
I have already dealt with the situation in regard to growing cannabis. Perhaps for the purpose of clarity I should repeat our two major objections to the majority view in this regard. The first objection is the difficulty of policing the number of plants which could be claimed to be required for personal use. The second objection is that the cannabis plant not only produces marihuana but also contains harmful derivatives, for example, hashish and hashish oil, and the THC content varies considerably from variety to variety. 
I have dealt in detail with the minority report. Having done so, I do not want to give the impression that there is not a very great amount of material in the general report which has the unanimous support and commendation of the Committee. As the  Chairman  of the Committee said, when we look at this subject in terms of the whole report we see that it covers a very narrow but very important and topical field in the Australian scene today. As I have pointed out, a legitimate difference of opinion has been expressed by members of the Committee on what should be done. I think that this difference reflects the difference of opinion in the Australian community today. I endorse the recommendations contained in the report and I have referred to the minority recommendations. I trust that the Government will, in co-operation with the State governments of Australia, examine the report with a view to initiating legislation and action in accordance with those recommendations. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that Telecom Australia is losing $200,000 a day because of work bans imposed throughout the country and that the total cost to Telecom as of today is in excess of $3m since the bans were imposed? I understand that an application has been made by Telecom to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for a stand-down clause to be inserted in the technicians award. Can the Minister comment on the effect of a loss of this magnitude, particularly if it  is  to continue at the rate of $200,000 a day, on the financial structure of Telecom with particular reference to the charges fixed for telephone rentals and charges? 
-There is some uncertainty about the urgency motion we are debating. It is true that the motion relates to economic uncertainty and I propose to say quite a deal about that later. The urgency motion originally proposed accused the Government of dishonouring a number of election promises and it was substantially in the same form as a motion debated yesterday by the other House. We have just listened to  Senator Douglas  McClelland go back through history. However, one would have thought that Opposition members in this place today and in the other place yesterday would have regarded a debate of this nature as a golden opportunity to put forward positive policies that presumably they propose to put to the Australian people at the next federal election, whenever that might be. 
I want to get the debate back on an even keel. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  listed two areas of alleged contention, namely economic uncertainty, which I submit to the Senate is the meat ofthe motion, election manoeuvring and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  First, let me deal with the election manoeuvring and the Prime Minister. It is true that there has been endless speculation both in the media and by members of the Opposition about when there will be an election. They are worried because they do not know when the elec-, tion will take place. We all know that there has to be a half Senate election. I know that because I am up for re-election before the end of June next year. 
I endorse the tribute paid to the Prime Minister by the Minister for Industry and Commerce in his speech this afternoon. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber regard our Prime Minister as an able and prudent Prime Minister. One of the essential qualities of an able and prudent Prime Minister is the ability not to telegraph his punches, particularly in respect of when an election will be held. I know that members of the Opposition and certain sections of the media are upset that the Prime Minister has not indicated the date of an election. However, the Prime Minister is under no obligation to say any more than he has said to this stage about when an election might be held. Before I leave the subject, I might point out that if any election manoeuvring has taken place it has been entirely due to Opposition and media speculation. 
I now turn to the question of economic uncertainty and to the record of the Government in respect of the economy. This Government has reduced the rate of inflation which, when it took office, was raging at over 17 per cent. The rate of inflation has been reduced to a figure that will be well below 10 per cent by the end of 1977. This economic fact is creating economic certainty in the business community. I might mention also the tax cuts introduced by this Government. Tax cuts were at the forefront of our election promises.  Senator Douglas  McClelland had a great deal to say about the Labor Government's record. However, he did not mention the 10 per cent escalation of wages in 1974 that wrecked the economy. The present Government came into office with a wrecked economy. The present Government said during the last election campaign that it would reduce the tax burden and put an end to Labor's tax rip-off. As I said in my Budget speech a few weeks ago, the proposed tax scales will mean that from 1 February next year every Australian taxpayer will pay less and 225,000 taxpayers at the bottom of the scale will, for the first time, pay no tax at all. Surely one could not wish for a more vivid illustration of the certainty of the economic future of the nation than the Government's policies on tax reform announced in the Budget. 
I could go on and on. I refer to the Government's decision to restore and considerably extend the homes savings grant. This Government raised the government grant from $750 to $2,000 and introduced a more relaxed field of eligibility for people to participate in this very worthwhile reform. Contrast that with the record of the building trade in Victoria. When we look at the question of responsibility for any economic uncertainty in the community we must remember that there are a great number of unauthorised stoppages and strikes which create and breed an atmosphere of economic uncertainty and which must be looked at as a major cause of this uncertainty. I would like to give some figures in respect of industrial stoppages in the building industry in Victoria. In the Collins Place project there was a peak figure of 1,850 workers idle for seven weeks until the end of September. In the Knox shopping centre project there was a peak figure of 525 people idle for four weeks. In the State Bank project, which has been referred to here repeatedly during Question Time, several hundred people were out of work. Some 4,000 jobs in Victoria were lost in recent months as a result of the guerrilla tactics in the building trades. 
I come now to the Latrobe Valley situation. Now that the employees have returned to work we can look at the tornado-like effects that this sort of irresponsible action, industrial unrest or strike has had on the economy. 
As I said on Friday,  Senator Button,  this situation was caused by the unauthorised action of shop stewards who have acted completely outside the trade union movement. The honourable senator should read the speech I made on Friday if he wants more detail. 
I would like to quote from an article which appeared in today's edition of the Melbourne  Age.  The article, in part, states: 
The crisis is over for most Victorians, but tens of thousands of people will still be out of work for at least a fortnight. 
Scores of businesses face crippling liquidity problems for the rest of the year. 
Employers said last night that at least 3,000 workers stood down during the strike would not be re-employed. 
The article also stated: 
The  chairman  of the SEC,  Mr Charles  Trethowan  . . said there had been no winners in the strike, which was the most prolonged and disruptive in the 56-year history of the SEC. 
The biggest cost to the SEC was the loss of vital hydro supplies which had been stored to give security of supply until 1 980-the planned starting date for the Newport power station. 
We are now vulnerable to power shortages. The considerable insurance we had built up in the system has been evaporated.' 
The subject of this debate is economic uncertainty. But how can we expect a person in business, be he a member of a company, an investor of an industrialist, to invest in Victoria when there is uncertainty as to the future of power in that State? Over the last 1 1 weeks we have had half a million workers idle, factories idle, and companies and small businesses going bankrupt. I remind  Senator Gietzelt  that this type of activity sends more small businesses bankrupt than any so-called wrong initiatives of this Government. Let me continue.  Mr Trethowan  also hinted that power tariffs were likely to be increased as a result of the strike which had cost the State Electricity Commission several million dollars. He said that the power restrictions introduced a month ago had cost $300m in lost reduction, $150m in lost wages and at least 75m in lost retail sales. An article in today's  Australian  said: 
The strike has left in its wake bankrupted businesses, $450m worth of lost wages and production, and an estimated 3,000 jobs permanently gone. 
A further article in today's  Age  states: 
Another 3,000 Victorian workers are likely to lose their jobs in the aftermath of the power strike. 
The jobs are in small businesses which according to the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures have been hardest hit . . . 
We have some new found sponsors or disciples of small business- 
It has a great deal to do with uncertainty in the economy and that is what this debate is all about. An article in today's Melbourne  Sun  reported: 
The bill for the strike was around $500m- and that was just for loss of wages, loss of production, sales and orders . . . 
There are costs yet to appear such as sales which will be permanently lost and jobs which will no longer be available. 
So, the litany goes on. I have quoted those articles because they are a vivid and timely illustration of the disastrous effects on the Australian economy of unauthorised irresponsible stoppages generated by a small section of irresponsible trade unionists. They work to the great detriment of the Australian economy. A recent example of this was provided last Thursday when the Prime Minister received a deputation from the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures. I and some my Victorian colleagues, including colleagues from the other side of the chamber such as  Senator Melzer  and  Senator Primmer,  went over to the Lakeside Hotel to meet them. 
One member of the deputation told me- this is germane to this debate; but I do not think I should name the company although this member of the deputation said that the information could be used- that his company had intended setting up a frozen food factory employing upwards of 100 people and involving an expenditure of capital but was now moving to the South Island of New Zealand where the workers had a strike free record and where his company would not face the power shortages and unauthorised industrial stoppages which we have in Australia. This is happening all over the nation. So, if we are talking about economic uncertainty, let us place the blame where it belongs. Despite this factor which is of great concern to the Government and which the Government is endeavouring to grapple with, the Government's record in the economic field remains good. 
Finally, I shall quote an investment figure which shows that confidence has been generated by the Government. The Bureau of Statistics forecasts a strong upsurge in private investment in the six months to December. Manufacturing investment would be up 33 per cent, mining investment would be up 66 per cent and investment in all industries would be up 14 per cent. This debate has afforded an opportunity of pinning the blame for economic uncertainty where it fairly and squarely belongs. The Government is confident that its progress will continue despite the problems created by the irresponsible element in the trade union movement- I am not being critical of the whole trade union movement- and that, if we are looking for the cause of economic uncertainty, we must look elsewhere than at the policies of the Government. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that following the return to work of the Latrobe Valley State Electricity 
Commission employees,  Mr Bob  Hawke was reported in the Press as saying that he expected the Government to withdraw the industrial legislation which was passed through the Senate last Friday week? Can the Minister say whether this report is correct? What is the Government's attitude in regard to the legislation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 13 October, 1977: 
Will the Minister supply details of the number of persons employed by the Australian Dairy Corporation and the total weekly salaries of all persons employed as at: 
1 December 1976, 
1 March 1977, and 
1 September 1977. 
Will the Minister also supply details of additional federal bodies and committees set up since 1 March 1977 to administer the dairying industry, together with details of the personnel comprising such bodies or committees. 
What quantity and types of dairy produce, including particularly skim milk powder and butter oil, have been purchased by the Australian Dairy Corporation since 1 January 1 977 from overseas countries to satisfy the shortfall in supply to overseas markets traditionally supplied by Australia. 
What price was paid to these countries, and what was the price obtained for the products on resale. 
-During the course of my few remarks on the first reading of this legislation I hope to say something constructive about the future of the Australian nation. However, I think I ought to say at once that we have just heard from  Senator McLaren  who lives in the past. I do not know whether the people who listened to what he said appreciated his rehash of what was recorded in  Hansard.  I would have thought that as honourable senators from both sides of the Senate are to face the people on 10 December he might have spent more of his time talking about what Labor proposes to do. The honourable senator is obviously a nervous Nelly in respect of the prospect of his party winning the seat of Hawker. He probably shares the view held by most honourable senators on this side of the House, that the slogan Hall for Hawker' has a considerable amount of merit. We will see those words come to reality on 10 December. 
I want to say something about problems which affect the people in the great country areas of Australia. I want to touch briefly on about five matters which I think are of concern to all people living outside capital cities, people in the farming and grazing communities of Australia. The first matter is Federal estate duty. This is not a new subject to be raised in this chamber and this is certainly not the first time I have spoken on the necessity for the abolition of Federal estate duty. The State of Queensland has abolished State estate duty and the Victorian Government has foreshadowed its abolition in that State. Last year the Victorian Government provided for exemption in respect of an estate passing between spouses and from 1 January 1978 estates which pass to children will be exempt. So virtually there is complete exemption to two States. I understand that Western Australia is contemplating something along the same lines if it has not already reached that position. 
We must remember that the cost of the collection of Federal estate duty is high and that this cost has been made higher by the vacation of the two States I have mentioned from the field. The administrative costs of collecting estate duty are largely taken up by those State governments in which there is estate duty. They check valuations and so on. The Federal Government has to set up its own administrative machinery in the two States that have vacated the field. It is important to note that this tax represents only one-third of 1 per cent of the total revenue collected by the Commonwealth. Therefore, the abolition of estate duty would not greatly inconvenience the revenue but it would materially assist people who own land in country areas. We should also bear in mind that inflation has not been applied to the level at which exemption from this duty is fixed. That level was determined prior to the present inflated values of land and this means that people are paying more duty. 
The second matter I want to refer to very briefly is a very important one, It was mentioned by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  when he opened the federal conference of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council last weekend. Because of the high price of oil and the fact that oil supplies are diminishing, it is important to restore to country people the benefit of fuel equalisation. This benefit was introduced by a Liberal-Country Party government some years ago but was removed by the Labor Government There is grave need for its restoration on a number of grounds. Country people de- pend almost exclusively on fossil fuels to get f rom place to place. City people have the advantage of subsidised public transport and gas and electricity supplies which provide very much cheaper sources of energy than oil. Country people are heavily dependent on that source of energy for cars, tractors and pumps and for power generally. The price of oil will continue to rise, and I think it is only fair that country people should not be asked to shoulder a heavier burden than they now carry. I am reliably informed that this reform could be introduced by a rise of 0.7c in the price of petrol throughout Australia and would enable justice to be restored to the people in country areas. 
-I cannot convert to gallons. It is 0.7c a litre, I think. I will have to get  Senator Wood  or one of the metric experts to come to my assistance. 
-That may well be. The other matter I wish to raise on that same plane relates to the charges made by Telecom, which mitigate against decentralisation. People who arein business outside the great capital cities have to make a large number of trunk calls, for which they pay very dearly. My colleague  Senator Lewis  has proposed a scheme, which I think has a great deal of merit, that all calls, including local calls, should be charged on a time basis. Alternatively, we could have local call access for all people. With the setting up of automatic exchanges in country areas, in many cases people have to make a trunk line call to their main business town because of the draining of the concentric circles which seem to be the order of the day when Telecom fixes the charges. If people are to be retained in the country areas of Australia, if production in the vast hinterland is to be maintained, some justice is necessary for them. 
The third matter to which I want to refer briefly is the establishment of the Rural Bank. One of the few constructive things  Senator Walsh  had to say was in relation to the Rural Bank. I can assure him that the legislation will be introduced by the Government and it will be passed. 
-I understand that it is to be introduced today in the other place, although I am not sure of that. Certainly it will be introduced and passed, we hope with the assistance of the Labor Party, before the Senate rises next week. The establishment of the Rural Bank is a very worthwhile reform in the interests of country areas and of primary producers generally, who have been facing very depressed times. It will be of great assistance not only to people in existing areas of primary production but also in the development of new areas, where new people are coming in. The form of the legislation will become known when the Bill is before the Senate, and all I want to say at this stage is that it is a worthwhile reform and is yet another election promise which our Government has redeemed. I am sure that the people of Australia, particularly those in the country areas, will welcome the legislation. The fourth matter with which I wish to deal relates to dairy underwriting. I am happy to say that the dairy industry is now in a better position, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania, which have different problems from those of the other States. It is vital that the dairy underwriting scheme, which the Minister promised would operate until 30 June 1978, be continued beyond that point. 
Finally, I want to make a very brief reference to the problem of water resources in Australia on a national scale. I refer again to my own area and to the problems of the Murray Basin, the summer problems of the Barmah Choke, which affect b oth Victoria and New South Wales, and the completion of the Dartmouth Dam. The River Murray will take the Dartmouth waters and is being used as an irrigation canal rather than a natural river. There are also problems involving drainage and salinity on the Victorian side of the Murray River. Those are a few of the problems which are of great concern to the country people of Australia. As I have said, some of them have been grappled with and taken up by the Government. I acknowledge all that the Government has done for the country people in its two years in office, but I am using this debate as an opportunity to highlight some of the problems of the people who live outside the heavily populated areas of Sydney, Melbourne and the other capital cities. Those people are very great citizens of this nation. They are worthy of support, and I trust that the matters I have mentioned will be considered when we return to government after 10 December. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen the report in this morning's  Australian  relating to forecasts by the Treasury, the Reserve Bank and the Bureau of Statistics of increased economic growth for 1978 with a reduction in the inflation rate to 6 per cent to 8 per cent by the middle of next year? Does the Minister agree with those forecasts? Can he say whether they confirm the economic policy of the Government over the last two years? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware of the severe drought conditions over vast areas of Australia, particularly in western and southern New South Wales and northern and western areas of Victoria. Can the Minister say what initiatives the Government has available to assist primary producers adversely affected by drought conditions? 
-I support the Australian Rural Bank Bill which to the rural industry of Australia is one of the most important pieces of legislation that has been established since Federation. Honourable senators opposite who criticise it show their abysmal ignorance. It provides a broad framework within which to give long term loans of capital to the people of the great primary producing areas in Australia. 
From that viewpoint and the viewpoint of the rural communities this Bill is the best piece of legislation since Federation. 
I pay a tribute to the rural industries and to the acumen, initiative and determination of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who has come under criticism today in the discussion on the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Bill. Although the establishment of a national rural bank has been a major plank for many years in the platform of the party which I am privileged to represent in this chamber, it is the efforts of the Minister for Primary Industry which have brought it to fruition before the Parliament. Of course I couple with him the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  who introduced the legislation into the Parliament. 
This Bill is another example of the fulfilment of the policies which were projected in our rural policy speech prior to the 1975 election. It has been said that the Government has not honoured its election promises. I have to lay that canard to rest. It was said in the lower House and it has been repeated in both Opposition speeches in the Senate today. My colleague  Senator Thomas  dealt with it. He quoted from the policy speech. Because of the exigencies of time, I refer the Senate to page 30 1 1 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 7 November 1977, which reports the Minister for Primary Industry as saying: 
I see the Australian Rural Bank in this form as completely identical with the undertaking given by us in our rural policy speech prior to the 1975 election. That document of November 1975 stated: 
We intend to establish a National Rural Bank in conjunction with trading banks and other lenders in the rural sector to provide rural credit to cover the investment in land. 
That is precisely what this Bill does. The Minister went on to quote three other paragraphs of our rural policy. The next one states: 
The Bank will also finance machinery, plant, stock and farm equipment, lend for farm development projects for the expansion of existing projects and refinance existing short term rural debts. 
That is provided for in the legislation. The next paragraph states: 
It is envisaged that the Bank would function by relending through existing financial institutions but may be involved in direct lending in some instances. 
That is provided for in the legislation. The policy document also states: 
As a refinance institution, staff will be kept to a minimum and security and other documentation held and processed by the on-lending financial body. 
That is provided for in the legislation. The Minister went on:  . . it is completely identical with that promise. I believe that this legislation is in a form that will be beneficial to primary producers. 
In introducing the Bill the Treasurer said that it was the product of the most extensive processes of investigation and consultation and that the Bank would be unique in many respects. He said that it will be the first financial institution set up by the Commonwealth for the sole and specific purpose of facilitating the provision of finance to primary producers and that it will provide an excellent example of a partnership between the Government and the private sector financial institutions. 
You see,  Mr President,  honourable senators on the other side of the chamber cannot stand private enterprise. I is like waving a red rag at a ull.  Senator Walsh  was his usual vitriolic self today when speaking about the private enterprise system and the private trading banks. Whenever one talks about the private enterprise sector, which is responsible for 75 per cent of the employment in the community Opposition senators sound off with their socialistic policies. That is all they can espouse. They were rejected in 1975 for that and I suggest that they will be rejected in 1977 for that reason and for other reasons. 
One of the great problems over the years about providing finance in primary industries in rural Australia has been the difficulty of developing properties to a stage of better production on the one hand, while being saddled with repayments of capital on a short term basis on the other hand. This in a very real sense has stultified the development and extension of our great primary industries. It has been the cause of great concern to the primary producing industries. It is pleasing to note that the definition of 'primary producer and 'primary production' in the legislation is very wide. It covers all aspects of producing. It covers not only the normal run of wool, wheat, sheep, beef, fruit and so forth, but also fishing and forest operations. So the whole of the primary industry sector is covered by this broad, umbrella piece of legislation which will be of tremendous importance to the future development of this nation. 
When we add drought, bushfires and other natural hazards such as the waiting period in the case of grain crops, from the sowing of the seed to the harvest of the crop, together with the uncertainty of seasons and overseas markets, to the factors I have mentioned which compel the necessity of long term finance in primary industry, surely it can readily be appreciated by those who want to understand that there is a great need for legislation of this kind. As I have said already, people on the Opposition side do not want to understand. They want primary industry socialised. They do not believe in the private enterprise sector coming into this area and we must make allowance for this fact. Everyone else must appreciate that there is a great need for an institution of this type to cover the purchase and development of primary industry properties, particularly in the case of young people who are starting off in life. 
It is not contended that this piece of legislation will solve all the problems of primary industries. That has never been said. What we do say is that this legislation is a framework which gives hope to the great primary industries of this nation. All I suggest is that the legislation be given a trial, that it be seen in operation. I am certain it is going to make a great and practical contribution to the future development of the great primary industries of this nation. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is the Victorian dairying industry likely to be disadvantaged by the proposed marketing arrangements known as Stage II, as determined by the Australian Agricultural Council? Can he say what criteria the Australian Agricultural Council used to determine what Victoria claims to be an inequitable position? Can the Minister say whether the Government is taking action to meet the requirements of the Victorian dairying industry authority in regard to the Australian dairying industry marketing arrangements? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I rise to support the motion which has been so ably moved and seconded by my colleagues  Senator Walters  and  Senator Collard  respectively. The Address-in-Reply debate traditionally affords the Senate an opportunity not only of examining the record of achievement of the Government during the time of the previous Parliament but also of looking at the initiatives proposed for the present Parliament. As  His Excellency  stated in his Speech, after two years of hard work and substantial achievement Australians now look forward to the future with a new-found confidence. Australia is a land of great opportunity with great potential for development. In that regard it is in a fortunate position compared with various other countries both in its own area and in the world generally because of the rich natural resources contained in .its vast open spaces. These, of course, are basic essentials to a developing nation. 
That does not necessarily follow; it is not quite as simple as that. The Government's record of achievement over the past two years in reducing the annual rate of inflation to single figures is now history. Whilst a large number of unemployed people is a matter of grave concern to all honourable senators, the control of inflation, coupled with the Government's policy of reducing taxation, together with other initiatives proposed, should produce some reductions in the number of unemployed people over the months that lie ahead. Of course, the effect is not yet apparent of the taxation reductions that took effect on 1 February last, but I suggest that over the months that follow it will become apparent. The great thing about taxation deductions is that they put more take home pay in the pocket of every worker in Australia. People tend to spend the excess income which is generated by the taxation cuts. This increases consumer demand and brings about a situation where employment opportunities are created. 
I want to devote some of the time available to me in this debate to deal with some of the pressing problems faced by the primary industries and rural areas of Australia. I want to deal first with the dairying industry. I am conscious of the fact that this is a States House and in the course of my remarks I intend to indicate the injustice to my State of Victoria of the proposed legislation to implement Stage 2 of the document known as the Crawford report but which is an Industries Assistance Commission report which was commissioned into the dairying industry. Stage 1 of the legislation was passed by the Federal Parliament last year. The Victorian section of the dairying industry claims to be disadvantaged by the proposals which were accepted by the Australian Agricultural Council at its January meeting for Stage 2. The Australian Agricultural Council is constituted by the Federal Minister for Primary Industry and the State Ministers for Primary Industry. In this case a majority of the States have suggested that the legislation take a certain form, which I indicate is not in the best interests of the Victorian dairy farmers. 
The allocation of the State aggregate entitlements is set out in a statement issued by the Federal Minister for Primary Industry dated 13 February 1978. 1 have with me a copy of that statement. It shows that Victoria is the only State where production will be reduced. Every other State has been allotted an entitlement which accords with its present production. That in itself is a pretty clear indication that Victoria is at a disadvantage. When we look at the figures we find that New South Wales has as its entitlement 1 1,200 tonnes of butterfat and that Victoria has 99,800 tonnes as its entitlement. I quote these figures to show that the preponderance of the dairying industry is in Victoria. Whether one takes in the number of cows, the amount of production or the number of producers, Victoria has well over 50 per cent of the Australian total. Queensland has an entitlement of 1 1,000 tonnes of butterfat; South Australia, 7,300 tonnes; Western Australia, 3,300 tonnes; and Tasmania, 12,600 tonnes. Victoria has far more than all the other States put together. I seek leave to have that document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The allocation of the NAE amongst the States i.e. the State Aggregate Entitlements  (SAE's)  would be as follows: 

<graphic href="076232197802283_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

As I have already said, Victoria is the only State which on present figures produces more than its entitlement. To explain the disadvantaged position of Victoria one must refer to the situation in respect of market milk, whole milk or city milk, as it is sometimes called. It is not included in the entitlement scheme, and this is the basic objection from Victoria. We have a marketing scheme which is supposed to be comprehensive for the Commonwealth; yet it ignores 30 per cent of the total production of the industry throughout Australia. 
I have another table which is supplied by the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority. It shows, in precentage terms, the production of manufactured dairy products as against whole milk or market milk production, averaged over the last three-year period- 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1 976-77. In New South Wales the percentages of production are: Manufactured milk 27.3 per cent and whole milk 72.7 per cent. The situation is that in the State of New South Wales 72.7 per cent of production is outside the entitlement scheme and is not subject to restriction in any way. In Victoria, however, manufactured milk represents 83.7 per cent of total production, whereas the production of whole milk, market milk or city milk represents only 16.3 per cent. I think that vividly illustrates the difference between States. Tasmania, as  Senator Wright  well knows, is in virtually the same position as Victoria because 85.4 per cent of its production is manufactured milk and only 14.6 per cent is whole milk. Whole milk attracts a much higher price relatively than does manufactured milk. That has been the situation in the industry over many years, and I suppose everyone has learnt to live with it. The issue which is taken here is that whole milk is completely outside the entitlement scheme. If we are to have a comprehensive marketing scheme in the dairy industry, surely it is unreal to exclude from the impact of the scheme a significant proportion of the total production throughout Australia. 
The table from which I have quoted shows that market milk represents about 30 per cent of total production in Australia. As I have suggested, it is quite unreal for such a significant quantity of total production to be outside what is supposed to be a comprehensive scheme. Any government scheme should be designed to ensure that efficient production, at the lowest possible cost, will be achieved. It is interesting to note, as has been pointed out by my colleague in the other place the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  that on a butterfat basis, even with the inclusion of market milk, a dairy farmer on the Victorian side of the Murray River receives little more than two-thirds of what his counterpart on the other side of the river in New South Wales receives for producing exactly the same amount of milk. Of course, he would be worse off if market milk were excluded. The authority for this statement is a paper produced by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in October 1977. The position was highlighted to me personally when I visited Queensland about 18 months ago. At that time dairy farmers on the Atherton Tablelands received $1.20 per lb for butterfat. At that time Victorian dairy farmers were receiving only 60c per lb for 80 per cent of their product, the other 20 per cent being market milk. 
Therefore, there is a grave disadvantage to Victoria in that the more inefficient farmers are being kept in the industry at the expense of the more efficient farmers. It is not necessarily the human element that makes production inefficient. The accidents of geography, irrigation, climatic conditions and a number of other factors combine to make certain areas in Australia better than other areas for producing primary products. In the case of dairying the Goulburn Valley in Victoria is undoubtedly the best area. Proof of that - 
Tasmania is all right. Proof of what I am saying is found if one looks back to the time immediately after World War II. The Berne Swiss Co., the largest manufacturing milk company in Europe, came to Australia and prospected the whole of Australia and New Zealand to see where it would establish a factory. It established a factory at Tongala in Victoria, where the Nestle Co. still operates as the successor in title to that company. Twelve months later, in 1948, the Carnation company, one of the largest manufacturing milk companies in America, came to Australia and did exactly the same exercise, lt chose a place called Merrigum, about 20 miles from Tongala. These companies set up their factories in an area in which production per acre was better than it was anywhere else in the Commonwealth, where they were certain of the supply of raw materials in the quantities they wanted. 
I think what I have said clearly indicates the point that the legislation in its present form does not help the producer who can produce his product at the lowest price. In a sense it helps the inefficient farmer to stay in the industry at the expense of the more efficient farmer. That is not entirely the fault of the Federal Government. Circumstances in the States come into this, and the constitutional position affects it as well. In fact, the impotence of the Federal Government to move in certain areas of marketing has been well known over the years. It is only by cooperation between the State governments and the Federal Government that things can be achieved. When we have, as we have in this instance, well over 50 per cent of the production of a primary product in one State which has only one voice in six and is outvoted, to the detriment of the dairy farmers in that State who comprise well over 50 per cent of the total number of dairy farmers in the Commonwealth, the inequities of the situation become apparent. 
On the manufacturing side of the industry, where this quota is to be imposed, Victoria is the only State in the Commonwealth in which production will be reduced. It is not only the primary producer who is affected by the reduction in production. The factories are affected and in turn that affects the towns. There are whole towns in Victoria- and, I think, in Tasmania- engaged in the dairy industry on an intensive basis, and if the dairy factory were taken out of the town it would become a dead town. It is easy to visualise the drastic effects of a cut in production. If it does not close that factory it limits the production of the factory and leads to more unemployment. I think a strong case can be made for the Government looking at this situation again. I do not think there is any great urgency about implementing stage 2 of this proposal. In view of the drought and the cutbacks in production, given the better markets for cheese and other products, the problem of overproduction is not as great as it was some 1 8 months or two years ago. I urge the Government to ensure that justice is done to the people in the industry in Victoria who are being disadvantaged. Perhaps the legislation could be reconsidered and deferred for a further 12 months until some more equitable proposal comes to hand. 
I now turn to the question of telephone charges insofar as they affect people in country areas. It is well known, of course, that the problems of rural communities are compounded by the high telephone charges compared with the charges in capital cities. I do not think there is any greater injustice throughout Australia than the charges incurred by telephone users in rural areas in comparison with the charges incurred by city based subscribers. It is opportune that I should mention the matter in the course of this debate because this very important matter has already had a lot of Press publicity during the last fortnight following the record profit of $99m made by Telecom Australia for the 6 months ended 3 1 December last. 
-Yes. It was reported in the Press. 
Yes, I understand it was. It was published in the Press. Questions were asked in the Senate last week. Surely the magnitude of the profit should motivate the Government to give serious consideration to striking a real blow for decentralisation by equalising charges for metered telephone calls on a time basis irrespective of the distance. There are other methods of reducing the burden suffered in rural communities, particularly by country businesses. It is now apparent in my State of Victoria that the decentralisation initiatives which have been introduced on a wide and comprehensive basis by the present Government, including payroll tax exemptions, will be by no means complete unless something is done about telephone charges in country areas. Indeed, I would suggest to the Federal Government that the best decentralisation initiative it could take at this time would be to make money available to put telephone charges on a uniform basis, as 1 have suggested. At the very least an investigation should be held, either by Telecom or by some departmental committee or authority, to ascertain the cost of giving some relief to country subscribers. Responsible bodies such as the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation, the Victorian Employers Federation, the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures and the Victorian Chamber of Commerce and Industry are all urging the Government to take action along the lines that I have suggested. 
I appreciate the problems which Telecom has in regard to its capital investment program and the expanding of its facilities, but surely, as a beginning, registered decentralised industries in States such as Victoria, where the State Government is already providing valuable assistance, should be given reduced telephone, telex and telegram charges. Indeed, I know of a number of instances in Victoria where the failure of the Federal Government to act in this regard has been a decisive factor in an industry refusing to move to country areas. The heavy penalty of excessive telephone charges destroys any basis of fair competition with similar factories in the capital cities. The suggestion was made as recently as last week by  Mr Ian  Spicer of the Victorian Employers Federation that a system should be introduced which would allow a registered decentralised industry to be charged the same rate for telephone, telex and telegrams as firms based in any of our capital cities. This would be an important first step towards a uniform charge for all Australian telephone, telex and telegram charges. I trust that the Government in framing its next Budget will give earnest consideration to introducing some initiatives which would give a measure of justice to country telephone subscribers, perhaps along the lines proposed in the fuel equalisation scheme. I do not suggest there is a true parallel between the two, but that is the type of relief which is required to give some justice to country subscribers. 
I mention briefly the abolition of federal estate duty. I congratulate the Government on its election promise, which was confirmed in the Governor-General's Speech, that federal estate duty will be abolished in respect of an estate which passes from spouse to spouse or parent to child. The legislation will be retrospective to 2 1 November last. There is a promise that in the next Budget estate and gift duties will be completely removed. 
This will be of considerable assistance.  Senator Walsh,  you are a farmer but apparently you do not realise the great advantage this reform will be to the farming community throughout Australia. I think you are out of step with the farmers. This reform will be of considerable assistance to farmers and small businesses which are run on a family basis. It will enable assets to be transmitted from generation to generation without the necessity of selling part of the assets or part of the family farm which are essential for the running of the business or the farm, as the case may be, to meet the demand of the federal estate duty assessment. 
I want to say a few words on education. It is pleasing to note the Government's initiative in making available $50m in addition to existing commitments. This sum will be used to improve technical education facilities in inner city areas and country towns. I think we all agree that the present-day system must be geared to meet the changing demands of modern technology. It is good to see technical and further education, which Tor many years has been the  Cinderella  of education services, at last receiving some due recognition. The initiatives of the Government in taking action to ensure that parents of handicapped children will pay no more for the education of their children than the parents of other children pay and also in providing further facilities for the education of children in isolated areas are also to be commended. 
I make brief reference in this speech to the report on drugs by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, of which I was a member. That report was put down in the Senate towards the end of the last Parliament. The report highlights the problems of alcohol, tobacco, analgesics and cannabis use and abuse. There are now no fewer than three royal commissions in Australia into the cannabis or marihuana problem. A good deal of valuable information is contained in that Committee's report. It has been well received throughout the community. I do not propose to deal with it in any length today but simply refer to it in relation to the appalling road toll which is still with us in every State of the Commonwealth. 
I think it is interesting to note- too much publicity cannot be given to this- the combined effect of marihuana and alcohol in relation to the driving of a motor car. The evidence from  Dr Gerald  Milner, a Victorian expert in this field and a man with an international reputation, and evidence from all the other witnesses- in fact there was no evidence to the contrary to disprove the statement- clearly showed that the combined intake of alcohol and marihuana has a disastrous cumulative effect. It has been expressed in various ways. Probably the simplest way to put it is that one unit of alcohol taken alone has a certain effect; one unit of marihuana taken alone has a certain effect. But the combined effect of half the intake of alcohol and half the intake of cannabis is more than double the effect of each of the units of alcohol and cannabis taken separately. The combined effect of these drugs on the human body has that sort of geometric progression. Activities of this kind by the youth of today cause disastrous car accidents. The major casualties on our roads occur in the age group up to 25 years. 
I conclude with a few words about the role of women in society and the importance of the family as a basic unit in society. In her maiden speech,  Senator Haines  referred to the necessity to improve the status of women;  Senator Melzer  and  Senator Ryan  made similar references. I do not quarrel with that objective. What I have to say on the matter will suggest some solutions to the problem different from those proposed by those honourable senators. 
As this will certainly be the last AddressinReply speech I shall be privileged to make in the Senate, I remind the Senate that in my maiden speech some two years ago I referred to the role of women in society. As reported at page 2 1 7 of the Senate  Hansard of 25  February 1976, which I shall not read, I made reference to the importance of the family as a unit in society and mentioned the important role of both parents with the father being equally as important as the mother. 
On 9 March last year, after the opening of the Parliament, when I was privileged to second the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply, I used the example of the happy family life of  Her  Majesty the Queen as a basis on which to re-state those sentiments. What I said on that occasion is perhaps worth repeating: 
Her successful combination of the roles of wife and mother with the very exacting, demanding and time-consuming tasks of the reigning British monarch are a shining example to all of us as to how a proper balance can be preserved between what might be termed the public and private role which she is called upon to play in society, without neglecting either of those roles. 
I continued: 
Of course, there are numerous examples of other women in the community who successfully combine these dual roles. 
The family has been called the primordial unit of society: Man, woman and their offspring- the greatest influence in all our lives, for good or evil; the source of our hereditary characteristics; and the first model on which our behaviour patterns are built. Although modern psychology diverges on a number of matters, there is almost unanimous agreement that the ideal way for a child to grow up is for him to grow up in an environment in which he becomes strongly attached to those people who care for him. Furthermore, this care should be continuous and consistent. So, the ideal climate in which a child should be reared is with his own parents. 
Modern psychology now recognises that the father is as important a model as the mother and that the child needs two parents or responsible and loving male and female substitute parents. Professor Urie Bronfenbrenner, who is regarded as a world authority on the welfare of children and who wrote a magnificent article on the family entitled 'The Origins of Alienation', which appeared in the  Scientific American,  has said: 
The evidence indicates that the family is the most effective and economical system for fostering and sustaining the development of the child. The evidence indicates so far that the involvement of the child's family as an active participant is critical in any intervention program. Without such family involvement, any effects of intervention, at least in the cognitive sphere, appear to erode fairly rapidly once the program ends. In contrast, the involvement of parents as partners in the enterprise provides an ongoing system which can reinforce the effects of the program while it is in operation and helps to sustain them after the program ends. 
This extract surely contains a political message. It is good economy and essential for effective social services to have families fully involved and for a family to be regarded as the basic unit of society. I deal in some detail with this matter because of its great political significance in terms of the ultimate costs to the nation of social services which are required following broken marriages, particularly where children are involved. 
If we look at the divorce rate, we see that the rate of divorce dropped in 1977. Recently the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  released a statement which indicated that 65,788 applications for divorce were filed in 1976 and 41,698 applications were filed in 1977, representing a very significant reduction in applications. But when we go back to the figures for 1975 we find that 24,307 applications were filed. Whilst one does not quarrel in any way with the statement made by the Attorney-General, one has to look at the figures for the years prior to the introduction of the Family Law Act to gain the correct perspective. 
If we look at the cost to the community of social service payments, we find that last year the cost of benefits paid to deserted wives, supporting mothers, unmarried mothers and deserted de facto wives was $ 127m. I agree that these people have to be supported: They are entitled to be supported by the community. The point I make is that in a happy family situation- a responsible situation- the State is spared these costs. 
It is a problem. I think we do find that people are disadvantaged socially because the enforcement provisions are inadequate. But the argument I am putting is that if we were to support women in the home this situation might not arise- families might stay together. It is trite to say that a continuing and happy family with both parents accepting their responsibility for the love and care of the children of the marriage is in the long run a saving to the state. One could almost say that a happy and stable marriage where the parents care for the children without resource to social sendee payments is a very relevant factor in the social services budget. 
The Family Law Act does not really protect the children of a marriage for the trauma of a breakdown in that marriage. Putting on one side the consequences to the young child of divorce legislation which protects the irresponsible partner in the marriage, when the concept of guilt is removed from consideration in the dissolution of a marriage- I am happy to concede that that has happened in the family law context- all that happens really is that the concept of guilt is considered at the child-custody level. Inevitably this means suffering for the innocent children of the marriage. Whilst the Family Law Act has made it very easy for a marriage to be dissolved, the custody of the children and the property settlement are still matters over which the parties argue, very often to the distress of the children of the marriage who, I think, are the major concern of all of us. 
The truth is that managing a home and children can be a full time job until the children are grown up. It is true to say that a wife and mother acting as a full time housewife and mother does save the state considerable sums of money in terms of child-minding services and other social services. I support the right of both the male and the female of the species to work without discrimination and I recognise the necessity for adequate child-minding facilities being provided for widows and other single parents. But in the past 30 years there has been a dramatic increase in the number of working women. I have a few figures which I shall quote. In 1947, 15 per cent of women in the work force were married and only 7 per cent of married women worked outside their homes. By 1966 the number of women in the work force had doubled and 50 per cent of them were married. By 1975, 35 per cent of the work force were women and 63 per cent of them were married. The Bureau of Statistics figures for 1975 indicate that there were 505,300 married women and 23,300 other females without children under eleven in the work force. Studies of women in the work force in several countries show that, although a woman is fully employed outside her home, she still does some 70 per cent of the child and home care. Over half of these women state that they would prefer either not to go to work or to have part time work. Most are working to improve the quality of life of their families. For many it is a necessity. 
The issue is not necessarily whether married women in the work force are depriving unemployed juveniles of work. A great deal of investigation would have to be undertaken before any firm conclusion could be drawn in that regard. One has only to look back some 20 or 30 years to find that the care of the young, the sick and the old were family responsibilities. We have moved now into an era where governments assume these responsibilities for the simple reason that there is no successful alternative. I do not think anyone would argue that the therapy received by institutionalisation is better than the human companionship of the family, even the so-called bad family, and the cost to the nation of institutionalisation is enormous. Budgetary expenditures on welfare, health and education have grown from 25 per cent of the Federal Budget in 1966-67, 10 years ago, to 47 per cent in 1976-77, the overall expenditure in the 1966-67 Budget being $5,640m whereas in 1976-77 it was $24, 124m, almost 5 times as great. It is this weakening of the family as a functional social mechanism which is at the heart of the matter. If there is a relationship between the over employment of married women and the under employment of juveniles it springs from this major factor. 
The real position is that, as in every other sphere of social and political life, freedom of choice should be available to married women in this situation. The economy should be geared to give a genuine freedom of choice to a married woman to tend a machine, work in a factory or stay at home and care for her husband and children. I understand that the economic value of what a married woman produces in an office or factory is measured in the gross national product whereas the economic value of her work in the home is not. Surveys by the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the Electrical Trades Union of New South Wales showed that those married women who have children but who are currently in the work force would prefer to stay at home and care for their children if they were paid a relatively small amount of money for doing so. The Government should be prepared to look at a scheme which would pay an allowance to wives and mothers who elect to stay at home and fulfil their vocation as wives and mothers. This is a proposal which is now being advocated in a number of countries. 
Time does not permit me to go into greater detail so I will conclude on this note: Next year, 1979, is the Year of the Child and, whilst we are all gravely obsessed with the economic problems which confront the nation, in the long term the preservation of the family as a unit in society is vital to the future of the nation. 
I ask the Minister for Education: Does his Department keep statistics on the number of university graduates who are unable to obtain employment in their chosen profession immediately after graduation? If so, can he in general terms indicate the faculties with high rates of graduates unable to find employment in their particular profession? If there are no such statistics, will the Minister have inquiries made at the various universities with a view to reviewing the intake in faculties where a significant number of graduates are unable to be employed in their profession after graduation? 
-Has the Minister for Education seen the third and final volume of a publication known as  Australian Studies in School Performance  which was prepared by the Australian Council for Educational Research? I draw the Minister's attention to the last sentence of the report, which read in part: 
Some students, not a large proportion but nevertheless a significant number, are being denied the opportunity to learn to read, to write and to calculate confidently and accurately by a failure on the part of the schools and on the part of Australian society which must make the necessary provision for education in its schools. 
Can the Minister tell us the initiatives, if any, which are available to him to restore the 'three Rs', as they are colloquially known, to their rightful place as a necessary provision for education in schools in Australia? 
I support the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill and oppose the amendment. This legislation was introduced in the last Parliament before both Houses rose for the elections. This Bill seeks to amend the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973 in a number of ways. But first of all I shall deal with the speeches made on this Bill by Opposition honourable senators- by  Senator Walsh,  who made the first speech for the Opposition, and  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who has just resumed his seat. 
I thought when  Senator Walsh's  colleagues elevated him to the front bench in the Opposition that we might hear something constructive fall from his lips. But as I analysed his speech- I hope I am fair in my analysis- I found that we heard the usual diatribe of abuse against the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  accusing him in this area, as he has been accused in other areas, of acting as a dictator to the Government.  Senator Walsh  seemed to think that this legislation contained some hidden vice which gave the Prime Minister absolute statutory powers to impose his will upon the nation. Whilst  Senator Douglas  McClelland did not include the Prime Minister in his remarks, he likewise seems to think that this legislation contains some hidden trap or some provisions which will take away the function of the Industries Assistance Commission and give it to the Government. 
I remind the Senate- indeed,  Senator Douglas  McClelland admitted this-that under the Act the IAC is purely an advisory body to the Government and this situation is not amended in the Bill which is before us. The term 'advisory body' is the term which  Senator Douglas  McClelland used. He claimed that the whole role of the IAC was to be changed by this legislation and said he was concerned about the independence of the Commission. I think  Senator Thomas,  who spoke before me for the Government, mentioned section 2 1 of the Act. I endorse what he said about it. We think that this is a reasonable piece of legislation. Section 2 1 of the Act- I remind honourable senators that this section is not being amended- states: 
The functions of the Commission are to hold inquiries and make reports to the Minister, in accordance with this Act, in respect of matters affecting assistance to industries and other matters that may be referred to the Commission in accordance with this Act. 
The key phrase is 'make reports to the Minister'. The Commission is simply a reporting body to the government of the day- an advisory body, if we wish to borrow  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's term. All that the Government is doing by way of this legislation is to provide the Commission with certain guidelines for its consideration of references brought before it. 
I want to refer to the eternal argument which has been going on as long as I can remember and from before the time of all of us- protection versus free trade. That is a topic which rears its head whenever we have legislation such as this before the Parliament. I do not want to spend much time tonight expounding one cause or the other. I think that our Government is realistic about the situation in Australia today. In 1975 we on the Government side named inflation and unemployment as the two ills of the nation. It is conceded by everyone except certain honourable senators on the other side of the chamber- by every thinking Australian- that we have inflation under control although I think we readily concede that unemployment is still a great problem. All I want to say tonight in this debate in the context of the eternal argument concerning protection versus free trade is that in the very unusual times in which we live- these times are not peculiar to Australia but are common to all countries in the Western world with similar economies to ours where, admittedly, we have high unemployment- some caution is necessary in making the sorts of decisions which governments have to make following receipt of reports from bodies such as the Industries Assistance Commission. 
The first thing which has to be considered is the effect which the implementation of the recommendations contained in a report from such a body would have on the rate of unemployment in this nation. If the IAC were to make certain recommendations in respect of a heavily protected industry with a high labour content, the implementation of which would increase the level of unemployment significantly, obviously a government would have to look at that and say: We will hasten slowly on this; we will look and see whether we can do something without putting people out of work'. I suggest that that is the basis upon which this aspect should be approached in this debate. It is true that certain long term solutions might be available and we should never lose sight of the long term. But in the climate in which we live, we all hope that short term considerations are markedly different from long term considerations. I think we have to live with, say, a 3 per cent or 4 per cent unemployment rate, but the existing rate is much higher. 
Again I stress that the role of the IAC is an advisory role to the Government. As I said, the Bill which is before us does not seek to amend section 2 1 of the Act, which sets out the functions of the Commission, but it does amend section 22 of the Act.  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred to the amendments which this Bill seeks to make to section 22 of the Act. He sees in these amendments some hidden trap designed to give the Government arbitrary powers. Clause 8 (a) of the Bill seeks to omit paragraph (a) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 22 of the Act, which states.   . . improve the  efficency  with which the community's productive resources are used; 
It seeks to substitute the following which are guidelines or parameters within which the Commission can perform its functions and prepare its reports to advise the Government: 
achieve sustained growth in the Australian economy through balanced development of Australian industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment; (aa) improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used, while ensuring that any measures to achieve changes in the structure of industry are taken only after having due regard to the capacity of the economy to sustain those changes and to absorb any members of the workforce displaced by those changes . . . 
Surely the Government would be unrealistic if it did not amend the guidelines for the Commission along those lines. Those amendments stress the point which I have been making in relation to the present unemployment problem. The nature of the inquiries which the IAC makes into industries is denned in the Act and covers a wide ambit. It makes inquiries into the primary, secondary and tertiary industries- across the Board. I stress again that when an industry with a high labour content is being looked at by the Commission, surely it is very reasonable for a government to insert the provisions I have quoted into the relevant legislation.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has mentioned proposed new sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 22 which gives the Minister certain power. Proposed new sub-section (2) states: 
If at any time the Minister considers that there are additional matters to which the Commission should have regard in the performance of its functions, he may. by notice in writing to the Commission, inform the Commission accordingly and the Commission shall have regard to those matters. 
That is a perfectly reasonable provision. Proposed sub-section (3) states: 
The Minister may, by notice in writing to the Commission, give directions as to the priorities to be observed by the Commission in having regard to the matters mentioned in subsection ( 1) or contained in any notice under sub-section (2) and the Commission shall comply with any such directions. 
If, for example, the IAC was investigating the motor car industry, surely it would be reasonable for the Minister to say that there are X number of people employed in that industry and whatever recommendation the IAC makes should include some provision for the future of those people. I would have thought our friends on the other side of the House would be in agreement with and would support that philosophy. That is really all that those sub-sections say. All I am saying is that in the time in which we are living, when there is a high rate of unemployment which is of concern to us, the Government, which has to go the people and has ultimate responsibility in these matters, should be in a position to say to the Commission: 'Have regard to those very important matters'. I have spoken at some length on those matters because I think they are important. 
I also want to discuss the questions which the IAC considers in a reference. There are many factors- and several major factors- which influence the degree of protection necessary to a product. These factors can change very quickly and for the purpose of an IAC reference, if the industry being investigated has an export market, activity in overseas markets and the position of competitors in the industry is a very important consideration. This is a further argument for the inclusion of the sub-sections that I have mentioned. We all know that the escalation of wages which commenced in the years of the Labor Government has a very dramatic effect on the future of these industries and their ability to compete on a world market. The cost of raw materials, and the value of the Australian dollar in relation to similar currencies, are also matters for consideration. These factors all change from time to time and make the task of the Commission difficult when it is trying to rationalise all these competing interests and to report to the Government. So again, it is eminently reasonable that if the Government has certain informationfor instance on the position of overseas competitors in that industry- it ought to make that information available to the Commission or suggest that the Commission considers it in the course of its deliberations. 
This legislation also deals with the Temporary Assistance Authority. Again, the legislation is eminently reasonable in this area. The existence of the Temporary Assistance Authority is necessary for all industries. In the field of primary industry there has been a dumping of products like cheese on the Australian market, which is very difficult to police. It is being sold and it has a dramatic and depressing effect on Australia's production. A mechanism has to be devised which can speedily and effectively deal with that sort of problem. I hope that the amended legislation will do something towards achieving this end. The Government under the proposed amendment will be able to give greater assistance than that recommended by the IAC. It is a desirable amendment because quick and effective compensation or protection may be necessary to an industry which finds itself in the sort of position I have outlined. Provision is made for a review every 12 months on determinations made by either the IAC or the TAA. In the case of the TAA there is an extension from 30 days to 45 days in which to report although, as I have already said, I think the emphasis ought to be on a speedy, cheap and effective method- I am speaking now of the primary industry area where I have had some experience over the last year or two when this sort of problem has arisen- for the Government to rectify the position when unexpected imports are brought into Australia which affect the production of one of our industries. 
Some disadvantages have been evident in the existing legislation which are not entirely cured by this amending Bill but which I will mention because they are fairly important. There is no time limit fixed by statute- by the Act or the Bill- - within which the IAC has to report to the Government. It is true that there is an increasing tendency in the reference to the IAC to write in a time within which the report has to be made. The Minister in the other place explained that there are some reasons in certain cases why it is undesirable to fix a time limit. But obviously, where there is a changing economic position, it is fairly important to the nation that these reports be made promptly so that action can be taken if necessary. There are, of course, occasional delays when the report reaches the Government. 
Questions have been raised here on the long term situation. The accusation had been made that the Government may be acting on an ad hoc basis. I have already stressed that at present there is a great difference between the long term and the short term situation. I think we would all agree that in the short term situation the unemployment factor is probably the major one for consideration in an IAC reference, certainly in cases where there is a high labour content involved. As the Minister has said in the other place, in the long term the Government has arranged for a study of this aspect to be undertaken by  Sir John  Crawford who has been specifically requested to focus his attention on the adjustment problems which will eventually be faced in the most highly protected Australian industries. 
The present position in world trade is a gloomy one. Most manufacturing countries have a high unemployment rate and the action of the European Economic Community in protecting all of its industries- primary, secondary and tertiaryagainst outside competition has meant the loss of commercial markets to Australia and is creating great problems for other countries, including Japan, which have had traditional markets in that area for a number of products over a wide range of industry. These countries are now being denied those markets. I think honourable senators agree that there is a need for a continual oversight in this area, having regard not only to the changing world pattern but also to the changing local pattern, and for the existence of an organisation, authority or commission like the IAC with the guidelines fixed as they were in the 1973 legislation. We should remember always that the function of the Commission is to report. It is a purely advisory body, but in this legislation the Government is introducing some very necessary amendments to assist the IAC to prepare more balanced and up to date reports, having regard to the guidelines fixed by the legislation and the matters that the Minister may refer to the Commission while its consideration of a particular matter is continuing. I commend the legislation to the Senate. I say that there is no merit in the amendment. I support the Bill. 
-Has the Minister for Science seen a report that the introduction of a foreign virus to control destructive European carp could cause the extinction of rare native fish species? The editor of  Aquariums Australia  said that the fish myxomatosis could prove a greater threat and cause more damage than the mudsucking carp. Has the Minister's Department done any research on this virus and can the Minister comment on the veracity of the report? 

 Honourable senators interjecting- 

I rise to support the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill and to oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. The debate has ranged over a wide area. I suppose that the topic we are debating is of importance to all of us, in our every-day lives because water is something that none of us can do without. I wanted to say something about irrigation in opening my remarks because  Senator Georges  just touched on the subject. I agree with him that because occasionally in respect of certain primary industries some over-production occurs in irrigation areas, that does not mean that irrigation is not important in the overall scene. Indeed, the importance of irrigation to the Australian economy is well known and appreciated by those who have dealings in areas which depend upon an irrigation system for their economic lifeblood. 
I suppose that, coming as I do from an area of northern Victoria where we have the largest and second largest fruit canneries in the southern hemisphere and some of the largest dairy production factories in Australia. I become accustomed to the importance of water in the economic sense to the primary industries of Australia. This debate affords us an opportunity to recall that fact. To those honourable senators who are interested in learning something of the importance of water, I recommend an excellent publication entitled  Liquid Gold.  Of course, when people speak of liquid gold in the irrigation areas, they speak of water. It is true to say that those people who have lived with the system, if I may put it that way, over the years have learnt to appreciate water as liquid gold. 
I am afraid that I cannot tell the honourable senator who wrote the book but it is available. It is a publication dealing with irrigation areas in Victoria. 
It may well have been. I am afraid that having quoted the name of the book, the name of the author escapes me but I would be happy to obtain a copy and supply it to any honourable senator who is interested. I think it would be in the Parliamentary Library. Having made those remarks about irrigation, perhaps I ought to return to the Bill because that is what we are debating. 
I shall confine the few remarks I wish to make in this debate to the Bill and then speak in general terms on some of the problems of the River Murray which affect three of the States in the Commonwealth very directly and vitally. One has only to listen to the contributions already made in the debate by honourable senators from New South Wales and South Australia to know that the River Murray, which is the largest internal waterway in the nation, is of vital importance to the three States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. However, the legislation is timely because my State and other States in Australia are experiencing at the moment one of the greatest droughts we have had for many years. It varies in severity in different areas. In certain areas of Victoria its severity is very great. When we look at the conservation of water and national water resources, drought is a very relevant consideration. We must see that we conserve the water even for stock and domestic purposes because it is so necessary for the members of the farming community who live in what might be termed dry areas as opposed to irrigation areas. 
The Bill grants financial assistance to the States in connection with the development and management of national water resources and deals with agreements between the States and Commonwealth. However, I deal now with the amendment. I do not share the concern of  Senator Douglas  McClelland about an agreement between each State and the Commonwealth in relation to the moneys to be made available under the legislation. It does not refer to State priorities, as  Senator Georges  said. I suggest that that is a fairly reasonable provision. Each State should know and should be presumed to know its priorities, and I think it would be quite wrong for the Commonwealth, in the context of an individual State dealing with an intra-state water problem, to direct the State as to particular works which should get priority. 
The situation may well be different with the River Murray, where there are competing States. This legislation does not purport to deal in any shape or form with the River Murray Commission, but it does provide for approved bodies in addition to the States, such as an authority of a State or a local governing body. We all know of examples of such bodies. In Victoria the authority is the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission, which is an independent statutory authority handling all the irrigation works throughout the State. Obviously it is the authority that would be charged with administering any moneys made available under this Bill. Money is to be made available for projects, and project' is defined in the Bill in wide and comprehensive terms. I do not want to take up time by reading the definition in detail, but it refers to the conservation of water resources or the water environment, the management of water quality, the distribution or reticulation of water, the drainage and desalinisation of agricultural land, or the mitigation of flooding. All aspects of the use of water are covered. The definition also includes ancillary matters that arise out of those projects, such as the establishment of construction camps and the services necessary for those camps, including the construction of roads, the acquisition of land, the payment of compensation, the construction of diversion works, spillways, outlet works, pipelines or any other necessary works or measures. 
The legislation is drafted in wide terms and is designed to enable the States to undertake works which are necessary for the conservation of water. As has been said, an amount of $2. 5m is appropriated in this financial year for those projects. It is probably worth remembering the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) on 12 February that the State Premiers had been invited to nominate projects for consideration under a five-year $200m water resources program. The Government is aware of the problem, and it is significant that this fairly generous allocation has been made for a comprehensive program over a five-year period. 
As I said at the outset, I wish to say a few words about the River Murray. I think I mentioned in a debate last year that I was fortunate to be a member of a party which inspected the problems of the River Murray from its source in eastern Victoria to Mildura on the South Australian border. We had the privilege of the company of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who was then the Minister for National Resources. During that inspection we had an opportunity to see at first hand the problems on both the New South Wales and Victorian sides of the Murray. It is interesting to note the comments of the  Deputy  Prime Minister on that occasion, and this has already been referred to in the other place by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  A newspaper report on the matter stated: 
The River Murray Commission's present charter left it inadequate to cope with all the demands on the river, the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  said yesterday. 
He said there was flooding, erosion, salinity and pollution and legislation would have to be introduced to alter the Commission 's powers and structure. 
I suggest that if we are to solve the problems of the River Murray, and they are great, that matter does require urgent consideration. Of course, the ball is not entirely in the Commonwealth's court. There has to be agreement between the three States- South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales- as well as with the Commonwealth, which is only one of the four parties. I think it is generally accepted by the States I have mentioned that some upgrading and updating of the statutory charter of the River Murray Commission is necessary if the problems that are now manifest are to be dealt with adequately. 
I want to trace briefly those problems. The two basic problems of the River Murray which have reached crisis point are salinity and sediment loading. In regard to salinity, unco-ordinated irrigation development without complementary drainage systems has ensured that this problem will occur. Add to that combination the known saline ground water structure and the crisis surely must have been predictable. Except for one aspect of sediment loading, these problems have their origin in the catchments or lands adjacent to the stream. Sediment loading has had the effect of turning rivers of water into rivers of sand, and the Murray below Albury and the lower Kiewa River in Victoria are typical examples of that. The situation has been dealt with exhaustively by a newspaper correspondent from the Albury  Border Morning Mail  who accompanied us on the tour. He has prepared a number of papers relating to the problems ofthe Murray which have been collected in summary form, and I wish to refer briefly to some of the comments in those articles. The correspondent stated: 
This problem in the mainstream has been compounded by over-committing the stream as an irrigation water carrier. 
That will become a very serious problem with the completion of the Dartmouth Dam in northeastern Victoria, when a further large quantity of storage water will be taken into the Murray. Grave problems exist in the north-east from the source of the Murray down to the Echuca area in Victoria. I do not know how many river miles are involved, but as the crow flies it would be 150 miles or more. A river as large as the Murray was never intended to be used as an irrigation canal, but the Hume Weir and now the Dartmouth Dam have done that to it. This has led to very grave problems in the upper reaches ofthe river, and for the people below Albury the additional water will create erosion and other problems. The river altered its course, and the physical inspection that we conducted disclosed just how serious the problems were. Coming further down the river to what is known as the Barmah Choke, there are extensive red gum forests in the Moira Lakes area in New South Wales as well as on the Victorian side of the river. Of the 28,585 hectares of the Barmah Forest, about 24,280 hectares consists of red gum forest. That very large area, is also likely to be affected by the Dartmouth Dam if some remedial action is not taken. The problem has been met in a reasonable fashion by various government initiatives over the years, but the value to both Victorian and New South Wales of these red gum forests is considerable. It would be a tragedy indeed if, because an authority such as the River Murray Commission does not have the power and the finance to grapple with the situation, these forests were to be lost. Those who live in the affected areas are supremely aware of the problems involved. Having highlighted them in this debate, I hope that the Government will take not of them and will initiate action to give the Commission the necessary authority to make provision for the Dartmouth water which I understand will be coming down the Murray within the next six months. I am not entirely sure of the date, but the Dartmouth Dam has almost been completed: I think we can look to the water becoming available in the near future. The water is certainly essential to South Australia. South Australia would be delighted to have it. I want mainly to flag some of the problems associated with carrying it to South Australia. 
That brings me to the next problem, that is the problem of salinity. If we have problems upstream from Echuca, we certainly have them downstream between that centre and Mildura. In the Swan Hill-Kerang area the salinity problem is a grave problem. I have spoken about it previously. There is a rising water table and there are questions as to where one can dispose of the salt. If one were to put it back into the Murray River the people in South Australia would not be too happy about it. If one were to take it out to the salt lakes in northern Victoria some of the owners of wheat properties there would not be very happy. So the disposal of the salt after it has been extracted from the soil also represents a problem. Of course, if one does not deal with the salinity problem what has been over the last half century valuable irrigation land, producing all sorts of fruit and vegetable crops, will become barren wasteland. A physical inspection along the Murray provides evidence of the ravages of uncontrolled salinity in the soil. 
I refer briefly to what the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  said in closing the debate in the other place in this legislation, as reported at page 304 of  Hansard.  He said: 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  talked about salinity problems in the Murray River. I am surprised that a member of the Opposition should raise this matter because it was this Government which, in 1977, decided at last to take some real steps to implement action to alleviate those very real problems in the River Murray system. I can say this to the honourable member for Riverina: I hope that in the near future we- the States and the Commonwealth- will be able to announce the consultants who will be working to recommend to the governments concerned with the Murray River system, immediate steps on an interim basis that can be taken to start helping the people who rely on water from the River Murray. After that, we will, as we have committed ourselves in our policy speeches in the last election, be taking steps to take real action to solve the River Murray salinity problem. I hope that reassures the honourable member for Riverina. 
That is an authoritative statement by the Minister which I think we can note in anticipation of the necessary action being taken to alleviate this important problem. 
The debate in this chamber has highlighted the importance to the Australian economy of water. I do not propose to comment on the Ord River system, about which certain observations have been made, because I have not been to see it and prefer to discuss areas that I have seen. I stress the importance of irrigation water, indeed water in general, to the Australian economy. I support the Bill and reject the amendment on the ground, to put it briefly, that I believe that the States are in the best position to know their own priorities and requirements. After all, the position of the States is safeguarded by the agreement and its conditions, as embodied in this legislation. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an advertisement in the February issue of  Church and Nation,  the national fortnightly magazine of the Uniting Church, which called for donations to the movement against uranium mining? The small print at the bottom of the advertisement reads as follows: 
People requiring taxation deductibility for their donations should contact Rev. R. F. Wooton. 
Can the Minister say whether donations to the movement against uranium mining are deductible for income tax purposes? If not will the Minister consider taking some action to have the true position publicised? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It relates to the present strike of mail van drivers in the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales, which is affecting the clearance of mails in Parliament House.  Mr George  Slater, the Federal Secretary of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union, which covers the drivers and other postal workers, is reported as having said that the strike was without the authority of the federal executive of the union. A further reported statement of the federal executive indicating that it would direct the strikers to get back to work immediately is at complete variance with the statement by the New South Wales branch secretary that the drivers have really taken the strike out of the hands of the New South Wales branch and kept it in their own hands. The strike appears to be developing into a situation similar to the disastrous La Trobe Valley strike when the federal executive of a union was powerless to take effective action to settle the matter because shop stewards and other unauthorised persons took the matter into their own hands. Can the Minister say whether any action can be taken at government level to ensure that the executive of the union has the necessary backing to enforce its directive for a return to work? 
-The Senate is discussing the fifth annual reports of the Australian Institute of Criminology and the Criminology Research Council. This is one of those happy occassions which are all too rare,  Mr Deputy President,  on which I can agree with almost all of what  Senator Button  has said. He has made a valuable contribution to the debate. It is good to see that reports such as this one can be discussed on a bi-partisan basis. I agree with what he had to say about SOFTLY which is mentioned in the report of the Institute of Criminology. One would have thought that a body such as the Institute would know better than to use terminology of that kind. One of the things of which I became very much aware when I came to Canberra and which probably worries all of us at times was the use of initials to describe reports and various departments. Probably the best illustration I can give is that of the letters CAE, which before I came here I knew in Victoria to be an abbreviation for the Council of Adult Education. Of course, here in Canberra it is short for the Colleges of Advanced Education. Occasionally  we  do find that initials represent more than one thing. As  Senator Button  mentioned, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is probably the worst offender. Every new program which evolves from that Department- we all know that there has been a number of them recently- immediately receives a tag using the initial letters. I have great difficulty interpreting them. 
I will deal firstly with the report of the Australian Institute of Criminology. Despite the cut in funding, the Institute was able to undertake much valuable research during the year under review. I will quote from the introduction on page 9 of the report. It states: 
Consolidation rather than development has characterised the operations of the Institute for the year 1 976-77. 
The report goes on to say: 
In the circumstances, the Institute concentrated its interest and resources on subjects such as armed robbery and white collar crime, human rights, criminal investigation and the techniques of criminological research. In more specialised fields it conducted seminars for prison psychologists and criminology librarians. 
So the list of areas in which research has taken place covers a reasonably wide field and a number of important areas. I would like in particular to say something about the work that has been done in relation to armed robbery. This is a crime which is occurring with increasing frequency in Victoria in particular, where bank hold-ups have now become a fact of life. I think the judges and magistrates who deal with the people who are ultimately brought to justice- of course, they do not all get caught- would agree that one can trace in a number of the cases which do come before the courts some connection between the drug scene and the people who are ultimately convicted. It usually involves heroin or some other hard drug and the robbery in many cases takes place because of the necessity for the individual concerned to obtain money with which to buy prohibited drugs on the black market. I suggest to the Institute that more detailed research could take place in that area. I think that trend is there, but so far as I know there are no statistics available to support the theory that there is a definite connection between the problem of drug abuse and the number of armed robberies that have taken place. 
As  Senator Button  said, the scene in the crime world these days is changing. Because that scene is changing perhaps the need for research is more urgent than ever. In the white collar area there has been a great increase in the number of crimes. I suppose one might term them sophisticated crimes. They are dishonest, fraudulent acts which should be brought to retribution. The detection of these crimes does involve a particular class of detective. In the normal course, the general training for the police force is not geared to detection of this sort of crime. Again, I think this is a very useful and urgent field for research and investigation. This area might will be looked at by the Institute in the future. 
The area of crime prevention, of course, is a very important area. We all know that prevention is better than cure. If research could be undertaken to prevent crime- to nip it in the bud, as it were- it would be very valuable. The subject of international relations also is mentioned in the report. When the former Attorney-General, the  Hon.  R. J. Ellicott opened a United Nations course at the Institute in November 1976, he said: 
There was a time, when in the criminal justice system world, Australia was an outside country with only peripheral contact with the famous centres of study and learning in the criminal sciences. With the creation of the Australian Institute of Criminology this has radically, in a very short space of time, changed. 
So we have a very useful and fruitful field of contact in the area of international relations where research can be conducted with a view to assisting not only in the detection of crime but also in the type of crime which is being committed at the present time. A number of major research projects have been carried out, and they are set out in the report. I will not detail them, but there are some seven in number. They are all very worth while and are an indication, I think, that despite a restricted budget much useful work has been carried out. I quote from page 13 of the report. Under the heading 'Patterns and Trends of Crime ', it states: 
The Institute continues to maintain a close interest in the establishment of uniform crime and criminal justice statistics for the whole of Australia and has continued to work closely with the Australian Bureau of Statistics to achieve this goal. 
I think this is one of the problems highlighted by the investigations being carried out at the moment by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, of which I am a member. We have a current reference which concerns the best method of collating law reform matters throughout Australia. Because the six States and the Commonweath each have their own system of law reform it is a somewhat daunting prospect to get some uniformity of law. I think that a good example in the current scene is the Criminal Investigation Bill which was introduced into the other place during the life of the last Parliament. When one looks at the terms of the legislation and at the problems which are created by separate State legislatures one realises just how great the problem of establishing uniformity in the law is. I refer to the situation in Victoria, where there has been a royal commission, and to the situation in Queensland. Neither of those States has yet decided what legislation, if any, might be introduced by way of law reform in the criminal investigation field. 
It is good to know that the Institute is looking at the sorts of problems which I have underlined in relation to obtaining uniformity, particularly in criminal law. The major research projects cover a wide field: The position of police unions and their impact on police administration; juvenile justice; and white collar crime, which I have mentioned already. Even the Institute's 10 minor research projects cover a wide and useful field of investigation. Training projects are also carried out. Due to financial restrictions it was possible to conduct only 16 of the 28 training projects originally approved in this regard. They are also very valuable in improving the investigatory method of reform of the criminal law. The Institute 's activities cover such diverse aspects as a seminar of prison psychologists, the role of the police in juvenile delinquency and criminal justice research methodology. I commend this very valuable report of the Australian Institute of Criminology to the Senate. I wish to say a few brief words about the Criminology Research Council, which has funded a number of research projects.  Senator Button  and I have already mentioned the Social Options for Teenagers Like You program, but there are also projects concerning such things as police stress, school programs to reduce delinquent behaviour, a manpower analysis of police recruitment and retention, and avoiding delay in magistrates courts, which is a very real problem for the legal profession in my State of Victoria and, I understand, in other States. 
No one has yet devised a method to avoid the situation in which a busy lawyer who has one case before a court has to wait three or four hours at court before his case is called on or finds that the police are not ready to proceed and so on. There can be all sorts of delays in those areas. It is good to see this sort of problem being tackled on a national basis. All in all, the Council has undertaken 14 projects. This debate affords us a brief opportunity to evaluate these two reports. As  Senator Button  has said, we do not have an opportunity to debate all the reports which come before the Senate. I think that we can say that in the area covered by these two reports very useful work has been done. I commend the reports to the Senate. 
-I ask the Attorney-General whether he can confirm his recent statement, as  reported in yesterday's  Australian  that he would ask the States to pass legislation handing over to the Family Court their custody responsibilities. Has he any information as to the attitude of the States in relation to this suggestion? In the event that all the States do not agree to the suggestion, will he proceed in the case of those States which do agree? 
-I support the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Bill which, despite what has been said by  Senator Walsh  and  Senator Grimes  of the Opposition, restores a measure of justice to people who live outside the capital cities of Australia. It is important to realise that this Bill fulfils an election promise. 
Obviously there is some misunderstanding of that precise promise. Certainly  Senator Walsh  was under a misapprehension. Obviously he has some friends on the other side who are under a similar misapprehension. 
Seantor TEHAN-I shall read the policy speech given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It was quoted by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in the other place when he was closing the debate. Dealing with the proposal the Prime Minister stated: 
This will be done - 
That is the equalisation of price between city and country-  by subsidising freight costs outside the metropolitan area on motor spirit, aviation fuel, automotive distillate and power kerosene. In effect, it will reintroduce the country freight differential scheme abandoned by the Labor Government. 
That is what the Prime Minister said. 
The Prime Minister said that in the policy speech. I hope the honourable senator does not want me to read it again. He will find those words if he looks at the  Hansard  report of the other place. I return to the remarks of  Senator Walsh.  He went through a long list of places throughout Australia- I think he covered almost every State, including Tasmania- which would not get the benefit. He then went on to say that the Prime Minister had estimated that this initiative by the Government would cost $3 6m. I am not certain of the period but his figure, not mine, was $36m. Obviously if there is to be a benefit of $36m to people in the isolated areas of Australia at least some of the electors who live outside the capital cities will get a benefit. 
Why say there is no benefit in the legislation? 
-Senator Walsh. 

 - Senator McLaren was not here to hear  Senator Walsh.  I listened to him carefully. The abolition of the freight differential scheme by the Labor Government was a heavy penalty to people and industry in the country throughout the length and breadth of Australia. That doubtless led to the disastrous defeat which the Labor Party has suffered in country areas since that subsidy was removed. I think that is a valid comment. The electors exercised their judgment. There is no doubt that when the Labor Government, by administrative act, removed that existing subsidy, if we can call it that- I do not think it matters much what we call it- it took from the people who live away from the seaboard and for whom fuel is a necessity some compensation for the very high difference in price. We have to remember that there is a great disparity in price between city regions and country areas. 
It has been estimated that in some remote areas the difference is as high as 35c to 40c a gallon. I think a member in the other place said there were areas where there was a price differentiation of 50c in the gallon. There are numerous areas in Australia where the price in the country is far and away above that in the city. It must also be remembered that 19.5 per cent- a significant percentage- of all refined petroleum produced is used in the rural sector. The transport sector uses 21.3 per cent. When we consider the transport sector we must remember that a great amount of fuel is used in carrying goods from the seaboard to the inland areas of Australia, particularly areas which are not served by rail. We must remember that in the housing industry, the building industry, the construction industry or any secondary industry the cost of transporting raw material such as timber or goods, or whatever they may be, to inland centres is a decisive factor in the cost of production in that centre. It is idle to say and not looking at the reality of the situation to suggest that this legislation will not materially benefit people in country areas. 
I will come to that if  Senator Georges  will be patient. The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's policy decision to reduce the price paid for certain petroleum products by consumers in country areas throughout Australia. I have already listed the products so I shall not repeat them. They are four in number. The method of effecting the price reduction or the modus operandi of the scheme will be to subsidise country freight differentials so that country consumers of the products covered by the Bill will pay a price which will include no more than 4c per gallon or 0.9c per litre of the transport costs. 
Tasmania has been mentioned in this debate. One would not be doing justice to people who represent that State in the Parliament if one did not concede that there are freight problems, apart altogether from the matter covered by this Bill, which are apparent in relation to Tasmania. All freight which is carried to and from that State does a great deal to detract from the economy of that State. I think we concede that.  Senator Grimes  missed a point when he said that no one in Tasmania will benefit from the Bill. The situation is that there is no greater differential than 4c a gallon between Hobart or Launceston and other places in Tasmania. Having regard to the size of the State that is a fairly reasonable conclusion. That is not to say that I do not agree that there are problems associated with petrol as there are with any commodity which arrives in Tasmania by ship. But I suggest that is a subject matter for some other legislation or for some other inquiry. It is important to remember what this Bill is designed to do; it is designed to reimburse people who live in remote areas and whose freight cost to get petrol from the capital cities or seaboard- from wherever it comes from the lists of ports which  Senator Walsh  was good enough to mention- is more than 4c a gallon. The difference will be paid by way of subsidy. That is what the legislation is designed to do. I suggest that that in fact is what it will do. 
Perhaps  Senator Georges  will be patient enough to listen. For example, if the cost of transport to a particular country area is 10c gallon the subsidy will amount to 6c a gallon. The scheme will mean that a purchaser in that area will pay only 4c a gallon more than the city price. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development whether he is aware of recent Press reports describing a new process being developed by the Mobil Oil Corporation whereby methanol is converted directly to gasoline. Can the Minister inform the Senate as to what steps the Government has taken to examine this new process? 
Will it necessitate a major re-assessment of Australian plans for a joint feasibility study with West Germany into synthetic fuel processes? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry who will be aware of the current dispute in South Australia and Western Australia affecting live sheep exports to the Middle East. He will be aware also of the threats which these current bans pose to the livelihoods of many thousands of Australian farmers and to Australia's reputation as a reliable trading partner. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether there is any substance to claims by meat workers that a continuation of current live sheep exports to the Middle East will seriously jeopardise their employment prospects in meat processing works? Instead, is it not true that current livestock export bans are seriously prejudicing employment prospects for other workers and trade unionists within the general meat and livestock industry? 
Is the Minister for Education aware of recent reports in the Press and elsewhere alleging a drop in the standard of basic skills acquired by Australian children at school? Can the Minister verify these reports or  alternatively state the current situation in respect of basic skills? 
I support the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Amendment Bill, which is a very short Bill which is not opposed by the Opposition. I think we are indebted to  Senator Wriedt  for his contribution to the debate, in which he dealt with the problems of Tasmania in the marketing of apples. He made reference also to the difficulties the industry experiences by reason of the absence of an adequate insurance system against loss if a crop is destroyed by storm, tempest or other act of God; in other words, by natural means. I think that this aspect is worthy of some consideration in this debate. I think the effects are felt on a wide plane throughout the fruit industry. 
I recall very vividly the ravages to the dried fruits crop and the grape crop in the Mildura area of Victoria and in adjacent areas in, I think, both South Australia and New South Wales last year. In Victoria there was a voluntary scheme of insurance which proved to be totally inadequate to meet the losses suffered. In fact, it was only a drop in the ocean compared with the losses experienced. I should add that the responsibility for devising an insurance scheme which enables growers to withstand these sorts of losses when the unexpected happens rests with the States. So far as I am aware, to date no compensation of any sort has been forthcoming for these unfortunate growers. I think that this illustrates the insurance problem which does occur with frequency in the industry. Many years ago the canning fruits industry had a system of hail insurance which proved to be very difficult to finance. I think that with the updating of marketing schemes and with the expertise which ought to be available in industry we should be looking for a situation where the sort of disaster which  Senator Wriedt  mentioned could be covered. 
This Bill is a marketing Bill. It will enable the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to borrow, with Commonwealth guarantee, moneys to promote the sale and consumption of apples and pears and apple and pear products. The design of the Bill is to widen the financial charter of the Corporation so that it will be in a better position to grapple with the marketing problems which afflict not only this section of primary industry but, indeed, the canning fruits industry, the beef industry and other primary industries in Australia today. I think it is true to say that in the present climate of primary industry the critical factor in the industry is the ability of the producer to get an adequate price for his product. I think it is now realised both by government and private industry-probably above all by the producers in private industry- that expertise in the market place is needed if the fruit is to be disposed of at a satisfactory price. 
We are reminded vividly of the marketing problems we face today because of the present attitude of the European Economic Community. The Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  recently returned from overseas and presented an excellent detailed paper on the grave economic problems which the attitude of the EEC towards what were our traditional markets is causing not only to Australia but also to a vast number of producing nations, such as Japan and the United States of America. These are grave and novel problems which have not really been experienced before in those areas. 
Although this Bill is perhaps a relatively small marketing Bill, I think it is important particularly to apple and pear growers. It is also important in the context of the general problems we face today in marketing our primary products. The new powers which will be vested in the Corporation to give it the necessary ability to cope adequately with the marketing problems are set out in clause 4 of the Bill, which will empower the Corporation to borrow moneys for the purpose of: 
exercising its power to engage in trade; 
performing its function of promoting the export from Australia of apples and pears; 
performing its function of promoting trade and commerce in apples and pears among the States, between States and Territories and within the Territories: or 
performing its function of encouraging the consumption of apples and pears in the Territories. 
The Bill will adequately arm the Corporation with the necessary powers to promote the sale of the products without waiting for funds to come in from the levies which are imposed on sales. The main promotional period for export apples is from May to July, and for domestic apples it is from March to July. It is essential that the Corporation has the funds to enter into marketing promotion schemes during those periods so that the annual crop will be sold. I think it is interesting to note that apples present a problem primarily to Tasmania, which I think supplies twothirds of the export market and one-third of the domestic market. The Goulburn Valley in Victoria, in which I reside, is the major producer in Australia of export pears. 
I think it is worthy of note that some three or four years ago, in the face of the problems facing the apple and pear industry, particularly in regard to export apples and pears but also in regard to canning pears the Government found it necessary to reduce the production to bring it into line with the needs of the depressed market. Something of the order of 40 per cent of the pear trees in the Goulburn Valley area in Victoria, which is the pear production area, were actually removed during that period to reduce the quantity of fruit available to somewhere near the market demand and to ensure that there was not a complete glut on the market and a significant amount of unsalable fruit. I recall that some years ago a prominent member of the industry in the Goulburn Valley said that if a slice of pear could be put into the lunch of each Japanese school child each day the problems of the Australian pear industry would be over because almost the entire crop could be absorbed in that way. Apparently our marketing sophistication and expertise has not yet reached that stage. However, that does illustrate the sort of initiative that has to be excercised in the marketing of fruit. Indeed, the pear export industry is now selling about half of its fruit in the South East Asian region, and good sales to the United States of America have also been reported. The trends indicate that, in the current climate, the apple and pear industry is enjoying better times than it was over the past couple of years. Of course, that is no reason for complacency, but the markets to which I have referred do indicate that the Corporation has not been idle in seeking out and promoting new markets as an alternative to the loss of the EEC. 
I wish to mention a couple of other matters relating to the activities of the Corporation in the context of marketing promotion, which I have indicated as being critical and important in almost every primary industry today. I want to refer firstly to the fact that a public relations officer has been appointed recently to co-ordinate the promotion and advertising activities of the Corporation so that the maximum cost benefit will be obtained from the moneys spent. I think that appointment is showing some results. The second matter to which I wish to refer is that of the Corporation, with the Canned Fruits Board and other similar bodies, is assisting financially a three-year project at Monash University in Melbourne to research the importance of fibre in a healthy diet. I am told by the experts that fruit and vegetables in general are essential elements in a fibre diet and, speaking in terms of fibres, apples and pears are pleasant to eat. I am pleased to say that the reports which were referred to in detail in the other place, and I will not repeat them here, indicate an increasing awareness by the public of the importance of fibre in a healthy and balanced diet and that the research project is producing some results. I am confident that the extension of the powers of the Corporation effected by this Bill will be in the best interests of the industry. That extension will enable the Corporation to continue to expand its efforts in the essential area of new markets. With the Corporation exercising those functions, I think better days lie ahead for the apple and pear export industry and for the domestic market for raw fruit. 
-Briefly, I should clear up a couple of points raised by  Senator Wright. Senator Missen  said by way of interjection that the second reading speech by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  does disclose the information. I mentioned it in my speech. I mentioned by way of interjection what the Co-operative had in liquid funds. Briefly, it has debts of $ 14m. It has S5m in liquid funds and this $9m loan which is the subject matter of the joint guarantee by the State and Federal governments. This will put it in a situation in which it will pay all its debts and it will owe the mortgagee, who will be guaranteed by the State and Federal governments, $9m. I think I made it clear in my speech during the second reading debate that it will be able to trade itself out of a situation, having regard to reports both by the auditors and the receivers. 
I ask the Attorney-General and Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: In view of the difficulties which have recently been experienced in maintaining export contracts, the importance of export trade to our economy, and the damage to our international trading reputation due to our failure to maintain delivery schedules because of industrial troubles on the waterfront, will the Government give consideration to introducing legislation under section 51(1) of the Constitution which gives the Government power to enact laws with respect to trade and commerce with other countries, thus enabling exporters to fulfil their international commitments? Can he indicate whether the Government has in contemplation any legislation in this regard? 
-The Senate is debating a matter of public importance, the words of which are: 
The effect of the 'new federalism' on CommonwealthState financial arrangements. 
First, I think it is significant to make a very brief comment on the word 'new'. It is true that it was one of the policies which swept us into office with an overwhelming majority in 1975; but I think one must remember that we are now in the year 1 978. The policy has been tried and it has been an enormous success. In fact I think it was one of the successes of the Government during the life of the last Parliament. I think it is true to say that one of the major issues in the 1975 election campaignSenator Gietzelt is still propounding the proposition- was that federalism will not work and that all power should be centralised in Canberra. I suppose this debate is about philosophies because we on this side of the chamber propound the policy of division of powers, the right of the States and local government to receive their legitimate share of the tax revenues of the Commonwealth and to spend it without direction by the Commonwealth on items which they think are of greatest priority. I suppose we can look forward to a number of debates of this kind. We may even reach a similar situation to that which has been the case since Federation with debates between the free traders and the protectionists. Honourable senators on this side of the House very definitely support the federalism policy as against the centralist policy, which was the policy of the Whitlam Government during its period of office. As I have already said, and as previous speakers from this side of the House have said, in 1975 and 1977 the people of Australia left us under no illusion that they supported overwhelmingly our philosophy. 
But I think we have to look at the record to see what the facts are and what has been done in this area. I would like to have incorporated in Hansard some figures from the 1977-78 Budget Paper No. 7 showing payments to or for the States and local government authorities for this financial year. Table 2 sets out the funds to States for recurrent purposes. It shows what has been happening. In 1 974-75 the total funds for recurrent purposes were $3, 735m and this year they are up to $7,222m. That shows the whole picture. The figures do not lie. 
I am happy,  Senator, rather  than to argue with you across the floor, to have incorporated the whole of that table, if you are agreeable. 

 - Mr President, I gather that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has no objection to the incorporation of the whole of Table 2 which is on page 6 of that 
Budget Paper. I seek leave to have it incorporated. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="076232197804125_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

I think the figures speak for themselves because in this debate the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs  (Senator Carrick)  has been accused in strong terms of treating the truth lightly. If the facts are on record no one can dispute them. I think that in a debate of this nature we on the Government side are afforded the opportunity of reviewing the three years during which federalism has been in operation, giving the necessary examples and statistics to prove the great benefits bestowed on the States and local government. There is an old adage that the proof of the pudding is in the eating. 
I readily concede that. I think a number of people on the Government side would agree with me that when this policy was first mooted there was scepticism and doubt from both the States and local government. Since the policy has been in operation and we have seen its effects, the attitude of both the States and local government has been overwhelmingly in favour of it. 
I remind honourable senators on the opposite side of the House that there was a Premiers Conference shortly before the last Federal election. The Premiers came to Canberra to see the Prime Minister and they all went away happy. I think on that occasion they were given 39.87 per cent of the previous years ' personal income tax collections. For the record, the figures show- I have them here- that the States now receive a guaranteed share of personal income tax on a percentage basis. We have passed the eternal arguments about a fixed sum. This share is fixed on a percentage basis of personal income tax. Nothing could be fairer than that. The attitude of the Federal Government is typical of the federalism policy. We give a certain amount to the States and a certain amount to local government. In that context their general revenue funds were increased by 19.6 per cent in 1976-77 and by a further 18 per cent in 1977-78. As I have said before, in 1977-78 the total share will be 39.87 per cent of the previous year's personal income tax collections. Local government, which is in a similar position, now receives 1.52 per cent of income tax collections. It was guaranteed in the policy speech of the Government parties that this figure would be increased to 2 per cent. 
Those honourable senators who move around the States we represent find that all municipalities, without exception, are happy with this situation, particularly when they compare it with the situation under the Labor Government where they had to go to a regional centre and public servants came down from Canberra and told the local government people not only what they were going to get but also what they had to spend it on. That is basically one of the fundamental differences in the two philosophies. On the one hand is the Government's policy which leads to autonomy and discretion for State and local governments on how they will spend these moneys. The dread hand of centralism does not take control at every point directing that the money must be spent on this or that. State Grants Commissions have been set up to deal with local government allocations and the proportion of tied specific purpose payments in the total Commonwealth funds available to the States has been greatly reduced in favour of untied general revenue funds which the States are free to spend as they choose. Again, this is an example of our federalism policy in action. 
The States now can reduce their taxes. The record proves that. If we look at the record for 1976-77, we see that there were reductions in State taxation. This occurred again in 1977-78 with the exception of one small area in Tasmania. Time probably will not permit me to cite the 1976-77 figures but I shall refer to the figures for 1977-78. There was taxation relief in probate duty in New South Wales, Victoria, Western Australia annd Tasmania. There was a reduction in payroll tax rates in all States. There was a reduction in land tax in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania; reductions in gift duty in Victoria; in workers ' compensation in Victoria and Queensland; in stamp duty in New South Wales and in poker machine tax in New South Wales. It goes on. Road transport permit fees were abolished in Queensland, and the statutory levy on the Hydro-Electric Commission in Tasmania was abolished. All payments to the States, including Loan Council borrowings, totalled $ 10,207m in 1977-78. That is the picture of federalism in operation. 
Let us deal for a moment with Tasmania.  Senator Wriedt,  who led the debate on this matter of public importance, foreshadowed this debate last weekend in Tasmania's Press. If only for that reason, I think it is relevant to give some details on Tasmania. The main charge in today's debate, so far as Tasmania is concerned, is that it is in some way disadvantaged by the Government 's policy. As the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs said, one must look at the situation in the light of the Whitlam Labor Government's performance which had the effect of increasing the consumer price index in Hobart between December 1973 and December 1975 by 25.9 per cent. All honourable senators know that inflation was running at a rate of over 16 per cent in December 1975. The current rate of inflation, of course, is less than 9 per cent and falling. Under the tax sharing arrangements, Tasmania has been assured of the greatest flow of Commonwealth untied funds in its history. In the two years from 1975-76 to 1977-78, Tasmania's share of general revenue assistance has risen from $ 156.8m to $2 14.6m or 36.8 per cent. Local government in Tasmania also has shared in the recent boost to Tasmania's revenue. In 1975-76, Tasmanian local government received only $2.29m of revenue assistance. This year it will receive $5.29m, an increase of 130.8 per cent. In addition, this Government 's policies provide for urban public transport. Tasmania will receive at least $5m over the next five years. An amount of $3m has been made available for rural arterial roads in 1977-78, an increase of 20 per cent over the previous year. In addition, an amount of $4.9m has been made available for rural local roads in 1977-78, an increase of 20 per cent over the previous year. 
The Callaghan report which was commissioned specifically for Tasmania's welfare contains no specific expenditure proposals but the implementation of the 10 point plan may involve the Commonwealth in substantial expenditure. With regard to mining, the Commonwealth Government has looked after the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd and is still prepared to do so. Freight equalisation is another initiative of this Government which has helped Tasmania. There is no doubt at all in my mind that this debate is an opportunity for honourable senators on this side of the House to stress again to the people of Australia what federalism is all about. Not only does it provide both the States and local government with more revenue but probably more importantly in the long term it gives to Australian citizens, the local people who know the local conditions, the right to set priorities, autonomy and discretion in the spending of funds. I return to my opening remarks. If there is to be a debate about philosophy, if there is to be a watershed between federalism and centralism -and that is what it may well be- let us look at the situation. In 1975 and 1977 the people of Australia overwhelmingly supported this Government. I have no doubt that after hearing this debate they will continue to do so. 
Motion (by  Senator Carrick)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
I briefly rise to support the Bill because I understand that in the interests of people whom I represent it is necessary that this Bill be passed with urgency and that it be available at the earliest possible date for a supreme court hearing in Melbourne. I should say two things at the outset. The first is that the people whose interest I seek to protect in supporting this legislation are the 10,000 primary producer-farmer shareholders. The second thing I should say is that I have no shares in the Co-operation Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd. I say that for the benefit of  Senator Walsh  in case he feels that I have failed to declare an interest. I have no financial interest in this co-operative. Because  Senator Walsh  has raised the question of the propriety of a government assisting a company in the situation which this one is in I have to spend a few minutes, however briefly, on explaining the peculiar and unusual reasons this legislation is necessary. 
I do not want to refer in great detail to the history of the co-operative. That has already been canvassed.  Senator Wriedt  gave details and in the other place a number of speeches were made. The situation simply is that this co-operative initially was formed by some 10,000 primary producers for the purpose of controlling their product from the time it left the farm, until it was slaughtered and ready for sale. The co-operative was formed about 20 years ago. It traded successfully for some time. In 1 969 a scheme of arrangement was approved by the Victorian Supreme Court. Under the terms of that scheme the co-operative raised some $700,000 from its shareholders and  Mr Leslie  Phillip Smart, a senior partner in the chartered accountants firm of Marquand and Co.- a prominent firm in Melbournewas appointed administrator. Under his administration the company continued successful operations. It was completely viable. 
In 1969. It traded satisfactorily and into a strong financial position. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The Co-operative then agreed to purchase the Bendigo and Ballarat abattoirs, which were operating at a loss, from the Victorian Inland Meat Authority. This purchase, together with substantial extensions and improvements to the main works of the Authority at Brooklyn, was possible because of a loan of $6. 3m from the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Under the terms of that loan the AIDC had the right to appoint four directorsa right which I understand it never in fact exercised. A further stipulation under the terms of the loan was that  Mr Smart  would be appointed not only  chairman  of the board but also managing director with virtually dictatorial powers. That appointment was indeed outside the rules of the legislation under which the Cooperative was constituted. 
Although  Mr Smart  was a very capable manager, figures which I have before me indicate that between the years 1971 and 1974 a total amount of $ 1.862m of the funds of the Cooperative, made up of 35 individual payments, was transferred out of the books of the company through the firm of chartered accountants of which  Mr Smart  was a senior partner before undertaking his employment with the Cooperative. I have details of these payments. I briefly make the following points. The money channelled- an amount of $ 1.8m- was an essential part of the working capital of the company. It was not surprising that the company later in 1975- as I have already said, these payments were from 1971 to 1974- found itself in receivership. The strange thing about this channelling of $1.8m over a period of four years is that it was not discovered by the auditors of the Cooperative. I think  Senator Walsh  will agree that some very unusual circumstances are involved in this matter. 
As I said at the outset, my concern is for the 10,000 farmer shareholders in the Co-operative. The receivers appointed were Messrs John Hilliard and David Alexander Crawford from the firm Peart Marwick Mitchell and Co. A writ was issued out of the Supreme Court of Victoria claiming $ 1.862m from Smart. Details of the statement are recorded in Victorian  Hansard.  The matter has not yet come before the Court and I feel that I should not comment further on the actual writ. 
All that remains to be said now is that since 1975 the company has traded viably and I can do no better than to quote briefly from the last auditor's report by a gentleman from the firm Arthur Anderson and Co., which is a well known firm of chartered accountants. The report stated: 
In my opinion, however, the amount of $1,1 38,729 shown as operating profit for the period ended 28 June 1 977 in the accompanying profit and loss account is a true and fair view of the operating profit for the period. 
That gives a clear indication that the company is viable and that it can trade itself out of its present situation. In addition, I quote from a report of the receivers and managers for the period ended 28 June 1977. It is brief and I read it because it is important. It states: 
The trading activity at the Brooklyn Works, which is now the only one owned and operated by the Society, consisted of the operation of a service works. The killing capacity has been increased over that available during the previous year. The favourable conditions resulted in the generation of a positive cash flow, and subject to a continuation of the past year's trading conditions, the Receivers and Managers believe that the Society is capable of trading out of its difficulties subject to the adoption of a reasonable Scheme of Arrangement providing for the repayment of secured and unsecured creditors. 
-The receivers of the company said it. This legislation is to guarantee a loan of $9m that has been arranged jointly between the Victorian Government, providing $4.5m, and the Commonwealth Government which is also providing $4.5m. The company itself has $5m in liquid funds. Its debts at the moment are $14m. This legislation will enable its 10,000 shareholders about whom I am concerned to get a better return on their shares. Above all it will allow them to retain control of their Co-operative and to continue trading. For those reasons I commend the legislation to the Senate. 
If I have caused confusion,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I ought to try to correct  Senator Walsh's  impression. What I thought I said, and the situation is, that as of now the co-operative owes $14m to various creditors, including a $6. 9m loan with the Australian Industry Development Corporation or whichever Federal body it is. Part of that debt would be discharged with the $5m in cash which the Co-operative has, and the rest would be discharged with the $9m which the Co-operative has by way of borrowings, which are the subject of the guarantee by the State and Federal governments. 
-Could I make a couple of brief comments on the question raised. As I said in my speech during the second reading debate, a supreme court writ has been issued to recover the $1.8m involved. So legal action is in train through the civil courts to recover the money. The question raised here by the Opposition concerns a criminal prosecution of  Mr Smart,  and the Fraud Squad in Victoria has been busy on that for two years. I readily concede that the Fraud Squad has moved very slowly, but that action may still proceed. There are two things I wish to point out. First of all, we are not helping the shareholders by adding this provision to the Bill. The matter is before the Victorian supreme court to stop the sale to Protean (Holdings) Ltd in the interests of the 10,000 shareholders. The supreme court in Victoria has said that when the Federal Government passes legislation and the State Government passes legislation- and the two things are happening simultaneously- it will look at it. But if this legislation goes forward to the supreme court with a direction that nothing is to be done until the State Government appoints a full scale inquiry, it is my guess that the supreme court will allow the sale to Protean to proceed. 
This whole exercise is designed to return the control of the company to the 10,000 farmer shareholders who started it off and who do not want to see their interests defeated by the machinations of a receiver who was appointed to handle the situation within the law. So, with the best will in the world the Opposition, by proposing this amendment, is not helping the people whom the legislation is designed to help. The amendment can only delay the Bill and perhaps stultify the whole action. For that reason I oppose the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. The Minister may recall that on 2 March last I asked him a question relating to graduate employment and whether the Department of Education kept statistics on the number of university graduates who were unable to obtain employment in their chosen profession immediately after graduation. I asked further whether, if there were statistics, the Minister could in general terms indicate the faculties with high rates of graduates unable to find employment in their particular profession. I also asked the Minister whether, if there were no such statistics, he would have inquiries made at the various universities with a view to reviewing the intake in faculties where a significant number of graduates were unable to be employed in their profession after graduation. In his reply the Minister stated that he would obtain these figures. I now ask the Minister whether he is in a position to give the figures to the Senate. 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he has seen a report in yesterday morning's  Daily Telegraph  relating to a statement by  Dr. A  Healey of Wollongong University to the effect that Australian universities have one of the highest drop-out rates in the world; that many students are inadequately prepared for university study; and that a sizable proportion are not even literate, are incapable of making use of the facilities available to them, and are lost from the time they enrol. Does the Minister agree with these comments and, if so, will he indicate what action the Government can take to remedy the situation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is it a fact that under the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Rights Act any pastoral lease purchased by an Aboriginal or Aboriginal group can, on application during the currency of the lease, be changed to Aboriginal land at the expiration of the pastoral lease? If such an application is made, does not the subject land become land held under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act and, in effect, become completely outside the authority of the Northern Territory Government? Has the Minister any information on the number of applications made to date for conversion of such pastoral leases to Aboriginal land? What is the total land area involved in applications to date? What is the position in relation to pastoral leases held by nonAboriginal lessees on the expiration of their leases? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that difficulties are being experienced in extraditing Australian citizens who go to Israel and apply for and are granted Israeli citizenship? I understand that two persons who have been widely mentioned in the media over recent weeks have taken up Israeli nationality under Israel's sacred and virtually automatic law of return. They are Melbourne lawyer Morris Glickman and Igal Makler who was managing director of VIP Insurance, a company at present in serious financial difficulties. Is it a fact that such a grant of Israeli citizenship places the applicant beyond the terms of the extradition treaty? If so, can the Minister say whether any steps can be taken to rectify the position? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of the unfortunate predicament of the minority shareholders in Marrickville Holdings Ltd following the acquisition of 50. 1 per cent of the shares in that company by Southern Packers Pty Ltd in October last? During the six months after the acquisition of the shares Marrickville Holdings Ltd began a price war by discounting margarine by up to 30c a 500 gram pack. The Marrackville group has reported a $3m loss for the last half year, and the share price has fallen from $ 1 . 10 a share to 73c a share. Despite a conditional promise last October that a bid for the rest of the shares would be made by Southern 
Packers Pty Ltd, no offer has yet been forthcoming to the minority shareholders. Can the Minister comment on the adequacy of the existing companies legislation and regulations to protect the rights of minority shareholders in this predicament? Is there any action which the Government can take to protect the interests of the minority shareholders in Marrickville Holdings Ltd in their present dilemma? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and refers to the timely and welcome announcement of the decision of the Minister for Primary Industry relating to underwriting for prescribed products in the dairy industry for the 1978-79 season. Has the Minister any information as to the attitude of the States to the proposal? In particular, has Victoria given any indication whether it is prepared to take up the Minister's offer on a $2 Commonwealth-$ I State basis to give an equivalent of 80c per lb. butter fat, or $ 1 .76 per kilogram, at the farm gate for the 1978-79 season? 
-On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, I present the report of the Committee on the consideration of annual reports referred to the Committee by the Senate. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator TEHAN (Victoria)-by leave-On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare and its  Chairman, Senator Peter  Baume,  I  have the honour to present the Committee's report on the consideration of annual reports referred to it. It will be noted that six of the annual reports listed were presented to the Parliament more than six months, and three were presented more than 12 months, after the end of the period reported on. We are concerned at such delays in the provision of information which is essential to effective parliamentary scrutiny of the operations of Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities, and the Committee will continue to keep watch on the situation. 
The Committee is concerned also at the lack of a comprehensive list of statutory bodies, especially those whose annual reports are required to be submitted to the Parliament. Such a list is expected to become available soon as a result of the work of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. In order to ensure that full and up to date information will be available at all times in the future, the Committee recommends that the Senate institute and maintain a register of statutory bodies in which should be recorded particulars of the authorities whose annual reports are required to be submitted to the Parliament, together with the date of presentation of each report in the Senate, and also particulars of all other statutory bodies and the reporting requirements applying to them. 
The Committee also makes specific comment on two annual reports which were considered to require some follow-up. The Aboriginal Land 
Commissioner, in his report for the year ended 30 June 1977, commented that a number of questions had arisen in regard to the operation of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1 976 and the carrying out of his functions. In response to the Committee's request for further information on this matter, the Commissioner has advised that he intends to elaborate his views in his next report. The Committee has therefore decided to await that report and to keep a watching brief on the matter. 
The Commissioner for Community Relations, in his annual report for 1976-77, referred to varying responses to complaints relating to public administration. On seeking further information, the Committee was informed that, with the exception of the Queensland Police, whose co-operation had been excellent, the Queensland Government had failed to respond to any matter of racial discrimination referred to it by the Commissioner.  His  letter, dated 14 April 1978, is attached as appendix 1 to the Committee's report. As we understand from further communication with the Commissioner's office that developments are expected in a number of these matters, close attention will be paid to the Commissioner's next annual report. The Committee is concerned, however, at the circumstances which have led to the Commissioner's comment, indicating an almost complete lack of response by the Queensland Government, and brings this matter to the attention of the Senate for the consideration of any action which the Senate may desire. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources and relates to the new export incentive grants which were announced by the Minister for Trade and Resources on 13 April last. The statement indicates that the scheme is designed to encourage Australian firms to increase their export sales and more actively to pursue export opportunities. The scheme also covers a wide range of export goods, including manufactured goods, some bulk farm and agricultural products, services provided overseas and the sale of industrial rights and property which are of substantially Australian origin. Can the Minister report on the reaction of exporters to this announcement? Is any evidence available yet to show that the announcement has given a stimulus to export trade generally? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that the Commissioner of Taxation has refused to exempt agricultural motor bikes from sales tax? The relevant item is 13 (1) in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act which reads as follows: 
Machinery, implements and apparatus, n.e.i. (and parts therefor), for use in agricultural industry if, in the opinion of the Commissioner, they are goods of a kind used exclusively, or primarily and principally, in that industry. 
The Commissioner has reviewed sales of Honda All Terrain cycles and has formed the opinion that such cycles are used primarily and principally for other purposes outside the agricultural industry. As these motor cycles are standard equipment on all irrigation farms in northern Victoria and are used exclusively for agricultural purposes, can the Minister say whether some amendment to the Schedule might be considered so that such motor cycles purchased by primary producers and used exclusively for farm work will not attract the 1 5 per cent sales tax? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and resources. Can the Minister confirm a report in yesterday's  Age  to the effect that the Italian Government's energy conglomerate, Ento Nazionale Idrocarburi, wants Australia to help plug a multi-billion dollar gap in its uranium supplies? Its total needs, according to the Italian energy program, are much more than 70,000 tonnes to the year 1990. Its present secured supplies are only 10,000 tonnes. Can the Minister also confirm a further report that a mission from ENI came to Australia for talks with the Government and uranium companies? If so, can the Minister say whether these talks were successful? Is he in a position to give some details of the present position in regard to these negotiations? 
I present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully showeth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic decorations and medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces: 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these decorations and medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services: 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia: 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces: 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your petitioners therefore h umbly pray. 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister confirm a report that the Victorian Government, through its Minister for Agriculture, will not join the Federal Government's dairy underwriting scheme but will go it alone with a separate State-funded scheme? Can the Minister give an estimate of the cost to Victorian taxpayers if that decision is implemented and can he comment on a further report that any such State scheme may be financed in part by a substantial milk price increase to the consumer? 
Is the Minister for Education aware of a report on rural schools prepared by the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations which was presented to the  Deputy  Prime Minister last week? Is the Minister also aware of Press reports based on a national survey conducted by the Australian Teachers Federation alleging major deficiencies in Australian education, with particular respect to school sizes, backlogs in school building programs and a lack of specialised teachers? Will the Minister tell the Senate what action has been taken with respect to rural schools, in particular Victorian rural schools, to rectify any shortcomings that may be evident in this area? Will the Minister also define for the Senate the extent of Commonwealth responsibility for any of these shortcomings? 
-The Senate is debating the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1 978. It is an important piece of legislation which deals with changes to the tax laws. The tax laws, with the passing of the years, have become increasingly complex and almost impossible for the average taxpayer or layman to understand. Before I proceed to speak to this Bill I join issue with  Senator Walsh  on a couple of matters. I say at the outset, for reasons which will become obvious as I speak, that I oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Walsh. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is it the wish of the Senate that I follow that procedure? There being no objection, that procedure will be followed. Is the amendment seconded? 
The amendment is now formally before the Senate.  Senator Lewis  I thought drew a clear distinction- it is not an easy distinction to draw- between avoidance and evasion. Obviously  Senator Walsh  does not quite understand the distinction. There is a distinction which I thought  Senator Lewis  made perfectly clear. I do not want to go over the same ground again. I simply adopt the argument which  Senator Lewis  so ably put to the Senate. 

 Senator Lewis also had something to say about the legislation. I agree with him that there is an increasing tendency in various pieces of legislation to frame sections in such a way that a decision depends on the opinion of the Commissioner of Taxation. This is a vitally important matter when we are dealing with far-reaching pieces of legislation such as those amending the Income Tax Act. The legislation itself does not set out what is power or prohibited. It vests an unreasonable power, in my view, and an increasingly greater power in the hands of the Commissioner to allow or disallow certain matters, and I think that the taxpayer, in some cases, is left without a remedy if he wants to argue against the opinion given. Of course, the taxpayer can go to a board of review and that sort of thing. But if the Commissioner says that he has formed an opinion it is very hard to argue against. 
I speak on this Bill tonight to voice my disappointment at and disapproval of the arbitrary and selective action of the Government in departing from one of the fundamental principles in our legal system that legislation, particularly revenue legislation, should not have a retrospective effect. As has been put by high legal authority, a man cannot be punished or penalised for doing something which is lawful at the time it is done. I make it quite clear that I support the legislation and oppose all the schemes and devices- call them what you like- which are prohibited and caught up with by this legislation. My sole argument is on a general basis of the undesirability of a government, whether we or the people who are now in Opposition form such a government, to put through any sort of legislation which has a retrospective effect. I attack the general vice of retrospectivity rather than the particular vice in this instance. I will show that the Government has selected this scheme, of seven schemes, to which to give retrospective operation. The Government, in effect, has set itself up as the arbiter of morality in this field. 
This Bill deals with some of the schemes or devices- there are others- of which taxpayers, on the advice of their accountants or tax agents, have taken advantage under the existing law, the law as it stands today. Treasurer Crean said in 1974, after the full High Court first pronounced the validity of this law, that he would tie it in with, I think, a capital gains tax, but nothing was done. Similarly, Treasurer Lynch last year made some sort of a statement, which I will quote in detail later, to the same effect. The point I make is that the law, as it stands, permitted these things to be done. 
I will deal with the particular matters in summary form: The first, the so-called Curran scheme; the second, gifts to charities; the third, gifts of a work of art or money to buy a work of art; the fourth, share trading losses; the fifth, dividend stripping; the sixth, reimbursement dividends; and the seventh, abuse of the averaging provisions. Of the seven schemes, the Government has seen fit to apply retrospectivity as from the last Budget date only to the Curran scheme. I have no interest, direct of indirect, in any Curran scheme. I know a number of accountants and lawyers who have acted for people involved with Curran schemes. Fortunately, in addition to my own personal interests, I can say that the legal office with which I am committed and which sends away something like 4,000 income tax returns a year has not had anything to do with Curran schemes. I speak quite objectively in this debate. As this scheme, of seven schemes, is selected as the one to which retrospectivity should apply, we must look at the others. In my view, whilst the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has given reasons for his decisions to apply retrospectivity to the Curran schemes, the scheme involving gifts to charities, with the connivance of charitable institutions, could be regarded as equally immoral and equally reprehensible. 
One may affect the revenue more,  Senator Missen;  that is another matter. I am not quite sure of the honourable senator's interjection. The point I make is that once a government, of whatever persuasion, sets itself up in moral judgment as to the laws of the country and decides to make one of seven schemes retrospective, in my view it is an injustice; it is a departure from and an abandonment of a fundamental legal principal and can lead only to trouble. The Treasurer, in his second reading speech, said: 
It has long been recognised that it is reasonable for taxpayers to so organise their affairs as to minimise liability for taxation. 

 Sir Owen Dixon, possibly the greatest jurist, used those words in various judgments. Plainly, the user of one scheme is no better or no worse than the user of other schemes. Not only did the full High Court confirm the existing legislation as valid in 1974; it was also confirmed as valid in other judgments some 1 8 months ago- again by the High Court. Indeed, the Treasurer, in one of his statements which I have not before me, said that in his view, on the present composition of the High Court, there was no possibility of it declaring the Curran scheme illegal under the existing law; hence the need for an amendment. We are not arguing about the need for amendment here. 
A great deal of loose comment has been made in regard to members of the accountancy profession and tax agents. They are well able to look after themselves. If  Senator Walsh  were in the chamber I would remind him that there are bad apples in every barrel. Just because a small number of unscrupulous accountants and tax agents seeks to advertise tax avoidance schemes in the  Australian Financial Review  all members of the same race should not be condemned. I refer to the parable in the biblical days of the Pharisee and the publican. In those days the publican was the tax gatherer, a man despised and spurned. As we listen to various people in the Senate and in the other place we note that the wheel has turned completely. Anyone who has anything to do with advising people on their rights under the existing law is said to be a bad man and someone with whom people should not have anything to do. I cannot buy that argument. I think that if the law of the land says certain things an adviser is legitimately entitled to tell his client or his taxpayer customer that that is what the law says. The December 1977 issue of the  Australian Law Journal  shows that attitudes to tax compliance differ widely.  Sir Harold  Wilson- obviously  Senator Walsh  is a disciple of his- speaking in 1959 described practitioners in the field as 'the parasitical class of tax avoidance experts with which the city is infested'. I think  Senator Walsh  said something like that. 
I am putting both sides for  Senator Georges'  benefit. Lord Atkin in 1936 in a House of Lords decision said: 
It has to be recognised that the subject whether poor and humble or wealthy and noble has the legal right so to dispose of his capital and income as to attract upon himself the least amount of tax. 

 Sir Harold Wilson said the opposite. This statement as to the law has been recently approved by the Chief Justice of the High Court in the 1 977 case of Slutzkin v. the Commissioner of Taxation. I cite a further judgment, that of Lord Sumner in Levene v. the Commissioner of Inland Revenue, a 1928 House of Lords decision, in which Lord Sumner said: 
It is trite law that  His  Majesty's subjects are free, if they care, to make their own arrangements, so that their cases may fall outside the scope of the taxing Acts. They incur no legal penalties and, strictly speaking, no moral censure if, having considered the lines drawn by the legislature for the imposition of taxes, they make it their business to walk outside them. 
In my view if it were the Government's intention to close the gap in respect of Curran schemes as from the date of the last Budget the Treasurer should have said so specifically at that time and in clear and unmistakable terms, instead of making a vague statement which made no mention of Curran cases or of a retrospective date. The Treasurer stated: 
Many of the arrangements that taxpayers are being induced to enter into are highly artificial and contrived, but they are causing substantial amounts of revenue to be either lost altogether or deferred for considerable periods of time. The Government takes a serious view of these developments and proposes in these Budget sittings to bring forward amendments to combat these abuses of the provisions of the tax laws. 
He made no mention specifically of the Curran schemes. Some of the newspaper comments at the time are pertinent in relation to the fundamental principle which I am endeavouring to uphold in this speech. The  Canberra Times  stated: 
The great danger in making retrospective laws is that of using a lame administrative device to enforce a political decision to cover up inexcusable administrative neglect or to give a semblance of legitimacy to political decisions that have none at all. 
The  Sydney Morning Herald  expressed its view against retrospective laws in the following terms: 
They are bad because they impair the right of the individual to have confidence in the certainty and predictability of the law as it stands when he makes a transaction or a decision. 
This sort of retrospectivity introduces a new dimension; that is, that a law can be amended retrospectively. The Government, by proceeding with this legislation, in this instance has created a truly dangerous precedent which can cause uncertainty to taxpayers and their advisers in considering their options under the tax laws. It is true that the present Treasurer has indicated that henceforth when he announces reforms in this field he will state at the time of the announcement the date from which any such amendment to the law will operate. He has done that in relation to at least two areas of activity which he has announced are to cease. He has stated that legislation will be introduced to operate from a certain date. 
-All right, but at least it gives certainty to law. My argument with this legislation is that it is retrospective without notice. I think the Treasurer's recent announcements are a vast improvement on the situation. I do not think anyone advising people as to their rights will object to a government stating, when it has the majority that this Government has in both Houses, that legislation will be introduced and be operative from a certain date which is specifies. I do not quarrel with that. After all, if the Government is to set itself up as an arbiter as to the morality or otherwise of a particular law or laws, it can be argued that some or all of those other six matters covered by the legislation should be retrospective. I have already mentioned gifts to charities, family trusts and other fairly well known devices by which the individual taxpayer can minimise the amount of contribution he has to make to revenue. Those matters might also be considered. 
The Australian Labor Party by its amendment is suggesting that all the matters in this Bill should be made retrospective- the whole seven of them-from 1 July 1977. That is the path down which I certainly do not feel the Government ought to go. The Liberal Government is committed by its platform against this sort of legislation. Labor's amendment illustrates the dangers of its policies and shows how far our socialist friends on the other side of the chamber would be prepared to go if they get back into power. In 1974 Treasurer Crean mentioned capital gains tax. It was mentioned here last week in regard to the desirable legislation abolishing probate duty between spouse and spouse, parent and child and grandparent and grandchild et cetera. That is an indication of where the Opposition is going. I thought that at least the people on this side of the chamber would not embark on legislation which creates a dangerous precedent. I support the legislation in principle, but I oppose that provision which makes one section of it retrospective. 
-The Minister for Social Security will be aware of the great devastation caused by the extensive flooding in the Gippsland area in Victoria in recent days. Can the Minister give some indication of the assistance which will be available by way of social service and other benefits from the Commonwealth Government to those who have suffered hardship and loss by reason of the flooding? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware of a recent survey by P. A. Consultants Pty Ltd, the preliminary findings of which show that 94. J per  cent of  Australians surveyed said that they would rather own a home than rent one? Can the Minister say whether the present rate of building is sufficient to meet the demands by potential home owners and whether the available funding by governments, both Commonwealth and State, and private financial institutions is adequate to meet the demand? 
Although the hour is late and everyone wants to get home, I must rise to speak briefly on this Bill which deals with one of the very important primary industries in Australia. We all realised, even before we heard from  Senator Walsh,  that the dairy industry has had a very troubled and chequered existence over recent times. Of course, its circumstances were not improved during the three years of the Labor Government. 
I wish to pay tribute to the work of the Minster for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He shows great patience and sympathetic understanding in his approach to the very complex problems which arise in this industry. I think it is conceded by  Senator Walsh  that there are grave problems in the industry because of the various competing State interests. One of the great problems with marketing schemes such as are necessary in this particular industry is that they require give and take between the various States and the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth provides the funds and there must be some sort of agreement between the States if we are to have a bit of order instead of chaos in the industry. The Commonwealth Government is virtually an arbitrator or a controller. 
The task of the Minister for Primary Industry has been to reconcile the conflicting interests between the various States in this complex area. The States naturally find it difficult to see beyond their boundaries in this situation. I remind  Senator Walsh  that this industry would have completely collapsed had it not been for the intervention of the Federal Government in the form of underwriting some 3 years ago. I think that is conceded by everyone in the industry. Let us be fair and concede that the support the Commonwealth has given has been vital to the survival of the industry. Not only has support been vital but also it has been very necessary to enable the industry to keep afloat. The Government has tried to say that if the dairy industry is to prosper it must function on a national basis. The problems created by section 92 of the Constitution, which have been referred to, raise very great difficulties in the implementation of the proposal. The imposition of the levy is an attempt to give the Commonwealth some control in stabilising the industry. This has been happening for the last  Vh  years and will continue for the next 12 months under this legislation. 
I remind  Senator Walsh  that his fears in respect of clause 5 of the Bill are somewhat unfounded because I think a similar scheme has been approved by the High Court and it has been operating in another primary industry. I have forgotten which industry that is. But there is a precedent for this legislation. 

 - Senator Walsh raised the point; I am just answering it. At this hour of the night I am not sure which industry it is. I do not intend to waste the time of the Senate by looking it up. However, the precedent is there. The Minister may know and tell us when he replies. I do not want to go back to the origins of the problems of the industry which were compounded by the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community. Most of our export trade went to Britain. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  are overseas at the moment making representations in relation to not only this primary industry but also various other industries which are in trouble because of Britain's entry into the Community. 
He is trying to do something.  Senator McLaren  should realise that the problems being faced by primary industry and caused by Britain's entry into the EEC are still with us. Unless we grapple with these problems and solve them not only will the dairy industry be greatly depressed but also so will other primary industries. With the assurance of a guaranteed minimum price of 50c per lb when we came into office, the industry was able to continue with some confidence. In the 1976-77 production season this price was increased from 50c to 60c per lb and finally to 65c per lb. With improved marketing conditions the cost to the Government of underwriting was not very great. 
Stage 1 of the Crawford report, which was the report commissioned by the Government after the Industries Assistance Commission report was found to be unacceptable, came into operation by legislation in the 1977-78 season. It introduced the system of compulsory equalisation and increased the level of underwriting from 65c per lb to the current level of 75c per lb. Stage 2 of the Crawford proposals required the introduction of a national aggregate entitlement and a market share entitlement for each dairy farmer. The second stage envisaged by the Crawford report foundered because the States failed to agree to any reasonable suggestion which would cover the situation. This legislation has been brought forward as an alternative to what was originally intended. The failure of the States to agree to stage 2 occurred as far back as January at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. Despite the efforts of the Minister for Primary Industry to obtain some solution and agreement between the States it was obvious after that meeting that the stage 2 proposal of the Crawford report would not get off the ground. 
Under this particular scheme, in the legislation there is a Commonwealth guarantee of approximately 75c per lb at the farm gate for all the cheese that can be produced and for wholemilk powder. In the case of butter there is a 96,000-tonne restriction on the level of underwriting. This does not mean that production is restricted to that figure; it simply means that any production over and above that figure will be at risk in that what will be received by the manufacturer will be the assessed average export price, and that will be considerably lower than the price at which the 96,000 tonnes of butter will sell. This figure of 96,000 tonnes for butter was recommended by the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation. There will be an incentive to factories to diversify. Indeed, most of the big dairy companies in Australia, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania where the main manufacturing sections of the industry are located, have diversified. What is true in secondary industry today is true in primary industry. Any farmer who puts all his eggs in one basket today is not facing the facts of life, because invariably if one industry is going bad the others are not too bad. If a farmer has two or three different types of primary production on his property he has a better chance of survival. This is also the case in the manufacturing industry. 
The Minister has offered an underwriting of 80c per lb butterfat provided that the States agree to a Commonwealth and States basis of $2 for $1 on the complete level of underwriting. Although the Minister has had no written advice, my understanding is that more than one State, as  Senator Walsh  has said, has indicated that it will not come into the scheme with the Commonwealth. 
It is important to remember that, at the 75c level, the Commonwealth's scheme can stand entirely on its own feet without complementary State legislation, and the levy legislation will operate to enforce the underwriting limit at a figure of 96,000 tonnes for butter. So there is a mechanism in the legislation. Sub-clause (7) of clause 5, referred to by  Senator Walsh,  is designed to make the legislation constitutional. It is unlikely, 
I suggest, that it would be challenged, but, if it is, the High Court will then have to determine it. For governments to stand out of the scheme would be regrettable. It is essential, if we are to have a comprehensive marketing scheme, that all States come in and co-operate. If my own State of Victoria goes it alone, as has been suggested, it may well cost the Victorian taxpayers more and customers may well pay a higher price for retail milk. I am not positively stating that that will follow. It is at least a possibility. 
The Victorian Dairy Industry Authority, which is a State authority which markets liquid milk in Victoria, may well conflict to some degree with the Australian Dairy Corporation which has Commonwealth statutory powers, both for the export of manufactured dairy products and for the promotion and marketing of manufactured dairy products in Australia. These are dangers which are at least potential if not actual if the States stand out of the Federal scheme. Liquid milk is outside the Federal proposal and to that extent the legislation favours the States whose major production is the liquid milk field because they can carry on and produce as much liquid milk as they can, and there is always a ready market in those States for it. 
The scheme is to operate for one year only and it may well be that after its year of operation the industry, both on the primary side and on the manufacturing side, will realise the advantages of a comprehensive Commonwealth scheme covering all milk produced, including liquid milk. It is quite certain, in my view, that the future of the industry in the long term rests fairly and squarely on agreement between the States on a completely comprehensive and long-term marketing scheme covering all sections of the industry. It is to be hoped that, at the end of 12 months' operation of the legislation, this ideal will be realised. In conclusion, I pay a further tribute to the Minister for his patience and for producing what is, in the opinion of the industry itself, the best possible alternative, having regard to the failure of the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation to agree to the comprehensive national entitlement scheme which was envisaged by the Crawford report in January last. 

 Senator WALSH (Western Australia)-by leave- I move: 
At end of motion, add ' , but the Senate calls upon the Minister for Primary Industry to explain how quantitative limits on production eligible for underwriting can be imposed without the co-operation of the States'. 
-At this late hour I crave the indulgence of the Senate to make a few comments and to thank you,  Mr President,  the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  and others for their kind remarks. I have been here for a shorter period than some of my more illustrious colleagues who are retiring from the Senate on 30 June. But I would not be honest- and I always try to be honest, as Ian Wood says- if I did not say that there is a certain feeling of regret and nostalgia when the time comes for one to leave this place. I have enjoyed my term in the Senate. It has been a great experience for me, albeit for only one term, and I thank the electors of Victoria for giving me the opportunity to be here even for such a brief time. It has been said that one of the hallmarks of a successful politician is that he makes some enemies. If that is the litmus test, I suppose I must believe that I have failed, because while I like to think that I have made many friends in this place, so far as 1 am aware, I leave it with no enemies. 
I should like to endorse what has been said about the Committee work in the Senate. Coming here as I did less than three years ago, I thought I knew a bit about constitutional history and the set-up of the Australian Constitution. But in my short period in the Senate I have been amazed to see how effective the committee system is in the work of the Senate. Indeed, I do not think I would be putting it on too high a plane if I gave it equal importance with what happens in the chamber itself. Perhaps in the long term and in the mechanism of the Australian Constitution, it may well be a vital factor because a bipartisan approach is involved whereby both sides come together to discuss what are very important matters of reference from the chamber. I think you get a balanced, objective view with both sides working together instead of, as inevitably happens in this place, as in a law court, an adversary situation. I make that comment because I suppose those people who have been here for a long time and who have grown up with the Committee system do not realise its value. Indeed, I think some steps ought to be taken to publicise the work ofthe Senate committees to the electorate at large. 
I do not wish to say very much more. I have enjoyed my work on committees. You were kind enough,  Mr Leader,  to mention our common affinity as country lawyers. I suppose one of the lighter experiences I enjoyed was to go to lunch at the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee and listen to two other lawyers-  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Wheeldon-  exchanging repartee, embellished by comments from  Senator Button  and  Senator Missen.  That was a delightful experience. 
May I just thank everyone on both sides ofthe chamber for their patience and tolerance. May I also say a particular word to the loyal members of my own party, and that includes them all. Tom Drake-Brockman made kind reference to that. If I may say so, I think we are a party which places great importance on loyality to leadership and loyality to the Government or to the Opposition as the case may be in the Parliament of which we are a pan. I thank also the members of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. I like to feel- in fact I know that this is the casethat I have established a very good working relationship with them. I think if you are in coalition, one of the first things is to do your utmost to make it work. In my experience the coalition has worked well in the three years I have been here. I thank my friends in the Opposition for the opportunity of being here with them. I also thank the clerks of the Parliament, the staff of the Parliament and all those people who work to make this place the wonderful place it is. In conclusion, I trust that my fellow senators, both those retiring and continuing, will enjoy good health and happiness for the rest of their days. 
Question resolved in the  affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 2.24 a.m., Saturday 
