I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by pointing out that in the district of Geraldton in Western Australia several separate groups have raised many thousands of dollars for the purpose of housing old people. My question to the Minister is: Will the previous $4 for $1 matching grants be restored? If so, when? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It is the policy of this Government to establish a rural bank to provide long term finance for primary producers. Has the Minister considered this matter in any detail yet? If so, will he give consideration to the situation in the United States of America and West Germany where, I understand, rural banks are run on cooperative lines and managed by the users of this facility? 

 - Mr President, I rise to support the motion. Firstly,  Sir, let  me add my congratulations to those of the honourable senators who have spoken before me on your election to the high office that you now hold. The qualities of kindness, courtesy and sincerity were at once obvious to me. If to those qualities can be added the others expressed to me by your colleagues in this place and those who know you well in South Australia, it can only enhance the high reputation this House has with the people of Australia. I look forward to serving under your stewardship for many years.  Senator Drake-Brockman  is particularly well known and respected in country areas of Western Australia. That he should be elected  Chairman  of Committees only reinforces my admiration for him. Senators Knight, Kilgariff, Messner, Tehan, Archer and Ryan have demonstrated in their maiden speeches an expert knowledge in their respective fields and an eloquence that can only add to the standard of debate and decision- making in this place. 
It seems obvious to me that if I try to apply myself to all of the matters that come before the Senate I will be of little value to anyone. While I hope to develop interests in many other areas, agriculture is the only field in which I can pretend to have any particular knowledge. I want to draw the attention of the Senate tonight to 2 areas of particular importance to Western Australia Commonwealth-State relations and rural affairs. I intend to make one or two general comments about the former subject and to devote the balance of my time to the latter. 
Western Australia is a long way from Canberra in more than just a geographical sense. Many Western Australian problems are Australian problems, but many also are local and can best be handled locally. While such fields as defence, foreign affairs and some areas of national resources and trade are logically handled nationally, I feel that the Commonwealth should reduce its interest in such fields as health, housing, education and the environment. It has been argued, firstly, that the States have little expertise and, secondly, that they have little interest in these matters, but if the State and local governments were given more independence in raising and spending their own revenue the voters in each of those 2 important areas of government would soon make sure that they were being well served. When we talk about returning government to the people we should not be thinking about just returning responsibility to the States. The States also have an obligation to give more autonomy to local government. Many thousands of men and women throughout Australia give one and sometimes more days a week to local government. As they are closer to the people they receive most of the criticism; yet in many cases they are merely rubber stamps for State or Federal authorities. 
All senators from Western Australia have their offices in one building in Penh. While this has communication advantages and Perth is the logical place from which to travel to any part of our huge State, we have little contact with West 
AustraliansMembersoftheHouseofRepresentatives  are regularly sought out by their constituents, but this is not generally the case with senators. As an experiment, I intend to move my office to Geraldton towards the end of this year. Geraldton is a regional centre some 500 kilometres north of Perth and, while it is still 2250 kilometres south of the northern extremity of the State, it does service a large, highly productive agricultural, fishing and mining area. It is in the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which is the largest in the world and which embraces nine-tenths of the State. Although its new Federal member, Mick Cotter, has boundless energy, it is physically impossible for him to service his electorate as thoroughly as a metropolitan electorate can be serviced. I will therefore be in an area I know and will give more people access to a Federal parliamentarian. There will be difficulties. These have been pointed out to me. But some of my Senate colleagues from Queensland have established regional offices, which must result in that State being better represented. 
The Western Australian Government is well advanced in carrying out an exercise that could be the blueprint for other States. Seven regional offices of the State Government are being established in the Kimberley, Pilbara, Kalgoorlie, Albany, Bunbury, Geraldton and GascoyneMurchison areas. They will be manned by senior public servants who will have the authority to make decisions and, more importantly, will be on the spot and therefore will appreciate the local problems and aspirations. I will follow with interest the development of our federalism policy. I am encouraged by the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is taking such an active interest in this area. 
Western Australia produces one-third of Australia's grain and one-fifth of her wool. The State supplies one-tenth of our meat exports and almost half of the exported live animals. It is developing what could be a valuable overseas market for lupin seed and, while it is a net importer of butter and cheese, is self-sufficient in whole milk. Fruit and timber are two of many other areas of rural production important to Western Australia. Many rural producers enjoy a reasonable standard of living, but the fact that they are not keeping pace with the other sections of the community can best be illustrated by looking at the drift of population. In the 5 years to 1971 the number of people working on farms declined by 13 per cent, while our total population increased by about 6 per cent. During the same 5 years the number of rural holdings fell by 8 per cent. So, although the volume and the value of rural production are increasing steadily, costs are increasing to such a degree that many are giving up the fight. The fact that few young people are attracted to the land can be illustrated by my saying that I understand that the average age of farmers is about 55 years. 
Many West Australians rely on rural production for a large part of their income. Waterside workers, country storekeepers, State railway workers and employees of machinery manufacturers should be just as concerned for the future of farming as the farmers themselves. While it is recognised by most that farmers are disadvantaged by the vagaries of weather and overseas markets, it is not so apparent that manufacturers and their agents who supply the tractors, fencing material, sheds and grain handling equipment have greater fluctuations of income than do the farmers. Many of the agents and manufacturers selling farm machinery were seriously affected during the years of wheat quotas, whereas now those selling large tractors, harvesters and seeding machinery cannot obtain sufficient stocks to satisfy the demand. 
While a diminishing number of Australians are actively engaged in rural production, all Australians are affected by the prosperity of farmers. The same probably could be said of other industries, but of few, if any, to the same degree. That the income of primary producers is extremely unstable was clearly illustrated in the Green Paper on Rural Policy in Australia of May 1974 in which each year's income during the period between 1966-67 and 1970-71 was shown as a percentage of the one following it. In every case over 40 per cent of our primary producers had incomes that varied by more than 50 per cent when compared with the year following. When the same calculations were made for other business operators over the same period it was found that only 20 per cent of them had income variations of 50 per cent. Naturally the incomes of wage and salary earners are much more stable. 
The answer would seem to be for the farmers to save money in good years. But the Taxation Office, particularly through the imposition of provisional tax, takes care of that. Many farmers are encouraged to undertake irrational investment in high income years to avoid paying taxation. A more realistic solution would seem to be some form of market control. But while wheat stabilisation and the reserve price for wool are generally popular with farmers, if further marketing plans are adopted they should not cloud the lines of communication between producer and consumer. Producers must be in a position to respond immediately to changes in market requirements and this can be difficult if a guaranteed price disguises changes in world demand. This comment applies more to products like grain that can sometimes be changed from one type of production to another in a year than, say, to beef that cannot. 
I am an advocate of free marketing of rural products but I accept that in some industries some controls are needed. However, I have found that generally farmers who in theory support private enterprise are imposing on themselves unbelievable controls and restrictions. As with any business, each area of production has its good and its bad times. Farmers are believers in free marketing when prices are high but when prices fall we blame the marketing system. We forget to look at freight rates, over-production, overseas competition, changes in consumer demand or expensive handling and processing methods. We say to our politicians: 'Look, our prices are low. What are you going to do about improving the marketing system?' What we really mean is that we want a subsidy, but 'subsidy' is a dirty word. So the Government legislates to provide a marketing board and gives the producers a majority on the board. 
It sometimes gives acquisition powers over the whole area of production. It offers loan finance to the board and naturally wants some controls in exchange. To protect existing producers and thereby secure for themselves a permanent seat on the board, board members make it difficult for potential new producers to enter the field. To protect the smaller producers who are in the majority and who have the greatest voting strength to elect board members, production is sometimes limited to prevent the efficient farmer from getting too big. The board has no competition; so the producer and the government cannot know whether it is efficient. It writes its own annual reports in glowing terms anyway. The government is then relieved of much of its responsibilities in that area. 

 Mr President, you can see that much of the pressure for socialised rural industries comes from the farmers themselves. The pressures are certainly less when returns are high. But each industry has its turn of low prices and history shows us that once a marketing board is established it is almost never abolished. A socialist government only needs to create, a situation of hardship for the producer, particularly through high rates of inflation- it can also create hardship by reducing credit, increasing taxation or by upsetting our trading partners- and the farmer himself does the rest. Rather than a proliferation of these marketing boards, I would like to see more support given to co-operative marketing of rural products. 
I believe that the problem of income instability can be reduced by adopting 2 of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commissionfirstly, that of removing the upper limit of $16,000 on tax averaging and, secondly, by the provision of income equalisation deposits. Through income equalisation deposits a farmer could invest money at the short term bond rate of interest in a year of high income and only pay tax on that investment in the year of withdrawal. Neither scheme would cost the Treasury anything other than a small amount of forgone taxation. I will do my utmost to see that these policies are adopted as soon as possible. 
The area of tariff protection is of vital concern to the primary industries, as it also is to the mining industry. The cost to rural producers of tariff protection to manufacturing industries is extremely high and is increasing. In fact, although the figures are difficult to calculate, it has not been seriously questioned that in the year 1973-74 the net cost of tariffs to the wool, meat and grain industries was $465m or an average of well over $2,000 per year per producer. At the same time, manufacturing industries enjoyed a subsidy equivalent in the form of tariff protection of $3,000m. This latter figure is taken from the Industries Assistance Commission 1973-74 annual report. While it has been argued that these industries need protection to create employment, the position becomes ridiculous when one realises that the cost of protection in the motor vehicle industry is of the order of $4,000 per person employed per year, for organic industrial chemicals over $6,500, for iron and basic steel products $3,000, and for many industries in excess of the average wage levels being paid. 
It is amazing that many high cost and inefficient industries have avoided community criticism whereas the rural export industries, which are among Australia's only internationally competitive industries, are condemned for receiving so-called unjustified handouts. One reason is that the costs of tariffs are never brought to account in Budgets, unlike rural assistance which is. The Hayden Budget allocated $89. 5m assistance to the wool, meat and grain industries. Of course, this was before the reinstatement of the superphosphate bounty. Of that $89.5m, $8 1.3m or 90 per cent was in the form of loans. So governments are not overly generous to the rural industries, most of which are efficient and highly competitive on the world markets while they give massive support to other industries. I suggest ii is time Australia had a lock at where her resources should best be allocated. 
I strongly support the Australian Labor Party initiative in creating the Industries Assistance Commission. With a steadily reducing population in country areas, rural political representation is diminishing. Instead of emotion, we now have available to us well researched information based on consideration for the national interest and compiled by an independent authority to help us in our decision-making. Inflation is probably the most pressing problem in rural areas because income is largely fixed by highly competitive world markets and the escalating costs cannot be passed on. I am pleased that our Government has as its first priority the bringing of inflation under control. 
Let me close my speech on a different note. Many honourable senators from both sides of the House have expressed and have demonstrated their desire to make my initiation into this place as comfortable as possible. For this I thank them. It is a difficult transition from being a farmer on one side of Australia to being a politician on the other. Finally, I say to honourable senators that I will spare no effort to serve the interests of Western Australia in this Federal Parliament. It is inevitable that I will make mistakes. But they will be mistakes caused not from any lack of respect for the usages and the customs of the Senate, but from an excess of enthusiasm in my endeavour to justify the awesome responsibilities placed in me.  Mr President,  I have pleasure in supporting the motion. 

 - Mr President, at the outset I would like to declare an interest in this matter. I am a director of a co-operative company in Western Australia that exports a lot of meat. Its name is the West Australian Farmers Co-operative. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to address myself to this debate. I would like to make a few comments about the rather incredible debating ability of our opponents. I enjoyed  Senator O  'Byrne's comments, although they did not really relate to the subject. However, I did enjoy them; they were entertaining. I agree with one of the points  Senator Primmer  made quite strongly in relation to the dual inspection of meat. I agree with him that we should do what we can to achieve a single meat inspection. 

 Senator McLaren, who has just completed his rather interesting discourse ranging over most subjects remotely connected with rural affairs apart from the subject that is being debated tonight, spoke about stock firms and criticised their very expensive methods of charging interest. I should inform him that it is an extremely competitive business and several firms have gone broke recently.  Senator McLaren  referred to the smoke screen put up by the National Country Party. It is rather interesting that the same smoke screen, if it is one, is being created by the Industries Assistance Commission because all that this Government is doing is carrying out the recommendations of that organisation. The honourable senator said that neither he nor the Minister for Agriculture in his State were able to understand why the beef producers in South Australia are not taking up the excess money that is available. For his information, those people cannot afford to borrow any more money. 
-They just cannot afford to borrow any more money. They have reached the limit of their resources and money at any price is just beyond them. I hope that the honourable senator, who is so concerned about the downtrodden masses, will appreciate the point I have made. He made an interesting comparison when he tried to relate the use of superphosphate to the necessity to bring in wheat quotas. That is the most remarkable hypothesis I have ever heard in my life and one that it would be interesting to go into a little more deeply. 

 Senator Walsh made some interesting points.  His  contribution to the debate started and finished with a rather vitriolic attack on the National Country Party. I am sure that the representatives of that party can defend themselves very well, and have done so.  Senator Walsh  seems to spend most of his time making vitriolic attacks which do not really contribute to the debate. He spoke about the meat price index in relation to devaluation and claimed that that was an absolute assertion that the devaluation had no effect on meat prices. He tried to relate that argument to the Bill under discussion. What he does not realise is that meat prices just happened to go down over that period and the devaluation was absorbed by the reduction in meat prices. 
The main thrust of his argument, when he did get around to debating the Bill, was that the producers would not get the benefit of this reduction. I will demonstrate shortly that not only will they benefit but I strongly suspect that they will get more than just the value of this reduction in charges. One of the other points made by  Senator 
Walsh related to the changing of priorities recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. He accused this Government of changing the priorities set out in the Commission's report. That is rather an interesting observation when one remembers that the Labor Government chose to ignore completely the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission when they had anything to do with primary production. 
This Bill is a simple one. It seeks to suspend the charges that were allocated under the Meat Export Charges Act 1973, which came into effect in November of that year. The charges imposed were 1 cent a pound on exported meat and edible offals to recoup the meat export inspection costs, and an additional amount of 0.6c a pound on exported beef and veal to finance the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication program. The Bill sets out to suspend both of those charges. It is intended by the Government to impose a slaughter charge of $1 a head to finance the brucellosis and tuberculosis program. It is expected that it will bring in about the same amount of money as the 0.6 per lb charge which has applied hitherto. I think honourable senators on both sides of the House agree that the beef industry is in trouble. 
We do not pretend that this Bill will solve all the problems. There are many other initiatives that the Government will take, and is taking, that will go a long way towards helping the beef producers. It is obvious that this legislation will provide some help quickly. To put things in perspective, I should like to say tht in the financial year 1973-74 Australia produced almost 2 million tons of meat, the export portion of which was worth $797m. We are not talking about a small industry. The pastoral industry employs some 30 000 people. There are 40 000 people employed in the meat processing side, and 5 000 people employed in the service industries connected to it. In total, the meat industry employs almost as many people as are employed in the motor industry in Australia. Governments of all persuasions have been generous to the employees in the motor vehicle industry, as was demonstrated in an Industries Assistance Commission report in which it was stated that the tariff protection equivalent that everybody in the motor industry receives is about $4,000 per person per year. The measures that we are proposing here fall a long way short of that figure. 
It was claimed by  Senator Walsh  that the benefit of this Bill will not go to the producers. I claim that it will. In fact I go beyond that. I claim that there will be a flow-on effect. I will try to explain it. Under the present regulations a man who buys a beast in a saleyard does not know whether part of it will be exported. To be on the safe side, almost invariably the extra cost is put on the cost of the beef. This reduces that value that he is prepared to pay in the saleyard. With this reduction in costs that he will have to meet he will be able to know exactly what he will have to pay for his beast. This will have a flow-on effect. In fact, some friends of mine say that in the saleyards recently the cattle prices have firmed in response to the announcements made by this Government. One thing that will reduce the effect to the primary producers is the tremendous 6.4 per cent wage rise. If we were not to have the benefit provided for in this legislation, of course, it would be worse. 
I should like to reiterate that the primary producers of Australia place a great deal of faith in the Industries Assistance Commission. It is encouraging that this Government is supporting the efforts of the IAC. It is interesting to note that the Labor Party supports the IAC when it chooses to. When in government it did nothing to implement the recommendations of the IAC in relation to the rural industries. The Commission has considered a multitude of issues during the last 3 years, but as far as I know, none of these recommendations was implemented. The grower organisations of Australia spend many thousands of dollars in submitting recommendations and submissions to the IAC. They can ill afford those thousands of dollars. I should like to say to those organisations that this Government will do its best to see that the recommendations put forward by the Commission are implemented. I sincerely support the Bill. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the present reserve price for wool of 250c a kilogram for 21 micron clean is below the cost of production for many producers? Is he aware that many producers would favour greatly increasing their contribution to the Australian Wool Corporation in return for a reserve price of 300c a kilogram? Does the Minister know whether this matter is being considered by the Minister for Primary Industry? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the fact that the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission are now expected to be financially self-sufficient and to contribute to their own capital expansion, what safeguards can the Minister give that the interests of families living in remote areas which would be patently unprofitable to service are being protected? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, thank you ibr the opportunity to contribute to this debate. The Senate is debating the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill 1976 which seeks to amend the Phosphate Fertilizers Act 1963-71. The purpose of the Bill is to re-introduce the phosphate fertiliser bounty of $11.81 a tonne until 30 June 1977. As has been explained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  this is an interim measure to give the Government an opportunity to consider the whole area of assistance to primary producers. It is interesting to look at the actions of the previous Government with regard to the superphosphate bounty. On 15 February 1974, the then Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  announced that the bounty would be terminated from 31 December 1974. The Government held to that decision in spite of an increase in the superphosphate price of 63 per cent during 1974, a reduction of 30 per cent in wool prices, an 8 per cent reduction in wheat prices and a 50 per cent fall in beef prices. Incidentally, these figures are taken from the Industries Assistance Commission's interim report on superphosphate dated 31 July 1975. This also happened during quite a lavish spending spree by the previous Government on what were considered then to be worthless projects. 
This was bad enough. But the actions of that Government with regard to the bounty were even more irrational in 1975. On 29 January 1975  Senator Wriedt,  the then Minister for Agriculture, announced that a reference had been sent to the Industries Assistance Commission to inquire into whether the Government should provide assistance to users of superphosphate. I will read the terms of reference: 
I, Lionel Frost Bowen, Special Minister of State 
Refer the following matter to the Industries Assistance Commission for inquiry and report in accordance with section 23 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973 whether, to give effect to to the objectives in section 22 ( 1 ) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, the Australian Government should provide assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers, and if so 
what should be the rate and duration of such assistance, and 
what should be the basis of any payment including considerations of the end use, the point of payment, the phosphate content and the consequences of the amount of assistance being limited to a maximum tonnage. 
Specify 31 July 1976 - 
This is significant. I repeat: 
Specify 31 July 1976 as the date by which the Commission is to report on the matters described in paragraph 1 of this reference. 
Request the Commission to provide an interim report, by the 31 July 1975, on whether in the present circumstances interim assistance should be provided for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers pending receipt of the Commission's Report on this reference. 
That reference is dated 29 January 1975. For the moment we will assume that it was a genuine reference and not one that was made for purely political purposes. The Industries Assistance Commission produced an interim report on 3 1 July 1975 which contained a dissenting opinion by one of the Associate Commissioners,  Mr Robinson.  I quote a relevant paragraph from the majority report: 
Recommendations 
The Industries Assistance Commission recommends that, pending completion of its inquiry on the Minister's reference and the government's consideration of the full report on that reference, the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers be assisted by restoration of the Bounty previously payable under the provisions of the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Act 1963-71. 
The Commission draws attention to its comments that this recommendation should not be taken as being indicative of its attitude to continuing assistance in the longer term, and to its comments on retrospectivity and a tonnage limitation. 
Attention is also drawn to the dissent of  Mr Robinson,  on the question of interim assistance expressed in pages 5 to 9 of this interim report. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, in the remaining months the Government made no attempt to act on the advice of the IAC in the face of an even more rapidly deteriorating situation, particularly in regard to costs. Honourable senators can judge for themselves whether the previous Government was genuine when it made that reference to the IAC in January 1975. 
Honourable senators may think it strange that a Government chooses to act contrary to the advice it receives from an organisation it established. Yet this has been the remarkable history of the former Government in relation to the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations that dealt with rural matters. In May 1975 a report was released regarding new land farmers in Western Australia. In April 1975 there was a report on tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication. In June 1975 there was a report on rural income fluctuations and on 30 July 1975 there was an interim report on the superphosphate bounty. In none of these matters did the Government of the day do anything but ignore or act contrary to the recommendations contained in the reports. 
I wish to deal with some of the issues raised by the Opposition in this debate. I would like to congratulate  Senator Gietzelt  on his elevation to the front bench and on his handling of the first Bill in his shadow portfolio of agriculture. He showed quite a considerable lack of knowledge of agriculture, but I guess we cannot expect everything. He said during the course of the debate that the cost of this subsidy cannot be justified. Why did his Government refer this matter to the IAC after it had made the decision to discontinue the bounty if in its opinion the cost could not be justified?  Senator Gietzelt  made the rather astounding point that superphosphate usage was reduced in 1975. It is rather interesting that farmers in Australia had almost 12 months warning that this bounty was to be removed. Is it any wonder that they bought vast quantities of superphosphate immediately prior to the end of 1974. This is why the purchases of superphosphate in 1975 were so much less. I would also like to point out to honourable senators opposite that this bounty was an election issue. It was referred to far and wide all over Australia. We all know the results of that election. 
Honourable senators opposite also make great play of the fact that some users of superphosphate use large quantities of the fertilizer. Of course there are big users of superphosphate. But we should not assume for one minute that they are making a profit. There are many cases in which big users of superphosphate are not making a profit. Just because a farmer may be a big user of superphosphate it does not mean that he will make a big profit. The honourable senator suggested also that the people who use superphosphate are sectional. I would like to remind  Senator McLaren,  who is attempting to interject, that even the feed he buys for his poultry is subsidised to a small degree by the superphosphate bounty. 

 Senator Walsh made a rather interesting contribution to the debate. I would like to point out to honourable senators that he lives in the Federal electorate of Moore which showed one of the biggest swings against the Australian Labor Party of any Federal electorate in Australia. So his contribution to that election was not a great deal. I put the point that  Senator Walsh  probably lost the ALP the last 2 rural votes left for it in Australia. Perhaps he might be in a dead heat in this regard with  Mr Mick  Young who last night on the television program  Monday Conference  told the rather sick joke about the farmer getting a hernia lifting a bag of potatoes onto his wife's back. I guess  Senator Walsh  and  Mr Mick  Young would be coming a dead heat in this regard. It would have been rather interesting to hear  Senator Walsh's  contribution to this debate if he did not have a copy of the House of Representatives  Hansard  record. I suggest that almost all of the time he spoke was taken up by refuting arguments made in the House of Representatives without contributing anything to the debate himself. 
I would also like to take him back to the times when Western Australia was releasing about 1 million acres of land a year for new land farming. There was no criticism from the honourable senator at that time. Intensive criticism- one could describe it as prolific- was directed at the Brand Government alleging that it was not releasing this land quickly enough. The situation in those days was entirely different from what it is now. 
I agree wholeheartedly with  Senator Walsh  on one of the points that he made about the efficient use of superphosphate. That is a most important point. I agree also with his further remarks that we should try to employ a method of agriculture that uses less phosphate. The honourable senator was guilty of one rather amazing inaccuracy. He commenced his discourse by saying that he was going to rubbish the National Country Party. That was the one thing that he did not do; I was most surprised about that. It was rather relieving. 
Let me say plainly that I personally do not believe subsidies and bounties provide the best long term solution to rural problems. But I support the Bill before us to the extent that it will provide some relief to what is a desperate situation for many. It must be remembered that we are not just talking about farmers. We are talking also about the thousands of Australians who depend on farmers for their living. I would urge our Government to take what action it can through the States to encourage the more efficient use of superphosphate. State departments of agriculture are doing some work in this area as are superphosphate manufacturers. It must be remembered also that many farmers use the application of superphosphate as a form of banking. This was referred to by the Opposition. In times of high return, superphosphate is applied in some cases with rather gay abandon, while in years of low income no superphosphate is applied. While this practice does lead to wastage of what is now an expensive commodity, it does provide one method for a farmer to average out his taxable income to a degree and thus reduce income tax. 
I consider inflation the most serious problem facing rural communities, particularly if the producers depend largely on exports. Through inflation we are finding it more and more difficult to compete on world markets. I fully support our Government's genuine attack on inflation. There are many other important initiatives that we will take to improve the situation, including the establishment of a rural bank to provide long term finance, income equalisation deposits to reduce the problems of violent fluctuations in income, an increase in the present tax averaging limit of $16,000 and a reduction in the general level of taxation, to mention some. But the matter that I consider second in importance only to inflation as an area that will have a great effect on the security and prosperity of a large number of Australians is the area of tariff reform. I include in this group manufacturing, mining and many, many rural areas of production. If the amounts of tariff protection given to some industries in Australia were shown annually in the Budget as a bounty or subsidy instead of being hidden away, there would be a tremendous howl of protest from all over the country. 
I reject completely the hamfisted tariff reduction of 25 per cent across the board that was perpetrated by the previous Government. But I do support gradual selective reductions starting with those industries most highly protected. This would direct the resources of finance and labor into our most efficient areas of production. These are areas that can and do compete on world markets. We have the ridiculous situation now in some industries that, if every employee in those industries was paid his or her normal wage to do nothing and we imported the products that they now produce, we would be a richer country. 
I read with interest, as obviously did  Senator Walsh,  the contribution made by the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Wentworth,  in the debate on this Bill in the other place. He advocated the more rapid development of the phosphate rock deposits in Queensland. While I agree in general terms, I would counsel the Government to a degree of caution in this matter. My understanding is that some  10 000 tonnes  will soon be provided to each of the manufacturers in the Commonwealth for exhaustive testing and that, until the results of these tests are known, we should not assume that the Queensland deposits will necessarily produce cheaper phosphate for Australian farmers. I firmly commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
-We are debating 3 Bills- the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill 1976, which seeks to include an allowance for the labour of owner-operators of wheat farms in the specified cost items used to determine annual movements in the home consumption price of wheat under the current sixth wheat industry stabilisation plan; the Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976, which is a measure to expand the definition of 'wheat products' contained in the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1974; and the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill 1976, which is complementary to the other 2 Bills and proposes minor machinery amendments. As these Bills are being supported by the Opposition and are similar to legislation prepared by the previous Government, I shall confine my remarks to general comments about wheat stabilisation. 
Stabilisation was introduced soon after the Second World War, as  Senator Gietzelt  explained, and provides a stable price for the producer and some stability for flour millers and bakers. As my learned colleague  Senator Scott  demonstrated, the increase in the price of wheat has an almost negligible effect on the price of bread, contrary to the popular thought amongst members of the Press and bread consumers. Wheat stabilisation provides stability for producers. It is generally believed by producers to make a valuable contribution to the wheat industry. The security it provides is valuable. Security is an important consideration to a farmer, as it is to any small business. It is not generally understood that even medium sized wheat farmers have assets in excess of $250,000. With rapidly changing rates of income and rapidly increasing costs, farmers for very good reasons are concerned for their survival. 
That farm income varies dramatically from year to year is illustrated in the Green Paper on rural policy. This paper entitled  Rural Policy in Australia  at page 63 states - 
It is dated May 1974. It states:  4.39 Information obtained from a sample survey of almost 9000 taxpayers conducted by the Commissioner of Taxation shows that primary producers' net incomes are subject to a great deal more year-to-year variation than the net incomes of wage earners or operators of other businesses. 4.40 For instance, in each of the yearly comparisons, less than 16 per cent of primary producer taxpayers had relatively stable incomes (plus-minus 10 per cent variation between year one and year two) compared with over 25 per cent of other business operators and 3 1 per cent of wage and salary earners. Again a much larger proportion of primary producer taxpayers have very large fluctuations in their yeartoyear incomes (plus-minus 50 per cent or more). Over 40 per cent of primary producers had fluctuations of this magnitude compared with no more than 23 per cent for other businesses and 1 7 per cent for wage earners. 4.41 Furthermore, a greater proportion of primary producers appear to suffer decreases of incomes than other groups. Even in 1968-69, when total farm income rose by 50 per cent one-third of the primary producer taxpayers in the sample recorded declines in income. 
Broadly, wheat sales are directed into 2 partsthat portion that is consumed in Australia, which averages more than a fifth of our production, and that portion that is exported. The home consumption price is arrived at by using a complicated formula while the export portion is sold at world parity prices, sometimes on extended terms. At the beginning of each 5-year stabilisation period the Government negotiates with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to determine the rate of the first payment, which is guaranteed by the Government. Subsequent payments are made to growers based on overseas sales and, in particular, on how quickly we are paid by the countries to which we export. Final payment for a particular year can be many years after the grain is produced. In fact, last year wheat growers were paid the final payment on the wheat that was produced in 1970. Honourable senators can imagine what inflation did to that payment. 
I said that the security provided by stabilisation is valuable, but it has a price. It has been demonstrated that because of the scheme growers have forgone income of the order of $500m. That is the price of security and it is also some indication of the subsidies paid by growers to the bread consumers of Australia. Since the Second World War wheat growers have subsidised the cost of bread by almost $500m. In fact, during the debate on the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill in another place in 1974 it was demonstrated quite clearly by tables that in that year alone the farmers subsidised the Australian consumers by $ 107.9m. That was in one year. 
Another problem created by wheat stabilisationthis comment could apply to all similar schemes for the marketing of rural products- is that the producer is insulated from changes in world demand. This has the advantage of security but it does create major problems. Most wheat growers can change from one type of production to another in one year if demand changes but if a stabilisation scheme insulates their returns from changes in world demand farmers are not encouraged to change, even when their industry leaders try to persuade them to do so. In the early 1950s there was a substantial world demand for wheat which was not reflected in the stabilised price, so growers did not increase their production. Conversely in the period leading up to the wheat quotas in the late 1960s lower world demand did not reflect in the stabilised price quickly enough to encourage growers into other types of production. In other words, without stabilisation growers could have more rapidly increased production to take advantage of high world prices in the 1 950s and could have reduced production more quickly prior to the world glut in the early 1 970s. 
World prices for both feed grain and grain for human consumption are high at the moment and this is one of only 2 major areas of rural production in which prices are high. The main reason is that Russia has had 2 poor grain seasons in a row. This may seem a remote reason but world trade is so finely balanced that a major change in production in one country has repercussions all over the world. We must expect world wheat production again to exceed demand sometime during the next few years, particularly as China, traditionally a large if inconsistent importer of our wheat, is becoming selfsufficient. Grain production in China is based mainly on irrigation so it is not affected by droughts. Also, because the headwaters of her major rivers are being brought under control, floods do not present the threat to her grain production that they did in the past. In fact, from first hand knowledge I gained in China in 1973, 1 suggest that with her increasing mechanisation, her work on breeding better varieties, her disease and insect control and, just as important, her success with population control, China may very well become an exporter of wheat quite soon, in competition with Australia. 
I counsel industry leaders and governments in the strongest terms to start planning now for the certain necessity of production restrictions in the future. We must avoid the confusion and inequities that occurred when the industry was forced to introduce production restrictions in 1 969 with little or no advance warning. One inequity that occurs when the home consumption price exceeds the export price places farmers who live close to a State border- that does not include very many Western Australians- at an advantage in relation to their fellow growers. Because of the provisions of section 92 of the Commonwealth Constitution, State authorities are powerless to prevent growers on one side of the border from selling their grain direct to mills on the other. These growers are thus able to receive the higher price for their whole production instead of the average between domestic and export prices. When quota restrictions apply these growers are able also to avoid the restrictions of quotas by selling direct to mills and outside the Australian Wheat Board. Figures I have available to me suggest that during 1968 and 1969 about a quarter of our domestic sales were made in this way. Now, while export prices are high, is the time for governments and the industry to sort out these anomalies and to plan for the future. 
When industry leaders and governments get together to plan the future of the Australian wheat industry I suggest that 3 matters should be at the top of their agenda: Negotiability of wheat quotas, 2-price quota arrangements and another look at the fair average quality system. I shall deal firstly with the negotiability of wheat quotas. Under the previous quota arrangements nonnegotiability restricted production in areas that had no economic alternative production while at the same time producers who wanted to sell their quota entitlement and to grow more barley or oats or to increase their stock numbers were prevented from doing so. In other words, negotiability of quotas would tend to encourage wheat growing in the most economic areas and would tend to discourage it where other crops could profitably be grown. Also, a rigid quota system is quite often unfair on the young farmer who is trying to make a start or to expand his enterprise. 
I deal next with the two-price arrangement. With the security of a share of the domestic market some producers would be happy to sell their surplus production on the world market for whatever price it brings, particularly those who, for whatever reason, can produce wheat cheaply. I should like to see quotas applied only to the domestic market. It seems patently wrong to restrict production of food in an underfed world. 
With respect to the fair average quality system, the present arrangement whereby almost all of our crop is sold under the fair average quality system as Australian standard white, is easy to administer. Certainly it is the most efficient way for producing, storing, selling, shipping and paying growers over most of the wheat growing areas of Australia. There are many advantages in the present arrangement and I know that there would be strong resistance to change from many quarters. However, just as there are some parts of Australia that could economically produce other types of wheat, there are corresponding markets in the world for specialty wheats that we are not now supplying. This does not seem important now when export prices are relatively high but this is the time when we should be developing these alternative markets so that when our traditional markets are again over-supplied we shall have developed other markets and diversified our production to take advantage of them. 
I wish to make one comment on  Senator Gietzelt  's address. He expressed the hope that the Labor Party policies would again become more attractive to country people. He went on to explain that his Party will always meet a need when it sees one. To my mind this expresses exactly the difference in philosophy between our parties and the Labor Party. The Labor Party will prop up an industry when it sees one that it considers to be in need of propping up. It is our firm belief and our policy to create a situation whereby this need does not arise. I think that this has been well recognised by the farmers of Australia. 
I should like to bring to the notice of honourable senators another matter which is causing the industry great concern. I refer to the immunity of stored grain pests to the commonly used insecticides, particularly malathion. Our exported wheat is guaranteed free of insects- a guarantee which is essential if we are to maintain our exports. In fact, a ship load of, say, 20 000 tonnes of wheat could be rejected if one live insect were found amongst that load. So this is an important consideration. This guarantee that we give is much easier for our competitors to comply with than it is for us because almost all of our competitors produce wheat in much colder climates. Malathion is a chemical used widely to control grain insects on the farm and in country storage facilities. It is relatively cheap and safe. However, in recent years a dramatic increase in resistance to malathion has been detected. 
In Western Australia, where the problem is not as acute as it is in most other States, a farm survey was conducted in 1972 by the Western Australian Department of Agriculture on 525 farms throughout all major wheat growing districts. Results showed that whilst 87 per cent of the farms inspected had insect infestation, 13.5 per cent of the farms had insects that were resistant to malathion. That was in 1972. In 1975, last year, 394 grain samples containing insects were collected from widely scattered receival centres in Western Australia and 38 per cent of them were found to be malathion resistant. That shows a dramatic increase in 3 years. 
To this date no suitable substitute for malathion has been found, but I am informed that there is no lack of research to find a substitute as the rewards for such a find will be high. What should be the concern of us all is the huge extra cost of having to provide fumigation facilities at seaboard terminals. What should also concern us is that as the use of other more expensive and more dangerous materials becomes more widespread because of insect immunity to malathion, resistance to these other materials is becoming apparent. This could mean that all of the known chemicals that can be used to kill grain insects have a limited period of usefulness and we may have to resort to techniques such as sealing grain in nitrogen filled gas type bins for a minimum of 40 days. The cost of doing this has been estimated at between $ 100m and $200m. 
On the farm hygiene must be improved as most infestations can be traced back to this source. However, to get results extensive education programs coupled with regular farm inspections are required, and these cost money. Much is already being done by State departments of agriculture, mainly with industry funding but much more obviously needs to be done. I urge our Government to take whatever necessary steps it sees fit in this regard. Finally, let me cite some figures which demonstrate the importance of the wheat industry. During the last few years the average annual production was over  IVA  million tonnes of which Western Australia produced a third. Currently something slightly less than four fifths of our total production is exported, and it was worth over $ 1,000m in export earnings for the year 1974-75. Western Australia has a relatively small population and so a small consumption of wheat, yet exports some 40 per cent of the total Australian crop. The figure of $ 1 ,000m is hard for me to visualise. If we take the average weekly wage as $170-1 know it is a bit higher than that now-$ 1,000m would be sufficient to pay the annual wage bill of 113 000 people. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, also refers to newspaper articles. A front page article in a Perth newspaper last Sunday inferred that the Government had decided to reduce the matching grant on aged persons' homes from $4 for every $ 1 raised to $2 for every $ 1 raised. Can the Minister comment on the accuracy of this article? 
-I address my question to  Senator Cotton  in 2 of his capacities, that is, as Minister representing the Treasurer and Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Minister recall the answer that he gave to a question from  Senator Walters  regarding the setting up of a working party to examine the formation of a rural bank? Can the Minister give an assurance that a study will be made of the successful 'Farm Credit System' of the United States of America and the 'Raiffeisen'  system of West Germany? Will the Minister consider involving the Co-operative Federation of Australia in the working party? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I draw the Minister's attention to a provision of the new 40 per cent investment allowance which states: 
In the case of plant leased through a bank or finance company for a minimum period of 4 years, the allowance confers a lump sum deducted in the year in which the plant is first used or installed ready for use by the lessee that is based on the full cost of the plant to the lessor. 
Is the Minister aware that leasing arrangements have been entered into for a period of less than 4 years since January this year in the expectation of qualification for the 40 per cent tax deduction? Will the Minister comment on the eligibility for the allowance of those who have made these arrangements? 
Madam Acting  Deputy President-  I understand that is the correct title- I congratulate the Opposition for supporting the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill and the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collections Amendment Bill which we are debating cognately.  Senator Gietzelt  has explained the Bills adequately. I have been asked by my Whip to speak briefly as we have a very large legislative program ahead of us. So I will not worry the Senate with a great deal of verbiage. 
I would like to outline to the Senate the urgency of this brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication program. It has an extreme degree of urgency for 3 reasons: Firstly, many of the countries to which we export our meat, particularly the United States of America, have programs for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. The United States has forecast that it will complete its program by '.983. It is fairly logical to assume, particularly if beef is in large supply all over the world, that importing countries would prefer to take meat from those countries that are free of these diseases. Thus, an extreme degree of urgency attaches to this matter. The second point is the serious effect of these diseases on cattle production in Australia. Brucellosis causes abortion in cattle and is a disease that is transmittable from cow to cow. Tuberculosis causes death and serious loss of production in cattle. The third point I would like to make is that the disease presents a quite serious public health hazard. Brucellosis can be transmitted to humans as undulant fever and tuberculosis can be transmitted to humans in the form of bovine tuberculosis. 
The history of eradication in Australia is rather a chequered one. Our Tasmanian friends have put the rest of the States in Australia to shame in this area. They began an eradication program in 1930. Tasmania is now considered completely free of these 2 diseases. Western Australia began its program long before 1970. The latest report I have is that in that State the brucellosis incidence is about 0.2 per cent and the tuberculosis incidence is about 0. 1 per cent. I could be parochial, but I have to be honest and state that the main reasons for the success of these programs is the Bass Strait and the Nullarbor Plain. These 2 fortunate geographical features prevent a free interchange of cattle between States and make any eradication program much easier. 
It is rather sad that the other States of Australia are far behind in this program. In 1 970, at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council, an animal health committee was formed to co-ordinate a nation-wide campaign. The Federal Government at that time agreed to supply matching money to the States in the triennium 1969-72. Since that triennium, the percentage of money provided by the Commonwealth has been increased quite considerably. In 1973, as  Senator Gietzelt  outlined, a 0.6 cent per lblevy was imposed on export cattle. We are now debating the imposition of a $ 1 a head slaughter charge to replace that levy. As I said before, the situation as to this eradication program is quite variable as between States. To save the time of the Senate, I would like to quote from the Industries Assistance Commission report on brucellosis and tuberculosis, which is dated 10 April 1975. It is stated that Queensland expects to be provisionally free of these diseases in 1985 and to be completely free of them in 1995. New South Wales hopes to be provisionally free in 1980 to 1982, Victoria in 1980 to 1981, and South Australia in 1985 in pastoral areas and in 1981 in non-pastoral areas. Western Australia hopes to be provisionally free of these diseases in 1980 and the Northern Territory also hopes to be provisionally free of them by that date. Honourable senators would appreciate that this is getting alarmingly close to, if not beyond, the date when the United States expects to be free of the disease. 
Since 1972 the Commonwealth has expended S25m on this program, and the States themselves have expended $ 12m. It seems logical to me that now is the time when much more effort and action should be put into this program. Beef prices are low, so compensation for the slaughter of cattle would cost a great deal less than would be the case if beef prices were higher. There is a record number of cattle in Australia at the moment. As everybody knows, cattle prices are disastrously low. So that would be an added reason to concentrate on a massive slaughter program. Also, many private veterinarians have little or no work to do. This is logical when one thinks about this matter. If a cow costs, say, $50 to be treated and is worth only $30, there is not much logic in getting a veterinanian to look at a cow. For that reason, a large number of private veterinarians in Australia could be used to a greater extent than they are being used now in this eradication program. 
In my opinion enough Commonwealth finance is being expended on this program at the moment. The information that I have received from several State authorities indicates that this is so. But there are many serious deficiencies in the way in which this eradication program is being handled in several States. I should like to detail for the benefit of honourable senators the way in which the department in Western Australia is handling the program. The key was farmer education. I think that this was the most important thing in the whole program. The public relations exercise that is being undertaken by the department in Western Australia is extremely successful. 
All cattle producers understand the necessity for and the urgency of this eradication program. They embarked on a tail tagging program which allows the animal that is diseased to be identified at the place of slaughter and traced back to the owner. This puts the identification program in train. They started inoculating when strain 19 was first developed. Now they are using only the new vaccine 45/20. In Western Australia they consider that the incidence of brucellosis has now been low enough for the last two or three years to allow them to embark on a quite extensive program of test and slaughter. This ties in with a quite lavish, in some instances, compensation program. In fact, unsubstantiated information that I have received indicates that about one-third of the herds in Western Australia have reached the certified or accredited stage, which means that they are completely free of disease. 
The deficiencies which I mentioned previously and which I consider should be overcome if we are to succeed in this rather urgent program relate, firstly, to the method of administration of the finance that is allocated to this program. It has been estimated in one State in particular, in respect of which I have quite a bit of information, that 75 per cent of the money allocated to this program is used just in administration. That State adopts what is considered in Western Australia to be a completely unco-ordinated approach. It does not use the local services of the farmer organisations or the veterinarians anywhere near enough. What seems ridiculous to clear-thinking people is that the people in this State will work for two or three years to achieve a clean herd of cattle, free of any disease, but then they will place no restriction on the introduction into that herd of what could be diseased cattle. So they immediately nullify any good work that they have done. 
It is also considered that in some cases the valuations which the department places on these cattle are completely unrealistic. In fact, one grazier in this State to whom I was speaking recently considered that it would pay him to have his whole herd declared diseased and even injected so that he could be paid for the cattle a price which would be much higher than he would otherwise receive. Probably the most serious anomaly is that in several States there is a serious lack of farmer education. Farmers just do not appreciate the seriousness of the problem. It is a serious problem, and I should like to suggest that this Government should watch the position very closely. Although the administration of this eradication program is handled by each State, it is not of much use for our friends from Tasmania or Western Australia to have cattle free of the disease when, because cattle production is considered to be a national enterprise, they are prevented from exporting cattle because of the ineffectual programs carried out by the other States. I strongly commend the Bills. 
I will not go through the objectives of these five or six Bills that we are debating. Firstly, I should like to refer to a couple of matters that  Senator Gietzelt  discussed. He questioned the right of private wool buyers to operate in the wool market. I refer him to a report of the economic section of the Australian Wool Corporation into the question of private wool buying. That report recognised the value of private wool merchants and does not suggest the abolition of private wool buying. But it recognised that if the operation of private wool buying gets beyond its present level it could create some difficulties. 
I refer honourable senators to the debate on these Bills which ensued in another place and also something that  Senator Walsh  and  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned regarding this Government's so-called indecision in not giving the wool industry a lead as to what the future wool reserve price will be. I refer to the speech made by the honourable member for Blaxland,  Mr Keating,  which is reported on page 2659 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 28 May 1976. There he is reported to have said: 
Now it is up to this Government to say where it stands but to date we have heard nothing except that it will do it at the end of the season. Let the Government give the industry some indication. 
This would be a completely irresponsible and mischievous thing for the Government to do. Let us imagine the situation if the wool buyers of the world had advance warning of what the reserve price was to be. If the reserve price was to be higher there would be a rush for wool. Conversely, if the price was to be lower the buyers would hold off buying wool. As I have said, it would be completely irresponsible for the Government to indicate what the reserve price was to be. 
I turn now to deal with some of the comments that  Senator Walsh  made. I respect his views on quite a number of things that he mentioned. He speaks with quite a lot of knowledge on economic affairs, but I suggest that his memory is rather lacking when he refers to the establishment of the reserve price program. For the illumination of  Senator Walsh  and other honourable senators opposite I point out that the Australian Wool Corporation was set up by the Liberal-Country Party Government. The suggestion was made to the wool growers that there should be a reserve price scheme. Governments of our political colour do not impose on people things that they do not want. It took many years to convince the growers that a reserve price scheme would work. So rather than there being indecision on our part, we were waiting for the growers to decide what they wanted us to do. Honourable senators will recall that when the Wool Corporation was established it set up its own flexible reserve price. Two of the most vehement opponents of" the establishment of the Corporation were Messrs Patterson and Whan. Sadly, they are no longer in this Parliament. But the Labor Party was strongly opposed to the establishment of the Wool Corporation which has done a tremendous amount of good for the industry. All growers throughout Australia have recognised that the Corporation is making a very important contribution. 
These Bills refer to the imposition of a levy of 5 per cent on the sale of wool. I also remind honourable senators that in addition to this levy there is another levy of 3 per cent which has been imposed for many years and which is used for research and promotion. 1 believe that the way in which the wool industry levies itself is an example to other rural industries. Wool growers, by their tremendous support, have recognised the importance of research and promotion. Now they are financing the reserve price scheme. Although the present Bills set a minimum price for wool for this coming season, they do not prevent an increase from being made in the reserve price for the financial year beginning 1 July. I wish to make it quite plain that these Bills do not prevent an increase from being made in the reserve price. 
I have received representations, as probably other honourable senators from rural areas have, to the effect that the reserve price should be increased to 300c per kilogram. Many wool growers, particularly in Western Australia, believe that if this increase were granted they would voluntarily provide a 10 per cent levy to allow the Wool Corporation to be controlled more and more by the growers and to have less dependence on governments. In response to that I indicate that I agree with what  Senator Walsh  said, that it would be completely irresponsible of this Government to recommend an increase in the reserve price beyond what we can rightfully expect the market level to be. I also must point out that the flexible reserve price is operating again. As other honourable senators have already mentioned, this price is operating substantially above 250c per kilogram. 
In passing I should like to pay a tribute to the Australian Wool Corporation, and in particular to Pat Moore and John Bennison, the Corporation members from Western Australia, both of whom I know quite well. I also refer in particular to the staff, to  Dr Arthur  Farnworth, Malcolm Vawser and Morrie Pell whom I personally know. They have done a tremendous amount of work for the wool industry. Probably the work that they have done will never be completely recognised. 
In 1974-75 the income received by the Corporation was $88m. Of that, $60m was received from growers through levies and $ 14.7m was contributed from Government funds specifically for wool promotion. In that year the main portion of the income was expended on the International Wool Secretariat. Very few people understand that the major portion of expenditure on wool promotion is incurred overseas. Unfortunately, very few growers in Australia have an opportunity of seeing the functioning of the International Wool Secretariat. I can assure them that it is doing a tremendously good job. It concentrates its work more in areas where wool is used. 
We export 90 per cent of our wool and we export to some 38 countries. The countries are listed in the latest report of the Australian Wool Corporation. The report shows that Japan takes 29 per cent of our wool, France 1 1 per cent and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 13 per cent. These figures refute some of the arguments that members of the Labor Party consistently put forward in trying to tie in diplomatic relations with international trade. The report shows that our exports to mainland China have actually fallen off quite substantially and that we export 5 times as much wool to Taiwan as we do to the People's Republic of China. There is no significant difference in the percentages before and after we recognised the People's Republic of China. At June 1975, 1.6 million bales of wool were in store in Australia as a result of the operations of the reserve price scheme. This is a third of our annual production and is rather an alarming amount. Currently 1.3 million bales of wool are held in store, conservatively valued at $250m. 
The wool industry received tremendous competition from synthetics some years ago. One of the reasons given for this is that manufacturing wool from the raw state into the fabric is quite a lot more expensive than is the manufacture of synthetics. There are many reasons for that; I will not mention them all now. I pay a tribute to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for its major innovation in the spinning process of wool. CSIRO has developed a self-twist machine which is currently being manufactured by the Repco company. Wool is being forced into the high cost market. Because of the factors I have mentioned we cannot compete with the cheap production of synthetics and we are being forced into the high quality, high fashion market. But things are improving and rather interestingly the high price of oil is forcing synthetic manufacturers to raise their prices, thus helping the natural fibres. 
The advances in production techniques in the last few years are quite outstanding. Honourable senators will be aware that about 60 per cent of the Australian wool clip is sold by sample and objective measurement. I pay a tribute to my own State of Western Australia which took the lead in this field. I think some 80 per cent of wool in Western Australia is sold by objective measurement. Many other innovations are in the pipeline. Computer selling has been talked about a great deal and could save the cost involved in wool buyers travelling around the country from sale to sale. Also, tremendous advances have been made in the last 10 to 15 years particularly in sheep breeding programs. I would like to say how much I appreciate the help that CSIRO and various institutes and departments concerned with agriculture have given in this regard. 
As everybody would realise, costs are increasing in the industry. This is its most serious problem. The Australian Wool Corporation completed a calculation recently comparing the years 1970 to 1976. It was able to show, quite conclusively, that the cost per kilogram of getting wool from the sheep's back to the woollen mills has increased from 30.46c in 1970 to 74.75c in 1976. This is a 145 per cent increase and is far above any inflationary increases. I counsel the Government that a consideration of costs in the industry is our major priority. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. During the Budget Speech on Tuesday it was announced that an income equalisation deposit scheme would be introduced. This measure already has been welcomed by the farming community. It was announced that the scheme could commence with income from the 1975-76 year. This could be of great benefit to those farmers who had a large taxable income last year and are suffering from a drought this year. Could the Minister explain how the scheme would be administered and, in particular, how farmers can take advantage of it in respect of the 1975-76 year? 
I had no intention of contributing to this debate until I heard  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Walsh  opposite speak on rural affairs. They made some inaccurate and misleading statements which spurred me on to make some contribution. I assure  Senator Cavanagh  that honourable senators on this side of the chamber have no difficulty whatsoever in supporting this excellent Budget. Contributors to the debate from this side of the Senate have covered areas very well. I shall run quickly through some of the positive achievements which this Budget has made and I shall comment on some points which  Senator Walsh  and  Senator Gietzelt  have made. Then, in a bit more detail, I shall cover some of the positive areas in which the Government has assisted rural industry. 
I cite some of the highlights of the Budget and of other matters which the Government announced on 20 May. We have the new family allowance. We have full, personal income tax indexation which, as  Senator Scott  pointed out, will reduce the projected taxation revenue by over a billion dollars. There is the removal of the property means test for pensioners. Pension rates are to be adjusted automatically in line with the consumer price index. There will be the first stage of company tax indexation and the relaxation of distribution requirements for private companies. New tax concessions were announced for mining and petroleum companies with the abolition of the $2 per barrel levy on crude oil for new discoveries. There are new exemptions from estate duty on estates passing to a surviving spouse. A 3-year program of $225m was announced for assistance in the provision of aged persons homes and hostels. There is a 3-year program of $ 121m for assistance to handicapped people. Net payments to the States and local authorities will total $9 billion. A very important provision for rural people is the extension of free telephone line service and maintenance from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres. Honourable senators will remember that it was a Labor Government which in August 1973 reduced that service from 15 kilometres to 8 kilometres. We are redressing that imposition. 
The Budget sets out to reduce the rate of inflation to below 10 per cent by June 1977. This must be the most important thrust of the whole Budget. We are setting out a program of real economic growth. Honourable senators will remember that under the Australian Labor Party for the first time in Australia we had an actual reduction in real economic growth. We plan to increase employment by 2 per cent in 12 months. We have voted for an increase of 1 8 per cent in defence estimates. We have increased education expenditure by 15 per cent and social security and welfare expenditure by 23 per cent. We have set out to reduce substantially the $5 billion deficit. 
When  Senator Wriedt  opened the debate for the Opposition he made great play of Government leaks. If we cast our minds back we will remember the incredible number of leaks which spilled from a succession of Labor budgets. One way of refuting that suggestion is by pointing out that almost all of the initiatives taken in this Budget caught everybody, including the Opposition and the Press, completely by surprise. So much for leaks!  Senator Gietzelt  's contribution was interesting. I shall read from his speech as reported in Senate  Hansard  of 25 August at page 301: 
. assistance to the dairying industry is down by $7. 7m on the allocations made by the Labor Government in 1975-76. 
This has been well explained. We are waiting for the Crawford report. No doubt, as soon as that report comes forward we will respond to it in a positive way. Later on he stated that this Government had failed to establish a national rural bank. I assure honorourable senators that planning is well under way. I happen to be on the committee which is drawing up the plan for the establishment of a rural bank.  Senator Gietzelt  made a rather incredible statement when he said that the Government failed to establish a farm income reserve fund. Later he went on to congratulate us for setting up an income equalisation deposits scheme. Anybody experienced in rural industries will appreciate that the fund and the scheme are exactly the same thing. Later he stated: 
The Government has failed to effectively suspend the export levy on beef . . . 
In fact, we have suspended the export levy on beef.  Senator Gietzelt  claimed that we had failed to establish a young farmers establishment scheme. That project is also well on the way. Later,  Senator Gietzelt  in his interesting talk, stated: 
By not distinguishing between farm and non-farm income for the purposes of the scheme - 
This is the income equalisation deposits scheme which the honourable senator says the Government did not implement- a cynic may well conclude that the Fraser Government is more concerned with assisting Pitt Street and Collins Street fanners than genuine farmers. Clearly, the Government has not considered the side effects of this hastily worked out scheme. 

 Senator Walsh made great play of this scheme assisting those aforementioned farmers. I point out to those 2 honourable senators that the tax averaging scheme has been in existence for many years. It has exactly the same provisions in the areas it covers as has the income equalisation deposits scheme. The Labor Government did nothing to restrict the wide application of that scheme. 
I turn my attention now to a couple of things which  Senator Cavanagh  said. He pointed to the list of bankruptcies and, for some reason, seemed to think that that was an indication of prosperity in the rural industry. I point out to him that in the period 1969-72 there was an actual reduction of 4313 in the number of rural holdings in Australia. In the period 1972-73, under the Labor Administration, there was a reduction in the rural holdings of 6998. So there were almost 7000 fewer farmers during that short period.  Senator Cavanagh  conveniently forgets that inflation took its tremendous toll of rural industries. Out of the 24 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries in 1972 we ranked sixteenth in relation to inflation. In early 1976 we ranked fifth. That is an incredible leap of 1 1 places in the OECD list of inflation affected countries. If I have time I shall return to some of the most peculiar comments which  Senator Cavanagh  made about protests. I thought they were quite incredible. 
I certainly concede that, but I also point out that Labor Party philosophy is supposed to support the little people. This is completely the reverse. It tends to enlarge farms and not encourage the small farmers. At page 369 of the Senate  Hansard  of 26 August we find that  Senator Walsh,  in discussing the increase in farm income over the 3 years when the Labor Party was in power, stated: 
So for the 3 years of Labor Government the amount - 
This is of real farm income- was 45 per cent higher than it had been in the 3 preceding years. 
Of course, in exactly the same period there was a 250 per cent increase in inflation and, as I pointed out, a reduction in the number of rural holdings. I do not think even  Senator Walsh  will deny that the real farm income is more dependent on seasons and prices than it is on other factors. The most recent election indicated how much support the Labor Party received from country areas. On page 371 of the same  Hansard  Senator Walsh  says: 
So if this Government bases its policies on an uncritical endorsement of the Industries Assistance Commission 's report, all I can say is that it does it very selectively. 
He went on to try to make the point that we select only those parts of the report that we want. Of course, the big comparison here is that the Labor Party did not adopt any suggestions from LAC reports. On page 372  Senator Walsh  mentioned the Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers benefiting from the income equalisation deposit scheme. Here I make the same point: The Labor Party had 3 years in which to change that aspect of tax averaging but did nothing about it. 
To summarise  Senator Walsh's  contribution, I would suggest that he must be terribly pleased to be back in Opposition. I looked very hard but could see nothing constructive in his contribution. He suggested that the Budget was a dismal and dishonest document. I remind him of the previous Government's record under 3 Labor Treasurers. I gather that there is now some competition for the position of next Labor Treasurer. The McMahon Government had a total Budget allocation of $10 billion whereas the Hayden Budget had a total expected allocation of $21 billion. It more than doubled in that short time. In 1974  Mr Crean's  Budget estimated a surplus of $571 million. In fact it turned out to be a $2.1 billion deficit. The Hayden Budget of 1975 estimated a $2.8 billion deficit but, as we all know, it finished up being well over a $4 billion deficit. So much for dismal and dishonest documents. Just as an aside, the Governor-General came to Western Australia in 1974 to open the World Conference of the Associated Country Women of the World. I well remember the tremendous publicity that the conference received in Perth. However, the GovernorGeneral had to go to a great deal of trouble to get any support at ali from the Government during that period of tremendous extravagances. 
I would like now to cover some of the positive ways in which this Budget assists rural industries. The thrust of the whole Budget policy must be to control inflation as all export industries, particularly rural industries, are more seriously affected by inflation that by any other factor. This object must, in turn, be tied to economic restraint. Almost all the policies we have adopted on rural industries were recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. The discontinuation of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty was one of its recommendations as was the reinstatement of the superphosphate bounty and the $ 15m to be made available for carry-on loans to beef producers. Then there is the suspension of the meat export charges. Under the Budget the Commonwealth will also be providing Sim for the continuation of the fruit growing reconstruction scheme and $65,000 for the Australian Wine Institute. There is also the introduction of an investment allowance for new plant and equipment, the extension of the rural reconstruction scheme to 31 December 1976 at a cost of $ 10m while further recommendations are being made by the Industries Assistance Commission, the extension of the dried fruit stabilisation scheme, assistance to the apple and pear industry, loans to canneries, increased tariff protection against orange juice imports, the underwriting for the 1975-76 season of the equalisation value of skim milk powder at $300 a tonne on a two-to-one basis with the States. 
There is also the underwriting arrangement for skim milk powder and casein for a 6-months period ending 31 December 1976, the underwriting till 3 1 December 1976 of the equalisation value for butter and cheese costing $900 and $680 per tonne respectively, and the provision of $ 1 3.5m for adjustment assistance to the dairying industry in 1976-77. The Crawford report is imminent and no doubt further positive action will be taken as a result of it. In addition to these matters there is the provision of $ 12m to the States for 1976-77 for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis and $6.1m for the brucellosis slaughter compensation scheme as recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. There is the extension of the Softwood Forest Agreement Act for 1976-77 with the allocation of $6m, an increase in the floor price of wool to 234c per kilogram on a whole clip average for the 1976-77 selling season compared with 206c in 1975-76. There is the provision of drought relief for affected areas under the natural disaster assistance arrangement with the 
States. I pay tribute here to the tremendous response that the Western Australian Government has made to the critical drought situation in that State. It has been quick off the mark and has alleviated the problem quite considerably. One of the greatest problems, as honourable senators would realise, is the psychological problem of drought. This has taken its toll in the past and will in the future, but the response of the Western Australian Government to this drought has mitigated its effect quite considerably. The Budget provides for income maintenance support for farmers by varying the eligibility criteria for unemployment benefits to include farmers who are suffering severe financial hardship and who have registered for employment. All these programs will be kept well under control and modified as the need arises. 
I would like to touch now on the income equalisation deposit scheme. It is not realised by many rural producers that this scheme will be made retrospective to include the 1 975-76 income year. Great play has been made by the Opposition of the fact that because of the drought very few people will have any income to put into this scheme. In Western Australia, as in may other States, the wheat growing areas have had tremendously high incomes and one of their biggest problems, apart from drought, is affording to pay their income tax this year. In many cases this scheme will alleviate that problem for these producers. It also will get over one of the problems which  Senator Walsh  underlines frequently and in which I tend to agree with him, that under the previous income tax arrangements many farmers were encouraged to make unnecessary and imprudent purchases of plant and machinery just to avoid paying income tax. I believe that this income equalisation deposit scheme will alleviate that necessity to a great extent. I concede that this scheme will not assist low income producers but it will help keep a lot more farmers in a viable situation and, even more importantly, will reduce the need in many cases for emergency assistance when there is a short term downturn in income or prices. 
The Opposition makes great play on the phasing out of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy; but the phasing out of the subsidy is in line with suggestions of the Industries Assistance Commission. The first reduction will commence in January 1977. The subsidy is expected to be phased out by the end of 1 978, but a revision will be made before that date. The superphosphate bounty continues at its present rate. That is in line with the draft report of the IAC that was made in July 1 976. For the benefit of honourable senators I would like to read a couple of the highlights from the summary of that report which, to my mind, put a different emphasis on some of the rural problems. Half way down the first page of the report, under the heading 'Summary', the following comments are made: 
These industries - the Commission is talking about the wool, wheat and meat industries in Australia- are low-cost, efficient by Australian and world standards, and in receipt of little assistance in other forms or in total. However, some high-cost industries are also assisted. 
In the next paragraph the following comment was made: 
It has concluded - this is the Commission- on efficiency grounds, that assistance for the consumption of phosphatic fertilisers should be continued. 
Later in the same paragraph the report stated: 
. removal of the present assistance would lead to less efficient use of Australian resources. However, it does not favour increased assistance. 
The following statement was made in the last paragraph on page 1: 
The Commission sees tariff-induced distortions as being removed only gradually. It has no evidence that demonstrably better measures will be found easily or quickly. On the other hand, it believes the opportunities to identify alternative and more efficient measures should arise as assistance for rural industries is reviewed. Progress in this area, and in reducing high protection to import-competing industries, would need to be taken into account when the bounty is reviewed. 
I would like to highlight some of the problems still facing rural industries. Most honourable senators would be aware of these problems, but I would just like to underline them. Overseas markets are still the main source of rural income. Rural reconstruction and other measures in the future will need continuing and probably greater support from this Government. I believe that, as it has been demonstrated that because of increasing costs and inflation we no longer are able to be competitive in certain areas of production, farmers who have been placed in this position through no fault of their own should not be penalised. I believe that it is in the area of rural reconstruction that we can assist these farmers most ably. Inflation remains our major problem. I believe that this Budget will make a positive and concerted effort to reduce that problem for the rural producer. 
It is probably well known that Australia is the biggest exporter of beef in the world. It also produces more wool than any other country and is a very substantial producer of grain. I would like to quote some figures from a document which I received recently from the research and development department of the Australian Wool Corporation. The statistics in this document underline the sorts of problems that the Australian rural producer, particularly the export producer, is facing. The document sets out in great detail the individual cost of every operation in moving wool from the sheep's back to the mill door. To summarise, in November 1973 the direct cost to the wool grower was 33.4c a kilo greasy. In March 1976 the figure had risen to 5 6c. The total cost from the sheep's back to the mill door in November 1973 was 46.9c a kilo greasy and in March 1976 it was 74c. That is an incredible increase in that short time. The shearing cost portion of that increase went from 9.6c a kilo in November 1973 to 15.6c a kilo in March 1976. This dramatic increase has taken place in less than  21/2  years. 
Finally, I point out that in my short time in the Senate I have been quite interested in the different attitudes of Government senators and Opposition senators on rural problems. It seems that there is a concerted effort on the part of the Opposition to make as many producers as possible dependent on governments. The present Opposition certainly went a long way towards achieving that when it was in government. I point out that rural producers are the largest single group of small business men in Australia. They are extremely independent and self-reliant people. It has been proved in the last election and in many other ways that the Government's objective of creating a situation where rural producers can help themselves is the right one. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I read a Press statement this morning regarding funding arrangements for organisations providing accommodation for aged or disabled persons. Under this arrangement $225m will be available to provide an additional 15 000 beds for aged or disabled people during the next 3 years. My questions are: Firstly, what proportion of the total cost will each organisation be expected to contribute from its own resources; secondly, when will funds for the 1976-77 year be available; thirdly, will it be possible for organisations listed for funding in the 1977-78 year to borrow against their Commonwealth entitlement; and fourthly, will it now be possible for the 900 projects that were at a standstill last year because of lack of funds to proceed? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the Minister's statement yesterday on the 3-year program for accommodation for aged or disabled persons. I ask: What proportion of the total cost of each project is to be raised by the local organisation? What conditions are to be met by the local organisation to qualify for Commonwealth assistance? Does the Minister set the rents to be paid by the tenants, or is this left to the local organisation? 
I direct a question to  Senator Cotton  as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. No doubt he is aware that many rural producers are eager to know the details of the income equalisation deposits as they apply to income for the year 1975-76. Can the Minister give me some indication when these details will be available? 
-Will the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs assure the Senate that the reduction in income tax through indexation will not reduce the amount of money received by the States through the federalism policy? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the report of an address yesterday by the Minister for Primary Industry stating that if Australian fishermen were unable to make full use of the extended area of operation when Australia 's ocean limit is extended to 320 kilometres, foreign fishing boats will be allowed to operate within this limit. Will the Minister consider allowing the fishing boats from Taiwan to be given first opportunity to fish legally within the proposed new limit as I am sure that most Western Australians would support this action? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refers to a report that the Transport Workers Union in Western Australia has agreed to support the operations of ACTU-Solo in that State. Does this mean that they will continue to supply ACTUSolo stations during industrial action? Would this contravene the law on restrictive trade practices? If so, what action could the Government take? 
I thought I had heard everything but to hear  Senator Mulvihill  associate himself with the Right Honourable William McMahon is tremendous; he is really improving.  Senator Mulvihill  mentioned cooperation between unions and employers. This is in fact being achieved, and quite successfully in many areas, but unfortunately I understand that the Cadbury organisation, even though it set out deliberately to encourage this co-operation, has not had the co-operation from trade unions that it would have liked. Nevertheless, it will keep working at it. I must admit that I left the chamber for one minute during  Senator Keeffe  's discourse. It must have been then that he said something constructive because he did not say anything constructive while I was here. He referred to  Mr Uren.  Is that the  Mr Uren  who when in Western Australia just after the election said that students who were not satisfied with the ballot box result should take to the streets? My colleagues now tell me that he was the one.  Senator Douglas  McClelland suggested some solutions to our problems and his first suggested solution was to reduce indirect taxation. What a magnificent suggestion from a senator who when in government doubled indirect taxation. It was an incredible thing to say. He used the words dole bludger' about 5 times. Since I have been in the Senate I have never heard one Government senator use that expression but it is used time and time again by Opposition senators. 
It is rather interesting and a pleasant change to have the Australian Labor Party talking about something it really understands and, boy, does it understand unemployment! It presided over a record increase in unemployment in only 3 years, a 140 per cent increase. To the final number of 328 000 unemployed in 1975 we have to add the 26 000 who were employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme. That brings the total number of unemployed to a pretty high figure. We have been talking about young people, and in those 3 years the number of young unemployed rose from 80 000 in 1972 to about 152 000. So much for the Labor Party's concern for unemployment. 
I would like to be as objective as I can and point to some of the positive ways in which the Government is trying to improve the situation. I will first refer to the short-term measures which most senators on this side and the other side of the chamber appreciate as being only palliatives. It is the long-term effect that we are really after. However, we are maintaining spending on the National Employment and Training scheme and improving it in that we are providing on-the-job training under the NEAT scheme. We have introduced a re-location assistance scheme to assist people to move from areas of unemployment to areas of employment. We have improved the subsidy to encourage employers to employ school leavers, the level of subsidy paid to employers being set at $58 a week. 
I turn now to long term matters. As many honourable senators on this side have said, we cannot divorce inflation from unemployment. They are tied inextricably together. The first thrust of this Government must be to reduce inflation. One of the positive ways of doing it is by indexing taxation. This will in effect reduce the necessity for wage demands from workers and reduce the tax bill by over $ 1 billion. We have been more generous with the States and so have allowed them to reduce their charges. We have followed the general thrust of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. We have set out to encourage the more efficient industries. We are encouraging investment in 2 ways- by the 40 per cent investment allowance, which has already been referred to, and by the new stock valuation provision which, once it is finalised, will make a major difference to investment in industry. We have also set up an inquiry to relate the needs of employment to the present education system. This should be a useful exercise. It will take many years to reverse the tragedy of Labor but I am certain that this Government's policies will work. 
I am a farmer. Until December 1975 I was an active full-time farmer. I produced mainly for the export market. I am probably better equipped to speak at first hand on the effects of the last 3 years of Labor Government than almost anybody else. People can see the figures but if you experience the conditions it has much more effect. I employ some labour. I do not employ anywhere near as much labour as I did 3 years ago. I replaced that labour with machines. I have been forced by increased costs to increase production dramatically. In the 3 years from 1973 to 1975 there was an increase of 50 per cent in average weekly earnings- an astronomical rise- yet there was no increase in production to come anywhere near that figure. One of the less appreciated side effects of that situation was a dramatic increase in taxation and of course the Labor Party needed that money to finance its rather indiscriminate spending. 
My friend mentions holidays. There was an increase in holidays and in holiday loadings. Workers compensation premiums increased dramatically. I agree with the Labor Party when it says that we should not blame the unions. I do not blame the unions for trying to maintain the buying power of wages consequent upon inflation. They have every right to do so. What we must do and what this Government is charged to do is to decrease the need for this wage-cost hike that is going on all the time. Just to illustrate my point, I come back to my own personal situation. I am in fairly close contact with the Australian Wool Corporation. It has a tremendous information section. Anybody who is interested in getting up-to-date information is very welcome to apply to the Corporation. It gave me some detailed figures recently on the cost of moving wool from the sheep's back to the overseas mill door. In November 1973 that cost was 46.9c a kilo greasy. In March 1 976 it cost 74c a kilo greasy- a 58 per cent increase in not much more than 3 years. That was a dramatic increase. It is resulting in many people with otherwise viable properties in my area, particularly areas to the north of where I live in Geraldton, finding it completely uneconomical to continue. These people have had to sack all of the people who work on them. It is not really a matter of sacking them. They just cannot afford them. Many of the people in these areas have had to walk off their properties. 
This is a tragic situation. These properties have been operating for over 100 years. Tremendous improvements have been made to them. The properties have proved their value through producing first quality wool but because of the tremendous increases in costs the people have just had to walk off their properties. This is happening more and more. One of the obvious results of this is that it has reduced employment opportunities dramatically in country towns. Probably inflation and this madness of the Labor Party during its term in office have affected employment opportunities in country areas and in country towns more than in any other single area. This was caused by the Labor Government which pretended it believed in decentralisation. 
I will mention some of the things that are going to happen unless we can improve the situation. I illustrate my point by referring to the present unresolved disagreement between the unions and the wool stores regarding the 180 kilogram bale weight. For the time being it costs me many dollars to have my bales repacked if they happen to be more than 180 kilograms in weight. This issue arose only recently. There was never any problem years ago. There is certainly a deliberate attempt by the growers to increase the bale weight because this is one real way they can reduce their costs, particularly for those who live a long way from the selling centre. The obvious result is that the wool stores will have to employ less labour. They are going to mechanise the whole of the operations in the wool stores which means they will employ less labour. I regret very much the need to do this, but this is the sort of thing that is happening. 
I was in New Zealand a couple of years ago representing Western Australian Farmers Cooperative Ltd. I watched meat being loaded in ports in New Zealand. Almost invariably carcasses that are loaded on ships are not touched by human hands. They are put onto a conveyor belt at the wharfside. They go straight from the trucks into the holds on the conveyor. This is the sort of thing that is going to be forced on to the industries in Australia unless we can reduce these tremendous demands for increases in wages. 
Looking a bit further ahead, there is a tremendous amount of experimental work going on in Australia to mechanise shearing. I have had a tremendously high regard for the Australian Workers Union which is responsible for the majority of shearers in Australia. I respect the union tremendously. It understands the situation. It understands the position of the workers very well and it has a very good relationship with the employers of its members but because of the huge cost-price squeeze mechanical shearing will probably be a fact sooner than we think. 
In the Pilbara iron ore development area not far north of where I live, 5 per cent of the Western Australian work force is employed. Last year that area was responsible for 62 per cent of the total man hours lost. That is an incredible record. I do not say it was due to unionism. In fact, I suggest it was because of a lack of unionism. This is the sort of thing that is going on. The union leaders are not in a strong enough position in that area to enforce the awards and agreements that are made. Never mind the cause, the result is that Japan has issued a very strong warning to Australia that we are beginning to price ourselves out of the iron ore market. This is a tremendous export earning market for Australia. We are beginning to price ourselves out of it. We have one of the worst reputations overseas for being a regular supplier of goods. It is no wonder that we are losing all these markets. 
The last point I wish to make- I believe it is worth thinking about- is that unions generally represent workers. They do not represent the unemployed or the young people. When the Government is negotiating with unions over awards and other matters, I suggest it try to get somebody other than unions to represent the unemployed. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry. Can he give the Senate some indication of when the details of the income equalisation deposit scheme will be available? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam,  claiming that trade unions have the right to take industrial action on political issues. As a preface to my question, I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that union leaders are often elected by only a small percentage of their members and that the total labour force constitutes approximately only 50 per cent of the population over the age of 15. The Government represents nearly 100 per cent of the people. Can the Minister explain what legal rights trade unionists have in dictating their political beliefs- or more likely those of their irresponsible leaders- to the community of Australia or against the democratically elected Government of Australia? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence confirm that the South Australian Premier has announced that he will not allow cadets in South Australian state schools? Does the Government propose to take any action in this matter? 
My question is directed to  Senator Cotton  as Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. During the recent United States presidential election campaign  Mr Carter  seemed to indicate quite different priorities with regard to trade from those of the policy presently practised by that country. Is the Minister confident that Australia will be able to maintain at least our present trade with the United States? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the White Paper on Australian Defence tabled in the Senate last Thursday. Will the Minister please comment on 2 matters? The map on pages 28 and 29 shows Canberra as the centre of the world, whereas I have been told that Perth deserves that honour. The second matter is that distances are shown in miles. Does this mean that  Senator Wood,  whose feelings on metrication are well known and who is the senior senator from the home State of the Minister for Defence, has more influence over that Minister than does his ministerial colleague, the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster,  or does it mean that the Minister for Defence insidiously is trying to restore furlongs to the racetrack? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I have noticed that  Mr Whitlam  recently has advocated the re-formation of the Regional Employment Development scheme. Is it true that the previous RED scheme was being phased out by the Labor Government last year? Is the unemployment situation significantly different now from what it was then? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As a result of the Government's decision to extend free telephone installation from 8 kilometres from the exchange to 12 kilometres from the exchange, can the Minister give the Senate some indication of when the resulting backlog of construction work will be completed? The conversion of many manual exchanges to automatic depends to a large degree on this matter. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport any information regarding the time-table and placement of the Omega navigation station? Does the fact that the Labor Party now appears to be in favour of the installation make any difference to its timing or siting? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. During a speech last night  Senator Gietzelt  suggested that the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill was introduced so late in the present session of Parliament because the Government gave a low priority to rural matters. Will the Minister agree that rural matters were given great prominence earlier this year and that the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill only gives effect to maintaining the present subsidy rate until the end of the year? 
-The Bill we are debating is the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. We have just listened to a 55 minute speech by  Senator Gietzelt,  the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party on rural matters. I hope to present some more facts than he did in a quarter of the time. I would like to devote the first portion of my address to some of the points made by  Senator Gietzelt.  He made a thoughtful speech and made some good points. I agree in particular with his point regarding long term planning. Successive governments have neglected this area rather badly. I know situations change tremendously and it is a very difficult area, but I think we should all attempt to do more work in this area. 

 Senator Gietzelt mentioned last night the lack of prominence the Government has given to rural Bills. He suggested that because this Bill was introduced so late in the session the Government did not give any prominence to rural matters. I draw his attention to the fact that earlier this year there were many rural matters before this Parliament-in fact, so much so that some of my legal friends were complaining that all we seemed to do was talk about rural matters. It is rather interesting that he should mention the protests that confronted the Labor Government when it removed the superphosphate bounty and compared that situation with the lack of protest when the Government is talking about scaling down the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. I suggest the reason for this is that the Labor Party's priorities were completely the reverse of what they should have been. The superphosphate bounty is a much more important issue for rural producers than is the one we are discussing now. He mentioned the projected problem in relation to devaluation. He claimed that devaluation will not make a big difference to rural incomes. I direct his attention to the latest report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, which sets out infinite terms predictions for each rural industry. It shows quite dramatic increases in income for a range of rural industries. 
I stress once again, as I have many times before, that money spent by successive governments is no criterion for assessing the worth of assistance given to rural people. It is the associated actions of governments that make all the difference. Devaluation is one very important aspect that will help rural producers. The Labor Party seemed to suggest that money spent to assist areas in Australian life is the be all and end all of the degree of assistance given.  Senator Gietzelt  suggested that the Government is doing nothing for the rural producer. I direct his attention to the lifting of the wool reserve price and to its automatic adjustment by 17 1/2 per cent when devaluation came about. He said that we were not fulfilling all the recommendations of Industries Assistance Commission reports. I draw his attention and the attention of other honourable senators opposite to the fact that the Labor Government virtually ignored every IAC recommendation with regard to rural industry. 
The Bill extends to the end of this year the present rate of subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers. The present rate is $78.74 per tonne of nitrogen content. It is projected that the 1977 subsidy will be $60 a tonne. This is in line with the IAC recommendation, except that we have delayed for one year the carrying out of the recommendation. I support the Bill with some reluctance because the subsidy provides sectional assistance. It will assist only a few farmers. By comparison, the superphosphate bounty that the Labor Party did away with has a much wider effect. The Labor 
Party supported the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy and, as is well known, eliminated the superphosphate bounty. I suggest its priorities were completely wrong. It was only as recently as April of this year, when we were debating these 2 subsidies, that the Labor Party very strongly supported the continuation of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy and very strongly argued against our action of re-introducing the superphosphate bounty. 
The reason I suggest that nitrogenous fertiliser has a selective benefit is that nitrogeneous fertiliser is not residual. It is used for one year and has no effect in subsequent years. Superphosphate on the other hand is a residual fertiliser and has effect for many years following its application. Nitrogen is only consistently used where yields are fairly assured. I refer in particular to irrigation areas and crops like sugar cane, vegetables, fruit, rice and cotton that are in most cases irrigated. Their yields are consistent, regular and almost predictable. The use of nitrogen results in a measured and calculable increase in production. It is not used to any extent in dry land farming. The bulk of farming in Australia is dry land farming. It is not used because seasonal variations make yields unpredictable. Nitrogen is a very expensive fertiliser and it is too risky to use it in dry land situations. 
There is an alternative to nitrogen in the dry land farm areas. Leguminous plants such as our well known subterranean  clovers  can be used. They can be established in most areas. They in fact do as good a job as nitrogen for far less expense. Of course they can be used for stock fodder as well. In the lighter lands of Western Australia in particular a new development is the use of a 2-year rotation of lupins and a cereal plant. If the weed problems can be solved there will be a tremendous saving of fertiliser. It was also suggested in the IAC report of September 1975 that those who use nitrogen now will continue to use nitrogen, irrespective of the reduction in the amount of the bounty. At this stage I should like to pay a tribute to the Western Australian Department of Agriculture which has done a tremendous amount of work in this area. It has laid out very clearly the optimum uses of nitrogen and superphosphate and it has followed that up with a lot of field work. 
I should like to devote some time to rural assistance generally. I disagree very strongly with the loss of any assistance to rural industries. 
Everyone in Australia, no matter what employment or industry in which he is occupied, receives some assistance from the government, directly or indirectly. It is well acknowledged, certainly in rural circles, that rural producers generally receive less by way of assistance than do most other areas of occupation. In fact, in talking about tariff added costs, the extra costs that accrue to rural producers through the tariff system are higher than what the producers receive in government assistance. This can be well borne out by a publication that was put out back in March of this year by the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council which demonstrated that for those farmers employed in the meat and grain producing areas the extra cost, because of tariff added costs, was of the order of $4,000 per producer per year. It also makes the point that the gross subsidy equivalent of tariffs to those people employed in those industries that are protected by tariffs is of the order of $3,000m a year. I instance just one industry that of course has been in the headlines lately- the shipbuilding industry. The amount of assistance received from tariff protection for people employed in that industry is well known. This applies also to the motor car industry. Each employee there receives virtually a subsidy of $4,000. 
The problem with this sort of distortion is that it creates inefficiencies. It puts resources into inefficient areas and takes them away from efficient areas. I strongly support the work of the IAC in drawing the attention of the public and the government to the inequities that do occur in this area. As a result of this distortion there are also drifts in the work force. I have some information here from the Parliamentary Library which demonstrates that back in 1921- that was a long time ago- there was an equal number of persons employed in primary industry and in secondary industry. Contrary to the information we have received from some manufacturing industries, the secondary industry has increased its work force between 1966 and 1976. It was just a gradual increase. But the work force in primary industry has dropped tremendously. In 1921 it was about half a million and it has reduced quite dramatically in those 10 years between 1966 and 1976. The area that has taken up the slack has been in the service industries in which there has been a very large increase in employment. 
As I said at the beginning of my address, there are matters that have a much greater effect on the well-being of primary producers than does government assistance. I refer in particular to the nitrogen subsidy. Inflation has a damaging effect on primary producers, particularly those who depend almost entirely on exports for their income. In this respect inflation remains the present government's major priority. Certainly the senators on this side of the chamber fully support the Government's actions in this very important sector of industry. 
Some other actions that can certainly ease the plight of rural producers include doing what this Government has done in upgrading the area of rural reconstruction to allow producers to move from one area of production to another with minimum hardship. It is certainly a priority of this Government to do whatever it can to maintain and increase our trade agreements with other countries and to break down trade agreements. Unfortunately Australia is very highly protected as far as imports are concerned, so we cannot really blame other countries if they start raising higher trading barriers against us, but this Government is doing all it can to reduce those trade barriers. A very important step that is being undertaken by many industries- and certainly the Government is doing all it can to assist- is to improve efficiency in areas of handling, processing and freight costs. Much more work needs to be done on these matters and it is being carried out by this Government. 
I would like the Government to draw a greater distinction between that sort of assistance because of a short term aberration in the market and an area that I would like to call welfare. We get a situation in the country in which many people who are receiving what is virtually welfare in a form of assistance are, because of the rate of welfare, persuaded that their particular industry has a future. That tends to fog the producer into believing that his industry has a future. I would like to see a greater distinction made between short term assistance to an industry that has a short-term down turn in its prices and the sort of welfare area that will assist producers to leave agriculture altogether or to go into some other area of production. I support the Bill. 

 -Mr President, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on National Resources for inquiry and report: The Commonwealth's role in the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia's water  resources, having particular regard to (a) the diverse responsibilities of the Commonwealth and the States and (b) the national water policy statement recently endorsed by the Australian Water Resources Council. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport confirm that the combined deficits of the State railways this year will be between $500m and $750m? Does this represent about 7 per cent of total personal income tax collections? Has the Government any projections of what the deficits will be in the next 5 years? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Last year the Western Australian Government introduced a rural housing scheme which provides cheaper and more readily available housing for country people and which brings the financing of country housing more into line with the availability and cost of housing finance in the cities. Is the Minister aware of that major initiative? If so, will he comment on the feasibility of extending that scheme to other States of the Commonwealth? 
I would like first of all to address myself to some remarks made by  Senator Wriedt.  One remark was a mistake of fact and concerned the announcement made some months ago by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that the allocation of roads funds to Western Australia would be the same as it was last year.  Senator Wriedt  also mentioned foreign ownership. The LiberalNational Country Party Government believes in having as much Australian equity as possible in these developments but in view of the magnitude of the figures which  Senator Chaney  quoted, it is impossible for us to finance the amount of development needed from within this country alone.  Senator Wriedt  also mentioned the apparent conflict between  Sir Charles  Court and our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I get the distinct impression when in Western Australia that  Sir Charles  Court is fighting as hard as he can for Western Australia. Of course he is never satisfied. Of course he wants more, and it is natural that there is this conflict. 

 Senator Wriedt mentioned some apparent conflict between the Japanese and the Western Australian Government during a recent visit to that country by  Sir Charles  Court. This is news to me. The only conflict I have heard about is over price of iron ore and in view of the highly inflationary trend which we inherited, price is a matter of serious conflict. I know of no other area of conflict between the Western Australian Government and the Government of Japan. Incidentally, I ask: Who should determine where development will take place in Western Australia, the Japanese Government or the elected Government of Western Australia?  Senator Chaney  in his usual competent way outlined the importance of the development of Western Australia, the Pilbara area, and the North West Shelf to the well being of all Australians. He referred to the reduction in taxation, which everybody wants, and the increased demands on governments. One point that is overlooked by those people who advocate a reduction in taxation is that the Fraser Government has in fact reduced the projected taxation yield to the Commonwealth by the introduction of 100 per cent indexation of taxation. This has reduced the projected taxation yield by $ 1,200m, so we have made a major contribution to tax reduction.  Senator Chaney  also indicated the importance of the Pilbara and the North West Shelf to the growth in earnings of government and it is only by such growth that we can finance the increasing expectations of the Australian people. 
Let me refer for a moment to the export earnings of the project in the north-west of Western Australia. In 1975-76 iron ore represented some $770m in export earnings for Australia. Based on what the Parliamentary Library terms the paramarginal economic reserve, it is estimated that there are approximately 16.2 million million cubic feet of gas reserves in the projected northwest gas field, which  Mr Connor  so successfully held up. The Japanese value that reserve at about $2 per cubic foot which means that the deposit is worth about $32.4 billion. The decision has not been made yet on the amount we intend to export or on the amount we need for local consumption but in passing I point out that the Dongara field which is currently supplying a very large portion of the gas used in the metropolitan area of Perth will run out in a few years and we will need to get this alternative gas supply on flow to Perth quickly. 
I turn briefly to employment. The mining industry in Australia directly employs between 10 500 and 15 500 people. The population of the Pilbara in 1966 was 8900 persons- honourable senators may remember that the  iron  ore development in this area started only in 1966-67-but 10 years later in 1976 there were, according to the latest census, 38 678 persons in the Pilbara. This increased population is due entirely to the development of the iron ore project there. During the same period the eastern gold fields population increased from 35 000 to 42 000 persons so the development of the nickel projects has more than taken up the slack caused by the downturn in gold mining. The Bureau of Mineral Resources estimates that for every person employed directly in the mining industry there are 3 persons employed indirectly in back-up services, so when we talk about increased employment we need to consider the increased employment in those areas which are indirectly dependent on the mining industry. 
The Mt Newman Mining Company Pty Ltd recently wrote a contract which will provide 5000 more jobs in the development process to which  Senator Chaney  referred. There is another company in the process of negotiating in respect of a project which will create 3000 more jobs. The gas project which  Senator Chaney  mentioned will require an expenditure of over $200m just to get the gas to the shore and provide some refining, but no more than that. We hope that the gas will be on shore by 1 983 and that this project will create thousands of jobs. It is well recognised that Western Australia has the best employment record of any State and when a few more projects get under way it will further improve. I would like to cite some figures to support that claim. The Tonkin Labor Government was in power in Western Australia until March 1974 and in the March quarter the Western Australian unemployment figure was significantly higher than the Australian average. That situation continued for the June 1974 quarter but in every quarter since December 1974 to the present day there has been a significant reduction in unemployment in the State. The unemployment figure in Western Australia is now significantly lower than the national average. 
I should like also to mention immigration. We agree that immigration is important in many ways for Australia. It improves our cultural relations with other countries and allows us to understand them better. It also provides expertise that is not available in Australia. Western Australia has 8 per cent of the Australian population, and since 1966 has consistently absorbed almost 13 per cent of the migrant intake. Also people have moved from other States in Australia to Western Australia. So one can see the importance of the big projects to Western Australia. I have mentioned the new project at Mt Newman. There is the huge Alwest project in Wagerup which was announced by the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, in November. The Yeelirrie uranium deposits will be of great significance if we decide to export uranium. The significance of Yeelirrie is that it is in an extremely remote area of Australia. It is right away from any major centre of population. If that is considered important, the development will make Yeelirrie most significant. 
I really do not have to say that there are problems in the Pilbara. Inflation, of course, is a great problem all over Australia and no less so than in the Pilbara. In response to  Senator Wriedt  's point I mentioned that the cost of production is an extremely important factor in the production of iron ore in this area, so inflation has an important effect I should like to quote from the Parliamentary  Hansard  of Western Australia of 1974.  Mr Jamieson,  the Australian Labor Party Leader, said: 
I suggest there is nothing wrong in letting inflation run the full cycle. I feel we do more harm to the community if we run in and try to stop inflation . . . so we must let inflation run: it has never killed anybody. 
He has not really changed his mind because on 4 August 1976 he said: 
The problem of inflation cannot be cured locally. A few million dollars floating around in Australia will not make one bit of difference to the economy. 
I can assure  Mr Jamieson  and the Labor Party that this Government is concerned about inflation and we are doing all we can to correct it. In the Pilbara the area of communications, radio, television and telephone facilities, and roads are inadequate. There is no doubt about that, but they are being improved. Television is available now to most people in the Pilbara. Housing is of a high standard for those who work in the Pilbara. Telephone services are still inadequate but are being improved, and the Federal Government has allocated quite a large amount of money to complete the sealing of the highway right around the west coast of Australia. 
I should like to mention briefly one more point- this is an area of importance to the people in Port Hedland- that is, the air service between Port Hedland and Bali. It has been the subject of intense negotiation between the State Government and the Commonwealth Government. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie, Mick Cotter, has worked very hard in this area and so has Brian Sodeman, the member for the Pilbara in the Western Australia Legislative Assembly. Just recently it was announced that charter flights will be permitted from Port Hedland to Bali. It must be remembered by honourable senators that Bali is just as close to Port Hedland as is Perth. This is an important issue to the people. This announcement was received with great glee in that area. In conclusion, I should like to say how important it is for the people of Western Australia to re-elect the Court Government to ensure that the development in this important area continues in the way we think it should. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for 
Environment, Housing and Community Development.  Mr Burke  of the Western Australia Labor Party has suggested that housing commission rents will rise by 125 per cent when the present Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement is re-negotiated. This has created quite a bit of consternation in Western Australia. Will the Minister comment on the validity of that suggestion? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice on 2 December 1976: 
As a result of the Government's decision to extend free telephone installation from 8 km from the exchange to 12 km from the exchange, can the Minister give the Senate some indication of when the resulting backlog of construction work will be completed? The conversion of many manual exchanges to automatic depends to a large degree on this matter. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Commonwealth Employment Service does not seem to have the confidence of many employers with regard to the ability of the CES to find them suitable employees. Does the Government have any plans to improve the situation? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I have seen reports of a new meat tenderising process recently developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Can the Minister give the Senate some details of the process and its implications to meat producers? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that journals of trade unions receive a much more favourable postage rate in the registered publications service than do journals of employer organisations, including farmers' organisations? Can the Minister take steps to correct this anomaly? 
I ask a question of  Senator Cotton  as Minister representing the Treasurer. I noticed in the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 10 March that the Treasurer answered a question from  Mr Bungey,  the honourable member for Canning, regarding the income equalisation deposit scheme. The Treasurer said that $3 1.3m in deposits was lodged by the end of January which qualified for deductions in the 1975-76 income tax assessments. He further gave the breakup among the States. Will the Minister answer the following questions: 1. How many taxpayers in each State lodged deposits? 2. How many of those taxpayers in each State made application for withdrawal under the provisions of the Act? 3. What is the total amount requested for withdrawal in each State? 4. How many applications for withdrawal in each State have been, or are likely to be, successful? 5. What amount of money has been, or is likely to be, returned to depositors in each State under the withdrawal provisions of the Act? 
I should like to support the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  in this debate and to reject the arguments put up by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  and by  Senator Sibraa.  If we carry  Senator Sibraa  's reasoning further I suppose we would not have any road traffic rules. As we know, they are all broken, but that does not mean that we should not have any road traffic rules. I suggest that if  Senator Wriedt  's arguments are supported in this place we should also remove the word 'debate' from considerations in this chamber. I feel very strongly about this issue. One of the things that I greatly admire about the Senate is the crossfire within the chamber, which is so adequately called an intimate chamber. 
One of the best examples I can give of that is to outline the events which occurred when I attended the other place last August during the delivery of a speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he led for the Opposition in the debate on the Budget. It was rather an hilarious experience. Every word in that speech was read. About half the Opposition was represented in the Chamber. During the delivery of this speech, which went on for some 1 V4 hours or 1% hours, a very large percentage of the Opposition members fell asleep. I think the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  led the way and went over and shook the shadow Minister for Transport and woke him up. Throughout that  VA  hours the Opposition members had to be kept awake during their Leader's speech. We do not want to see that occur in this place. 
I strongly support the point made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. However, while  Senator Cavanagh  was speaking he did remind me of one point that has not been raised by  Senator Wriedt  or by his supporters and that I think could be used as an argument against what I am trying to say, that is, that we may have shorter speeches if they are read.  Senator Cavanagh  has a tremendous ability to make a good speech but he also makes a very long speech. I suggest that if he did more preparation and read them out they would be quite a lot shorter. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I understand that a higher rebate can be charged to Medibank if a patient consults a doctor after normal visiting hours. Does the Government lay down what constitutes normal visiting hours, and does the Government place limits on the excess rebate that can be charged? Is any penalty or restriction placed by Medibank on patients unnecessarily visiting doctors outside normal visiting hours? 
I support these 3 Bills which we are debating cognately. They are the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill. The first Bill is the substance of this debate, the other two merely dealing with machinery matters. I address myself to some of the matters raised by  Senator Gietzelt.  It is interesting that although in response to an interjection by  Senator Wright  he said he would deal with the union matter later in his address, he did not deal with it at all despite the fact that this must be a significant factor in the costs faced by the apple and pear producers in Australia. The Government rejects completely the amendment which was moved by  Senator Gietzelt,  as it did in the other place. It is complete hypocrisy to suggest that the Government is doing nothing. Most of the problems in the industry were created by the previous Government and I refer in particular to inflation which, I point out for the benefit of Opposition senators, in 1975 in respect of rural properties was double the general rate of inflation. During that year the general rate of inflation was about 16 per cent while the cost of rural production rose by nearly 30 per cent. This is one of the largest problems being faced by rural producers. 
The freight equalisation scheme has been of immense benefit to Tasmanian apple producers. It was an initiative of this Government. The relaxation of the rural reconstruction scheme and the widening of eligibility for the unemployment benefit to cover rural producers have helped many apple producers.  Senator Gietzelt  referred to the lack of support by some State Governments in the subsidising of apple production. He said that the main reason he supported that attitude was that State taxpayers would be supporting an industry that concerns only a small number of producers. What he was really suggesting was that all taxpayers in Australia should contribute to the problems in those States. He also suggested that there is a great need for diversification and mentioned my own State of Western Australia where apparently he had trouble persuading the Western Australian 
Apple and Pear Corporation to agree to diversification or to an increase in the number of exporters. I am very proud of the record of the Western Australian Apple and Pear Corporation in diversifying its markets and I will demonstrate later in my address the extent to which our Corporation has managed to achieve this diversification of markets. 
What we are debating here is a proposal for a maximum price of $2 a box of apples up to 2 million boxes sold at risk in markets in Europe, including the United Kingdom, and a maximum subsidy in relation to pears of 80 cents a box up to 1.4 million boxes for sale at risk in markets in Europe and the United States. The meaning of the term 'at risk' probably is apparent to all honourable senators. At risk sales constitute about 75 per cent of our export apple sales. To put things in perspective, apple production in Australia is averaging 21 million boxes a year, which represents about 5 per cent to 6 per cent of the gross value of our rural production. Exports, which account for about 20 per cent of our total apple production in Australia, represent about 1 per cent of the value of our rural exports. Tasmania, which is our largest apple producing State, produces about one-third of our total production, but because of its small population it exports two-thirds of its total production and provides 50 per cent of Australia's export production. 
In my State of Western Australia, the apples grown represent only one-seventh of the Australian apple production. Western Australia also has a small population and exports about half its domestic production, which accounts for slightly less than one-third of the total Australian exports. I mentioned earlier that Western Australia has been very successful in diversifying its markets. The fact that Australia would encounter trouble in the marketing of apples in the European Economic Community must have been obvious to most people many years ago. I have before me some figures which show that sales of Western Australian apples to the United Kingdom in 1975 amounted to 860 000 bushels. In 1976 they amounted to 720 000 bushels, and it is estimated that in 1977 our exports to the United Kingdom will show a drop to about 160 000 bushels. The position in Western Australia is not due entirely to diversification. Unfortunately, Western Australian producers suffered a rather calamitous loss of production through hail. It is forecast that the Western Australian production will drop from its level of 2.54 million bushels last year to 1.7 million bushels this year. This is due entirely to the hail problem. 
Apple exports from Western Australia, which come under the heading of 'other markets', have remained steady for the last 3 or 4 years at 340 000 bushels. In particular, we have managed to build up a very good market in the Gulf countries. Exports to those countries have increased from 14 000 bushels in 1973 to 93 000 bushels in 1 974. That represents a very dramatic increase. In 1975, 122 000 bushels were exported to the Gulf countries, and in 1976 we exported 127 000 bushels to those countries. It is estimated that from the current harvest we will export 126 000 bushels to the Gulf countries. I wish to mention one of the lesser acknowledged problems concerning the hail damage that was suffered by the Western Australian producers this year. Because of the widespread effect of the hail, the cost of picking the fruit has been a great deal higher. The rejection rate can be as high as 60 per cent or 70 per cent and this adds tremendously to the cost of picking the apples. 
There is no denying that many apple and pear producers in Australia are in tragic circumstances. Fortunately for the Western Australian producers, most of them are diversified. Their apple and pear production is sometimes a sideline. Sometimes it is the major area of production but very seldom is it the only area of production for those producers. Tasmanian producers are not as well situated in this regard because for many of them apple production is the only source of income. I support the measures which the Government is introducing as interim measures.  Senator Gietzelt  made great play of the forward planning that is needed in the industry. It is not only a government responsibility; it is also an industry responsibility. As I said before, it must have been obvious to all apple producers for many years that they would be faced with the problems they are facing now. I am a great supporter of short term subsidies to overcome short term aberrations in a market or to allow producers to adjust to a new situation. I am not a supporter of long term subsidies to any industry. 
We need a local apple and pear industry in Australia. Of course, it must be obvious to all honourable senators that this local production is doing quite well without any subsidy whatsoever, with the exception of the freight equalisation payment to the Tasmanian growers. I strongly urge the industry to investigate alternative markets. However, there is a particular problem in regard to Japan which could take a very large amount of Australian apples. Unfortunately, the apple production in some States of Australia is infected with codlin-moth particularly your State of South Australia,  Mr President.  Also, the Western Australian crop in particular is affected by fruit fly. The Japanese will not accept fruit from any State in Australia if one State has either of those 2 problems. I believe that our Government is supporting the carrying out of a great deal of work in investigating methods to reduce the incidence of these 2 problems. But probably the best solution will be the introduction of some method of fumigation of the apple itself to encourage the Japanese to accept this fruit. As I said before, the Gulf countries will take more and more apples. This is one example of an area to which we can diversify our exports. 
In conversation with one of the leading exporters in Western Australia, he pointed out to me that there was a problem last year with the standard of packing of some of the Tasmanian apples that were sent to the United Kingdom. This was one reason why the Australian exports to the U.K. were very badly priced. We did not receive anywhere near the price for our apples that some other countries received for their apples. It is well recognised that one of the greatest problems in the apple industry is that it is through necessity a labour intensive one. Because of this, the industry faces more costs than most other industries. I have mentioned inflation. It creates a particular problem in respect to apples and pears over and above the problems it creates in respect of most other rural products. This is because of the high labour content in the industry. Also, the freight costs are increasing all the time. For example, it cost $4.88 to ship a case of apples from Western Australia in 1976. In 1977 it is expected to cost $5.90 a case. The handling costs are astronomical and getting higher. Many of the problems arise from the costs on the wharf. There are many problems to be solved on the wharf in the handling of fruit. I could give examples of that. Mechanisation is one way that many rural industries have overcome their problems. This is not so relevant for the fruit industry. But it is experimenting with growing apple trees in the form of a hedge which makes handling, picking and pruning much easier. This is one example of how costs could be reduced. 
Another important area must be the building up of the local market. The local market has declined gradually over the years. I have in front of me the Bureau of Agricultural Economics figures which indicate that in 1971-72 local sales reached the peak of about 42.4 kilograms per head of population. It is projected that in 1974-75 local consumption would have fallen to 33.2 kilograms per head. I think it is important that the people responsible- the industry itself and the Government- should assist in this area to build up local sales. It is critical. We must build up our local markets as we have done with other rural products. I do not think anybody would disagree that the export market prospects for Australian fruit, in particular apples and pears, are not good. The main reason is that traditionally we have depended on the United Kingdom market. Because of the United Kingdom's entry into the European Economic Community that market is not so readily available to us now. 
Another important reason why we are not getting as much fruit into the United Kingdom now, is that in recent years controlled atmosphere storage has been developed. Instead of the United Kingdom's local production being available purely seasonally the local produce can be fed onto the market 12 months of the year. The market is not now available to the traditional suppliers of apples, in particular, and pears to the United Kingdom. I refer to Australia, South Africa and New Zealand which are all in the southern hemisphere. Formerly we could send supplies to the United Kingdom during its off season. South Africa, New Zealand and Argentina have increased their production. Argentina has almost doubled its export production in the last 2 years. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I will address myself to the area of assistance generally. I would like to quote from the Industries Assistance Commission's report dated 16 January 1976 which is headed  Fruitgrowing Part A: Fruitgrowing Reconstruction.  I refer to the paragraph on page 4 which reads: 
Costs of assistance are also taken into consideration. More help can be given to the people concerned at much less cost to the nation if it is not given by way of assistance to production. The futility of product based support as an adjustment measure is illustrated by a Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimate that in 1973-74, despite direct production subsidies averaging more than $14,000 per grower, net farm incomes of Tasmanian apple producers averaged less than $6,000. Assistance to growers was absorbed not only by production costs but also by costs of marketing and low export returns. Personal assistance designed to help people to adjust to changed circumstances is considered to be far more efficient. Such assistance can be provided by increasing the options available both for people who decide to stay on and those who decide to leave. 
That is rather an astronomical figure. The report is saying that the taxpayers of Australia are contributing $14,000 to each grower in Tasmania to help him to survive. In fact he is receiving only $6,000 of that amount. The problem with production subsidies is that there are some efficient producers and some inefficient producers. Many of the more efficient producers are actually encouraged to increase their production if the subsidy is high enough. This tends to disguise the true position of the industry and gives the producers a false sense of security. It could be much kinder to make them realise that their industry is in trouble and that they should be assisted to leave that industry. 
I think that the people of Australia should be grateful to the Industries Assistance Commission for presenting these sort of factors before them. Rural subsidies can be seen in the Budget. All governments are accused by others unfairly of assisting the rural sector. The largest area of assistance given to people in Australia is given in the form of tariffs. They are a hidden factor; they do not appear in budgets. It takes organisations like the Industries Assistance Commission to bring these things out into the open. I strongly urge the Government, if it can find a way of doing so, to evaluate regularly the effects of tariffs on the people who work in the industries affected. A lot of publicity has been given in the last few months on the assistance given by way of tariffs to the shipbuilding industry. This is one example; I could give many others. 
I am saying that I support the legislation as a short term measure. I also support the IAC recommendation that there should be a very serious look at the industry by the industry itself and by the Government. I believe this is happening at the moment. As I said before, the position must have been obvious to all producers and to the previous Government. Very little was done by the previous Government. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With regard to the Income Equalisation Deposit scheme, how many applications for withdrawal, in each State, have been, or are likely to be, successful. 
What amount of money has been, or is likely to be, returned to depositors in each State, under the withdrawal provisions of the Act. 
In the absence of  Senator Cotton,  I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. My question relates to the income equalisation deposit scheme. From the answer I received yesterday to a question upon notice I am pleased to note that every application for withdrawal that has been processed by the  deputy  commissioner to 18 March has been successful. Would the Minister be prepared to consider changes to two details of the scheme; firstly, to have the benefits of the scheme extended to all taxpayers and, secondly, to change the method of calculating interest on the deposits so that they become more attractive to depositors on a low rate of tax and less attractive than the 162/3 per cent benefit that can be obtained by some taxpayers? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  I am concerned at the apparent lack of security arrangements existing at present in Parliament House. Last week during the Inter-Parliamentary Union meetings held at Parliament House people with direct business in Parliament House were issued with special passes to allow them to gain entrance. Would you,  Mr President,  give consideration to implementing the use of passes to ensure that the security arrangements in Parliament House can be improved? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry relates to a Press release issued yesterday by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  concerning the abolition of the Australian Meat Board and the formation of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. Producer and exporter groups in Western Australia have already expressed reservations to me about the structure and function of the new corporation- the producers because they see themselves losing control of their own industry, and the exporters because of what they see as inadequate representation on the Corporation. Will the Minister comment on these reservations? 
-I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources on its inquiry into solar energy. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
My question, which relates to the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication program, is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface my question by saying that our exports of meat, particularly to the United States, are likely to be at risk if these 2 cattle diseases are not eradicated by 1984 when the United States is expected to be free of them. Will the Minister draw to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry the importance of maintaining an adequate level of funding to allow the States to continue the eradication program? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, by referring to figures supplied to me by the Australian Wool Corporation. These figures show that the cost of moving wool from the sheep's back to an overseas woollen mill has risen from 46.9c per kilogram greasy in November 1973 to 74c in March 1976. An index of prices paid by farmers, using 1972-73 as a base of 100, shows that for the December 1976 quarter wages were 2 10, services/overheads 213, equipment/supplies 191, and market expenses 175, giving an average of 203. These figures graphically illustrate the problems being faced by this great industry. What hope can we give wool producers, particularly those who are unable to diversify into other areas of production? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: What restrictions does the Postal and Telecommunications Department place on local groups in the country who wish to build equipment to improve their television reception? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Because of the importance of the fishing industry to Western Australia, and because of the impending extension of Australian fishing limits, I ask: What progress is being made with regard to the Maritime College? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Transport indicate what response the Government is obtaining to its desire to have regional airfields controlled by local government authorities? 
Due to the restriction on time allowed for this debate, I will confine my remarks to what I consider to be the pertinent points in the Bills.  Senator Wriedt  made what was for him a rather loose speech. It definitely was not up to his normal standards. I intend to refer to 3 matters which he discussed. He talked about the protest yesterday as if it is some rather unique function that has happened only since this Government returned to office. He has a very short memory. If he lent his mind to the matter no doubt he would recall the tremendous amount of protest all over Australia from the rural section during the region of the Labor Government. He talks about ministerial control and attempts to assert that this new Bill allows the Minister to impose more control. In fact, as I will demonstrate later, the Minister will be exerting less control over the direct functions of the new corporation. He referred also rather loosely to the lack of control over trade within Australia. He, above all, should know that this Government has no power whatsoever to legislate in that area. 
There has been general dissatisfaction with the present Meat Board in 2 areas. The first is the lack of communication between producers and the Board itself. I agree with that criticism. I think that it is quite a valid criticism to make. The second general criticism is that meat prices are too low. I suggest that that is quite an unfair criticism of the present Meat Board. Australia is the largest exporter of meat in the world. The percentage of meat that is exported is growing. The numbers of cattle in Australia are growing alarmingly. An Australian marketing board cannot be expected to have more than a slight influence on the price that we receive overseas. There was general agreement that the present Meat Board needs to be changed. In passing I would like to pay tribute to the present Board. There are many fine people on that Board. They have done their very best within the restrictions placed upon them and limited by the terms of reference under which they have to operate. They have done a first-class job. In particular I wish to pay tribute to  Mr Paddy  Dempster of Western Australia, a grower-member, who has been on that Board for many years. 
Leading up to the introduction of this legislation, there were many months of consultations with grower organisations and with other interested groups. In fact, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has stated that something like 200 representations were made to him. Together with  Senator Lewis  and  Senator 
Archer, who both strongly support this legislation, I am a member of the Government Parties back bench rural committee. The committee received about the same number of representations as the Minister received. It is rather interesting, in the light of the protest yesterday, to consider the 2 things that the producers say that they want. Firstly, they want the Board to appoint their nominees to the Board. They have that now. Secondly, they want a majority membership of the Board. They have that now. Yet they say that the present Board is not functioning properly. 
Briefly, I intend to underline some of the differences between the new corporation and the present Board. The new corporation is to have much wider powers, particularly over livestock exports. I will come back to that later. It will have the power to act independently of the Ministerthis underlines the statement which was made by  Senator Wriedt-  within guidelines established by the Corporation in consultation with the Minister. So provided it works within those guidelines it is quite entitled to act completely independently of ministerial control. The Corporation has much wider trading powers, and these will be assisted by its right to borrow money. The only restriction on its power to borrow money is that any borrowing must be approved by the Treasurer, and that is a reasonable restriction. It also will have much wider powers over the control of shipping, and this too is quite important. 
The present Board has a membership of ten, comprising 6 producers, 2 representatives of processors and 2 of exporters. The new Corporation is designed to have a membership of nine, comprising 4 producer representatives, one representative of processors and exporters, one Government nominee, 2 people with special qualifications and one  chairman. Senator Wriedt  pointed out that its structure is identical with the structure of the Australian Wool Corporation which is recognised by all wool growers as contributing a great deal to the wool industry. 
One very important feature of this legislation is the formation of consultative groups which will play a large role in communications between growers, exporters, manufacturers and the Corporation. It will advise the Corporation on day to day problems in the industry. Another quite important role will be to nominate new members of the Corporation. The Minister has the right to select names from a panel submitted by the producer consultative group. The formation of the consultative groups will be carried out by regulation in the short term, but it is expected that this will be confirmed by legislation at a later date. I urge the Minister to consider having Western Australia represented by 3 members on the consultative groups and make a special plea that one of the grower representatives on the Corporation should be from Western Australia. The meat industry in Western Australia has some unique problems. It is a vast State, and there are different problems in different parts of the State. For instance, the Kimberleys in the north has different problems from those of the great southern area where the bulk of the cattle are found. The great southern area has mostly mixed farming. Many farmers in this area run only cattle, but the majority have a mixture of cattle and other stock. Western Australia supplies just on 75 per cent of live sheep exports, and for this reason alone it should have ample representation on the Corporation and on the consultative groups. 
The formation of the consultative groups is still being hotly debated, but I recommend very strongly to the grower organisations that they bend their minds to this problem. The method of election or appointment has still not been decided, and I think it is terribly important that it be determined. It has been suggested by the Minister that the Producer Consultative Group be elected by a poll of producers. I ask the Minister to reconsider that suggestion, for 3 reasons. Firstly, the cost of establishing a list of producers and of voting is astronomical. Secondly, the timing will create problems because it is recognised in the legislation that the two Consultative Groups have to be formed and be functioning before the Corporation can be formed. The other reason is a little more difficult to explain. In Australia we have a very strong, well organised group of producer organisations. If the organisations were entitled to nominate members to the consultative group they could be used as a forum to communicate with growers. 
In summary I recommend that the Minister should give thought to the possibility of using the present organisations as a forum to nominate members to the consultative group. I have seen this process in action in New Zealand. Members of the meat board and the wool board in New Zealand are elected in this way. It can probably be described as an electoral college system. It works very well there. It must be remembered that New Zealand has only one grower organisation. If the Minister and the Government persevere with the election of the consultative group several criteria must be considered. First of all, we must not have this consultative group elected, for instance, by Victorian dairy farmers, Western 
Australian wheat producers and Queensland sugar producers. This would happen if every person who is connected with the raising of cows or sheep had a vote for this consultative group. 1 am saying that the minimum stock numbers requirement must be sufficiently high to make sure that the genuine meat producers elect their own consultative group. I strongly recommend multiple voting for this group so that the meat producers themselves are the people who elect their own consultative group. 
In the brief time left to me in this debate I urge the new Corporation, when it is formed, to proceed with all haste in the implementation of meat classification. This will be a important function of the Corporation. It will improve the knowledge of the producers. It will tell them exactly the sort of stock that the consumer requires. Another important function of this new Corporation will be to try to reduce costs. Costs are one of the greatest problems in the whole of the rural area. A reduction in inflation will help overcome those problems. If the Corporation can initiate moves to reduce the handling costs- the slaughter costs, the processing costs and the freight costs- it will contribute a great deal to the industry. I also urge the Corporation, when dealing with the subject of live sheep exports, to consult with the State governments and with the State Ministers for Agriculture. We have reached, after painful negotiations, an understanding with the various unions involved in Western Australia regarding this important trade. I urge the new Corporation, when it becomes functional, to take cognisance of and consult very closely with State governments on this matter. I wish the new Corporation well. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is the Government considering the establishment of an accreditation body for translators and interpreters? If so, can the Minister give some indication of when such a body will be established? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) How many homes in Western Australia are currently being financed through the Aboriginal Loans Commission. 
How many homes in Australia are currently being financed through the Aboriginal Loans Commission. 
How many owners in Western Australia, being financed through the Aboriginal Loans Commission, are behind in their loan repayments. 
How many such new loans were approved in Western Australia in 1976. 
How many loan applications are on the waiting list of the Commission of Western Australia. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, by pointing out that the Senate would be well aware of the importance of a quarantine service to. the Australian livestock industry. Can the Minister indicate to the Senate whether the imminent inquiry into the Toomer affair will be sufficiently wide to look at the general efficiency of our quarantine service? 
My remarks will be brief, to the point and fairly simple. I should like to congratulate  Senator Young  on the excellent coverage that he gave to the main arguments and on the information that he provided to the Senate about why he supported the mining and exporting of uranium. I should like to indicate why I agree with the points made by  Senator Young. 
We do not need uranium ourselves, but that is not the issue. Waste disposal is not the issue either. That is not our problem; it is the problems of the countries that are using uranium. If we want to come to some arrangement in the future about the disposal of waste that is another issue. It is not the issue at the moment. Other countries have decided to use uranium, whether for good or for bad, but that is not Australia's decision; it is the decision of those other countries. They have made their decision. It is a moral decision and an economic decision. But it is their decision; it is not our decision. They have made the decision in order to maintain their living standards. 

 Senator Young correctly pointed to the fact that many other countries are very short of energy. Australia is not in that position and, as I said earlier, is not seeking to use uranium itself. The countries that have decided to use uranium will continue to use it whether or not Australia exports it. If we refuse to export uranium those countries will still get uranium. They have committed themselves to producing electricity from uranium. They will get that uranium from any one of a number of countries which have vast quantities of uranium. The difference between our uranium and that of other countries is that ours will be cheaper. As  Senator Melzer  pointed out, Australia's uranium will be mined on the surface and the mines will not be deep. The fact is that whether or not we export uranium those countries will still use exactly the same amount of uranium and will produce exactly the same amount of waste. As I said earlier, Australia probably has the cheapest uranium in the world. That is a very good reason why the world wants it. Our Prime Minister, Malcolm Fraser, has laid down safeguards in relation to uranium. We have absolutely no power to enforce those safeguards if we do not export uranium, but we have some power if we export it. We could impose very rigid conditions on those countries that wish to import our uranium, with the threat that if they did not meet those conditions we would refuse to export uranium to them. 
This is one thing that we will have to ensure before we write any agreements with those countries. There is no guarantee that they will honour the agreements. At least we can be more certain than any other country that those agreements will be abided by. 
Because we have the cheapest uranium in the world. They want our uranium more than any other uranium. If we refuse to sell it to them, that will add tremendously to their costs. 
Uranium is probably the safest mineral to mine. It is far safer than copper and lead. Unlike those two minerals, it has no residual effect. It is easily detectable and easily cured. It is so safe that even Premier Don Dunstan wants to set up an enrichment plant in South Australia. 
-He still does. I would like to point out the benefits that will accrue to Australia. According to the first Fox report, by 1995 about 10 000 extra jobs will be created in Australia. I know that is of no interest to the Opposition, but it is definitely of interest to the Government. It will create annual export earnings for this country of about $ 1,200m. A very reputable firm of consultants, W. D. Scott and Co, has done a projection which showed that by 1995 our export earnings from uranium will be about the same as our export earnings from wheat, about the same as our export earnings from wool, about half the value of our export earnings from coal, about two-thirds of our export earnings from iron, more than our export earnings from sugar and more than our export earnings from beef. That puts the matter in perspective. 
Many people have a genuine fear of uranium, and I respect that fear. Uranium and its byproducts can be some of the most dangerous products that we know, but there are many other dangerous products. If they are handled properly, there are no deleterious results. I suspect that the opponents of the mining and exporting of uranium have other motives. I think those motives are rather suspicious. 
-The Labor Party certainly will not win elections by opposing the exporting of uranium, as I will demonstrate later. The Labor Party wants Australian living standards to decline because it knows that socialism can survive only in the situation of a poor standard of living. The Labor Party wants the countries in the Western world which I hope will be our potential customers to have problems. Do we hear protests when Russia accelerates tremendously its use of uranium? There are no protests at all. It is well recognised that Russia's safeguards in respect of the use of uranium are minimal. 
Western Australia has a potential mine at Yeelirrie, which is controlled by the Western Mining Corporation Ltd and which has the support of the Western Australian Government. It is ready to go and will present far fewer problems than some of the sites in the Northern Territory.  Senator Melzer  quoted some figures that purported to support what she claimed was a fact, that the majority of Australian people are against the mining and exporting of uranium. She was very selective. Let me be selective, so selective that I quote from the headlines of the  Kalgoorlie Miner.  It is not reputed to be a strong right wing paper, quite the reverse. This copy was provided to me by  Senator Chaney  who visited Kalgoolie recently to discuss this problem with many of the people there. The paper ran a poll. The headlines were: 
The Goldfields' Vote: 'Yes' for Uranium. 
The article stated: 
The majority of people in the Goldfields want uranium mining in Australia, including Yeelirrie, and they want a pilot plant in Kalgoorlie Boulder . . . 
Some detailed questions were asked in the poll. The first question was: 
Some Australian uranium should be mined. 
A very large majority said yes. The second question was: 
Uranium should be mined at Yeelirrie. 
Remember that Yeelirrie is just a few hundred miles north of Kalgoorlie. A very large number were in support of the yes case. The third question was: 
Kalgoorlie should have a uranium plant. 
Remember these people live in Kalgoorlie. A large majority were in favour. Another question was: 
We need the money from uranium. 
The answer was yes. Another question was: 
Uranium is the energy source of the future. 
A very large majority were in favour. Another question was: 
Australia can influence world opinion. 
A very large number of people said yes. This poll was carried out by a very well known left wing newspaper in Western Australia. 
It was dated 16 August 1 977, a very recent publication. 
-At the last State election a Labor candidate was returned in each electorate in the Kalgoorlie area.  Senator Melzer  was selective when she quoted from the  Herald.  Can I also be selective and quote from the  Age.  I refer to the article headed 'Uranium's critical mass: The unions'. The sub-heading is 'The movement is itself divided- even two-faced'. The article refers to  Mr Isaacs,  the leader of the Labor Party in the Northern Territory. The article states: 
But  Mr Isaacs  did say that if Labor won the Assembly election last Saturday, the party would co-operate with the Federal Government if it decided to go ahead with uranium development . . . 
A Labor majority in the Assembly would co-operate with the Federal Government . . . 
He is well known amongst the Labor Party as the Secretary of the influential North Australian Workers Union. The article refers to  Mr Ray  Hogan, the State Secretary of the Miscellaneous Workers Union. The article states: 
Yet this vehemently anti-uranium union of 95 000 has been discussing with executives of Peko Mines Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Co. the question of exclusive rights to cover all workers involved in the mining and processing of uranium in the Northern Territory. 
These two companies are joint partners with the Federal Government in the Ranger Uranium Project and are strong supporters of the pro-uranium lobby, the Uranium Producers' Forum. 
That union is arguing in favour of uranium mining. The Miscellaneous Workers Union and its Federal Secretary,  Mr Ray  Gietzelt, a name that is very familiar to us, are quoted as saying: 
But if mining of uranium is to take place in the Northern Territory, it will be MWU members who mine it . . . 
The bitterest struggle involving unions and uranium may not be aimed at keeping the stuff in the ground. It could well be over who should have the privilege of digging it up. 
-It certainly has. I repeat the points I made at the beginning because I think they are relevant and completely different to the irrelevant arguments of the Opposition. Firstly, the argument is not whether we will use uranium. That is not the issue. Secondly, waste disposal is not the issue. That is not our problem. It may be our problem later but that is a different subject. Thirdly, although the decision to use uranium is a moral and an economic one, it is not our moral and economic decision; it is the decision of the countries which are committed to the use of uranium. 
Will the Minister for Science comment on recent speculation that our claim to our territory in the Antarctic may not be recognised by other countries unless we increase the level of scientific and exploratory effort in that area? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, relates to the Women's Advisory Body Working Party. I preface it by pointing out that the Working Party has received some 440 submissions from organisations and individuals in regard to its terms of reference which read: 
To investigate and make recommendations on the role, representation and Function of a possible National Women's Advisory Body. 
A reading of the Working Party's June newsletter seems to indicate that it has exceeded its terms of reference. I ask: Will the Government make provision for those organisations and individuals which abided by the terms of reference to make further submissions on issues they feel need attention? Will the Government ensure that the Working Party does not usurp the position of the proposed National Women's Advisory Body? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. In view of the High Court decision last week concerning the wreck of the  Gilt Dragon  and the reported subsequent proclamation of Commonwealth legislation, can the Minister indicate to the Senate the present position with regard to the protection of the  Gilt Dragon  and other ancient shipwrecks off the Western Australian coast? 
I direct my question either to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources or the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Government prepared to investigate the hardship faced by some fuel retailers in Perth and other capital cities where the wholesale price of fuel charged to them is higher than the retail price charged by other retailers? 
-Will the Minister representing the Treasurer explain to the Senate the details of the recently announced changes to the tax averaging provisions? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Was it the Government's intention to include trucks with a load capacity of one tonne in provisions of the 40 per cent investment allowance; if so, is the Treasurer aware that most of the popular tray top trucks with a load capacity of one tonne do not qualify for the 40 per cent investment allowance, unless they are fitted with aluminium bodies. 
Is the Treasurer aware that aluminium bodies are not manufactured in Western Australia. 
Is aluminium unsuitable for some purposes. 
Did many vehicle dealers sell trucks on the mistaken expectation that they would qualify for the 40 per cent investment allowance. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources and relates to the report entitled  Solar Energy  presented to the Senate in 
May this year. The main recommendation contained in that report states: 
That the Commonwealth Government establish a statutory body, the Australian Energy Commission, to have overall responsibility for developing and co-ordinating a long term Australian Energy policy. ... It is envisaged that the Australian Energy Commission would be advised by an Australian Energy Advisory Committee, which would provide advice on scientific and economic matters relating to an overall energy policy. 
Since the report was presented the Government has established the National Energy Advisory Committee. Because the major portion of solar research funding is not necessarily directed towards national priorities and because, in my opinion, a disproportionately large amount of research funding is directed towards atomic energy research, I ask: Has the Government considered this aspect of the report? Is the Government planning to establish an Australian energy commission? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and follows the question asked by  Senator Brown.  I refer to the matter of nuclear waste disposal, a matter of concern to us all, and in particular to an article in this morning's  Age  written by John Stephen. I ask: Is it true to say that countries committed to the use of uranium will produce the same amount of waste whether we export uranium to them or not? Secondly, did the Prime Minister announce that nuclear waste from other countries would not be brought to Australia? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I understand that the Minister received a delegation of representatives of the wool textile industry this morning. I further understand that the delegation sought a small loan from the Government to finance an investigation into the feasibility of establishing an integrated wool textile industry in Australia. Will the Minister comment on the possibility of such an industry being established in Australia? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It follows on the question asked by  Senator Tehan  about fuel equalisation and I ask it bearing in mind that this Government desires to treat all Australians as equitably as possible. I relate my question also to another matter which disadvantages residents in remote areas, namely, the imposition of stamp duty. The disadvantage is that stamp duty is paid on the cost of freight which adds considerably to the price of articles in remote areas. Will the Minister undertake to consider this matter? 
After that contribution from  Senator Walsh,  one would be surprised to be reminded that we are discussing two roads Bills. The honourable senator entertained us, as usual, with some sort of speech that was completely bereft of any arguments on the Bill itself. This is typical. He tends to hide any ability he has with abuse, as usual. I should like firstly to refer to the contribution by  Senator Keeffe  earlier in this debate. He quite rightly pointed to the fuel conservation difficulty which is faced by this nation. I remind him of a report that was placed on his desk and also the desks of the other members of Parliament by the National Energy Advisory Committee. This Committee was established by this Government earlier this year. It has the role of recommending to the Government an energy policy. The Committee has not been functioning very long but already it has produced a very detailed and lengthy report. For the benefit of  Senator Keeffe  and other honourable senators, I will quote some of the conclusions reached in this report. 
I accept your ruling,  Mr President.  I was referring to this matter because it comprised the main portion of the debate and the arguments put by  Senator Keeffe  and it was also referred to by  Senator Walsh.  I will outline some of the headings in this report, if I may,  Mr President.  The first was a recommendation to institute a national energy conservation program. The second refers to a national publicity campaign. The third refers to providing educational material for a training program. The fourth refers to the establishment of an advisory service to assist industry in improving energy use efficiency. The fifth says that the Commonwealth and State governments and other public bodies should demonstrate proper energy management in their own establishments, setting examples in energy conservation and providing useful guidelines for other sections of Australian society. There are many other recommendations but what I have read demonstates, I hope conclusively, that this Government is taking action in regard to energy conservation and is very concerned about that matter. 
I propose to devote a few moments of the time I intend to spend on this debate to try to urge the Federal Government that Western Australia is deserving of a larger share of the amount of money allocated to road funding in Australia. I have no argument with the whole of the amount that is allocated. I think it is a very generous amount and it is- completely justified. I certainly support the contention of the Government that under its federalism policy the States are getting far more and they are better able to spend their own money as they see fit. It is up to the State governments to allocate their increased funds as they wish.  Senator Walsh  tried to argue, completely unsuccessfully, against the point made by  Senator Collard  in this respect.  Senator Walsh  does not seem to understand the difference between road classifications and the greater freedom that this Government has given to the States to allocate road funds to the various road classifications.Certainly it is well within the right and responsibility of this Federal Government to recommend allocations to the various classifications but the States are completely free to allocate funds within those classifications as they see fit. The States are certainly in a far better position than the Federal Government to understand their own road needs. They are far more responsive to the voters in the respective States in relation to their own roads needs. I think this is an extremely valuable move along the road to a successful federalism policy. 
I think the additional allocation for Western Australia is justified, but I would like to take to task the Bureau of Roads report for, I think, 1973. 1 maintain that insufficient recognition was given to certain aspects that are peculiar to Western Australia. I refer in particular to the tremendous distances between centres in Western Australia compared with other States and to the tremendous earning capacity of Western Australia in regard to the iron ore industry. I also refer to the inability of many local government authorities in Western Australia situated in the remote areas of the State that depend entirely on cattle and in some instances sheep to provide the local government contribution to the local roads situation. The people in those remote areas are certainly seriously disadvantaged. The cattle prices are well known. The costs of producing wool in those areas that our predecessors in government helped to accelerate are unfortunately still climbing. So, the ability of local government authorities to contribute to road funding is certainly decreasing. This is not quite so apparent in many other areas.  Senator Collard  quite rightly pointed out that Queensland is a very highly decentralised State. So the ability of local government authorities in that State to contribute to road funding is a good deal greater than in Western Australia. I repeat that those three factors- the distances between centres, the earning capacity of Western Australia and the ability of local government to contribute to road funding- seriously deteriorates the position in Western Australia. I urge the new roads organisation to take further and greater heed of those matters. 
It is unfortunate that Western Australia's share of Commonwealth roads funds is deteriorating. It has eroded from 18 per cent of the total funds in 1 969 to 12.67 per cent this year. The sharpest reduction in any State in Australia has been in Western Australia. In support of the claim that Western Australia is a growing State, I point out that it contributes a tremendous amount of money to Australia's export earnings. The iron ore shipments from the Pilbara alone contributed $774.8m in 1975-76. In 1977-78 they are expected to exceed $ 1,000m. The latest figures, on a per capita basis, show that Western Australia produced export earnings of $1,850 per person, by far the highest contribution of any Australian State. I believe that that sort of point has not had enough attention paid to it by the Bureau of Roads. 
Continuing that line of argument, I should like to point out that the criterion of a grant per kilometre of road in Australia may be another method of judging the rights of each State to road funds. I have a table here which demonstrates that in 1977-78 Tasmania will receive $1,042 per kilometre of road and that the figures for the other States are declining. New South Wales will receive $736.6 per kilometre of road and Western Australia will receive $371.8 per kilometre of road. On that criterion, Western Australia is disadvantaged. Another statistic which may reinforce this argument is the number of kilometres travelled by each motor vehicle. The information I have is that the number of kilometres travelled by each motor vehicle in Western Australia is higher than in any other State, according to the Bureau of Roads estimates. The figure for Western Australia is 17,598 kilometres, which is by far the highest, and the average for all States is 16,789 kilometres. The estimated growth rate on a national average is 3.5 per cent and the estimate for Western Australia is 3.9 per cent. 
In the latest report of the Bureau of Roads, one of the strongest reasons advanced against making a substantial increase in the Western Australian allocation was that at that stage the contribution from motor vehicle registrations and local government contributions was substantially lower in Western Australia than in other States. That contribution has changed substantially since then, and in fact motor vehicle licence fees are now far higher in Western Australia than they were at that time and are the second highest in Australia. Because of our vast distances and the trend towards decentralisation in the Pilbara, which is attracting a quite large and growing population, shipping services are declining sadly. There has been a reduced coastal shipping service to many centres in Western Australia, brought about initially by tremendous industrial problems and more recently by the sheer economics of the service. Because of that fact alone, the use of roads in Western Australia and the far north-west is increasing tremendously. 
I concede that Western Australia has one advantage with regard to roads which other States do not have. I have travelled widely in most States of Australia and I can say that the soil types over most of Western Australia allow the roads to be formed very cheaply. The soil is of a gravelly sandy nature which makes the formation of a road foundation a very easy and cheap proposition. In contrast to that, in many areas of South Australia and certainly in the black soil plains of Queensland, that situation does not occur and a great deal of the money from road allocations is used in the formation of the many feet of foundations that are needed. However, as I said before, that is not the situation in Western Australia. I strongly support the Bill, but in conclusion I must urge the Federal Government to give what I consider to be a fairer allocation of funds to Western Australia. 
-I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Health by referring to a news release from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs dated 23 September. The release informed us that the eleventh boat load of Indo-Chinese refugees had arrived on the north coast of Australia. I understand that soil is usually carried as ballast in these boats and I therefore ask: Because of the risk of disease transmission, will the Minister consider having the boats sunk as soon as they arrive? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources or the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the resolution relating to an expanding energy program in the United Kingdom which was recently passed by the United Kingdom Trade Union Congress? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the details of that decision? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I understand that the Government has introduced a scheme to give further education to unemployed young people through technical schools. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the purpose of the scheme and the progress being made? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce or perhaps the Minister representing the Minister ibr Foreign Affairs. I refer to a report this morning which announced a proposed exchange of personnel between Australia and Jordan to assist Jordan in agricultural industry and science. Is the Minister able to give more details on the matter to the Senate? 
First, in reply to the main point that  Senator McLaren  made, on the answers that  Senator Webster  has given to the series of questions by the Labor Opposition on solar energy expenditure, I would note that it is extremely difficult to answer a series of questions that have a dissimilar base; indeed,  Senator McLaren  gave a demonstration of that fact. In the first instance, he wanted to know how much the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is expending. That answer was given by the Minister. Then he asked how much was being spent in Australia generally on solar energy research, which is a totally different question. Lastly, he asked how much the Government was spending on solar energy research, which is another facet and requires another answer. I suggest that once the Labor Party makes up its mind what questions it wants answered, those answers will be forthcoming, in the way they desire. I would like to deal specifically with the report. 
In the first instance I merely brought down the report. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Did you speak to it then? 
-I read only the tabling documents. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I uphold the point of order.  Senator Thomas  made the motion and would, if he spoke now, close the debate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  That is what I was going to suggest. I shall call  Senator Jessop  now, and  Senator Thomas  may speak later. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, relates to the recent allocation of over $lm by the Wran New South Wales Government to the University of Sydney for solar energy research. Has the Minister any knowledge of how the Wran Government decided that the University of Sydney is more deserving than any other tertiary institution in New South Wales which is carrying out solar research, such as the New South Wales Institute of Technology? 
in reply- In the first part of my contribution to this debate I should like to refer to some of the matters that other speakers have mentioned. When  Senator McLaren  finally got around to talking about solar energy his contribution was quite valuable. In regard to some of the comments made by  Senator Jessop,  with all due deference to him I should point out that the fact that he is a very good friend of Professor Bockras may not necessarily improve his rationality in regard to solar energy.  Senator Jessop  has had a long term interest in solar energy and I am sorry that he was not on the Committee and did not have the opportunity to see the things we saw and no doubt reach the conclusions that we reached. I point out to  Senator Jessop  that the only people who have criticised our report are the scientists, who are competing for research funds, and that must be taken into account.  Senator Keeffe  suggested, as did  Senator Hall,  that we should think about supporting with tax concessions people who are building solar water heaters. On the subject of energy conservation, if every house in Australia had a solar water heater 1.5 per cent of the energy consumed in Australia would be conserved. Those are the sorts of things that we learned by studying the subject over 12 months. 
Yes, no doubt it is a significant portion. 
It is 1.5 per cent of the total energy consumption in Australia which would be conserved. 
-The definition was 'energy consumption'. With regard to  Senator Keeffe  's point about the expenditure of the United States on solar energy research, I point out that in the current year 1976-77, although the United States is spending about $180m on solar energy research it is spending $ 1,401m on nuclear research. That illustrates the priorities of the American Government. 
-I think the relationship between the amount we spend in Australia on nuclear research and the amount the Americans spend is fairly similar.  Senator Keeffe  also said that cassava was the answer to all our liquid fuel problems. It is rather interesting that the result of an exercise done by the Committee showed that to supply half the liquid fuel that Australia would need by the year 1985 cassava would have to be produced on 6.5 million hectares of land. It is interesting that scientists have not yet been able to demonstrate whether that land is available in the first instance or whether the environmentalists would allow Australia to have the huge monoculture that would be required for that sort of area. It is rather woolly thinking to suggest that we could make substantial inroads into our liquid fuel requirements through cassava. 
The return to the solar energy report, the Committee took its reference on solar energy in March 1976. As  Senator McLaren  pointed out, we received 120 written submissions and had 12 days of public hearings in Canberra, Adelaide and Perth. We conducted 13 inspections, and those were very interesting. The Academy of Science was of great assistance to the Committee on technical matters and answered many of our technical questions. I should also like to pay tribute to  Senator Durack,  who was the initial  Chairman  of this Committee. He and the secretariat set the guidelines, and our thanks are due to  Senator Durack.  The Committee met a large number of very dedicated scientists during its inquiry and saw some very exciting work that they are doing. They are dedicated people and they enthused the Committee with the sort of work they are doing. In response to  Senator Hall's  comments, I should say that we also met some very dedicated and successful manufacturers of solar water heaters and other solar energy equipment. Those manufacturers were in Perth and Adelaide in particular and they all paid a tremendous tribute to the work done 20 years ago in the early days of the establishment of the solar water heater by Roger Morse from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. He can be quite accurately described as the father of the solar water heater. 
All of the scientists we met are convinced of the future of solar energy. They also want more money, and if the Government agreed to all their requests many hundreds of millions of dollars would be required for research funding. However, the report certainly advocates a greater degree of expenditure in some areas of solar energy. The Committee also agreed that there should be a greater interchange of information between countries. It was put to us that we need to do enough work in Australia to enable us to become members of the club. This was described to us as having enough information from our own sources to be worth something to other countries so that they would exchange information with us. That is an important recommendation in the report. Naturally, many of the scientists were disappointed that we did not advocate their particular field of interest in our report. If we had done that the report would have been much longer. 
The main thrust of our recommendations related to the need to establish our energy priorities. The money put into research funds could be wasted unless that research is developed along lines that are going to be of value to this nation in the near future. One of the witnesses who appeared before the Committee coined a phrase which certainly changed my thinking on the matter of research funding. He referred to the technologically predictable future, which meant that it is very difficult to forecast what the world is going to be like in 10 years time, let alone 50 years time, and while we still need a basic research effort to continue, the applied research should be directed along the lines of national priorities. At the moment, work on solar energy m Australia is carried out mainly by the CSIRO. The priorities are determined entirely by the CSIRO executive, and I strongly maintain that the executive should continue to establish those priorities. That should be its role. The point I am making is that the Government has almost no say over the expenditure that CSIRO devotes to solar energy research. The other major area of research funding to solar energy in Australia is carried out by the Australian Research Grants Commission. Its priorities relate solely to the scientific value of the project. The value of the project from a national point of view has no relevance at all to its funding program. 
The universities themselves allocate some of their own funds to solar energy research. That also is outside government control. An example of this is quite an exciting project shown to us in great detail by a group from the Australian National University headed by  Dr Peter  Carden. This project involves a very complicated system concerning solar ammonia. But the University itself decided not to continue funding this project which had reached the working model stage. It is my personal opinion that it is unfortunate that funds could not be found to continue this project. But the University itself decided that to continue funds through the concept stage was outside its true role as a research organisation. 
In my opinion one example of very bad fundingthe sort of funding that went on in the past for solar energy in Australia- is that which I raised at Question Time this morning. I said that the Wran New South Wales Government had allocated $1.8m to the University of Sydney. I am not saying that the University does not deserve those funds or that the work it is doing is not extremely valuable. I certainly support the work it is doing, particularly into selective services on high temperature collectors. But many other organisations are equally or more deserving. To pick out one such organisation like that, with obviously no attempt at evaluating the whole area, is quite wasteful as regards research funding. Another example concerns oil from coal research. A great deal of funding still needs to be done in the very near future because no doubt our liquid fuels will come from that area in the near future. I pay tribute to the work the Western Australian Government is doing because, in contrast to the haphazard way in which the Wran New South Wales Government is acting, the Western Australian Government has established an Energy Advisory Council. Within that Energy Advisory Council it has established a solar energy study group. One of the main functions of this group is to evaluate national or State needs and to direct research funding in this area. 
Another example of the sorts of problems the Committee considered concerns priorities in funding. For instance, the Atomic Energy Commission receives about $20m a year; coal research receives about $4m a year and solar energy research slightly in excess of $lm a year. Now I am not saying that those priorities are wrong but I doubt whether many people in Australia would say that they are correct. This brings me to underlining the main recommendation our Committee made in its report. It recommended that an Australian energy commission be formed to establish national priorities, to determine research priorities and to monitor and supervise research funding. We feel that is the only sensible way to determine the priorities in energy funding thereby putting solar energy into the context of other energy forms in Australia. If and when this commission is established and it makes its recommendations, no doubt it will recommend that in certain areas of solar energy far greater expenditure most certainly should be made available. The main thrust of our recommendations is that until that happens a lot of research funding can be wasted. Until we determine our energy policy, until we determine our research priorities, until we monitor and supervise research funding, we are not very happy about the way things are going. 
-I agree with  Senator Jessop  that it is a matter of urgency. Another of our recommendations was that an Australian energy advisory committee be formed, consisting mainly of scientific people, to advise this proposed energy commission on scientific matters. I am very pleased to be able to say that this advisory committee has already been formed and has already brought down a report on the conservation of energy.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned pollution control. One of this committee's recommendations was that we should have another look at the exhaust problem. It is rather interesting in that because of this exhaust emission control we could be wasting more fuel. 
In closing my remarks I pay tribute to the members of our Committee who worked very hard. It was an ardous job. It was an enjoyable task but it was certainly a long and laborious one also. Senators Townley, Maunsell, McLaren, Robertson and McAuliffe were of tremendous help. Also no words of mine can pay sufficient tribute to members of the secretariat led by Charles Edwards. They did a wonderful job. I sincerely hope that Senate committees can be supported by people of the calibre and enthusiasm who supported this Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and refer to the decision by the Federal Council of the Liberal Party that the Government should not reissue the licence for the Cheynes Beach Whaling Company and should support a 1 0-year moratorium on commercial whaling at the next meeting of the International Whaling Commission. Will the Minister assure the Senate that the decision of the Federal Council of the Liberal Party is not binding on the Government? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refer to the current bans on wheat shipments to Indonesia and Chile. Does the Minister agree that, firstly, with regard to our overseas reserves it would be sound business practice to procure every available overseas market? Secondly, does the Minister agree that it is hypocritical of the trade union movement to continue to allow its travel agency, ACTU New World Travel, still to promote tours of Indonesia? Thirdly, as the travel agency has stated that it would go out of business if the tours to Indonesia were stopped, does the Minister think that the unions pay little regard to farmers going out of business? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. It was reported that the Minister recently visited an Education Program for Unemployed Youth course in Melbourne. Will the Minister give the Senate an indication of what progress is being made in this program? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and refers to an item on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news this morning about a new insecticide being developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Because of the serious threat presented to the Australian cereal grain industry by the rapid buildup of stored grain pests which are resistant to the commonly used insecticides, particularly malathion, can the Mister indicate to the Senate how effective the new insecticide will be for the control of stored grain pests? Can the Minister tell the Senate also whether the new insecticide could control fruit fly and codlin moth which at the moment prevent the export of Australian fruit to Japan? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Education. The Government recently announced an extra allocation of funds for adult migrant education, a matter which is important to Western Australia, as my State absorbs a higher proportion of migrants than does any other. Will the Minister give the Senate details of Western Australia's share of this allocation? 
We have just listened to 20 minutes of the usual diatribe from the Opposition.  Senator Gietzelt  started off by complaining about the lack of time in which to debate this Bill but he spent about five minutes of his 20 minutes talking to the Bill, and the other IS minutes were a complete waste of time. Whenever the honourable senator speaks he wastes time, so he should not have spoken at all. I support the legislation and reject completely the amendment moved by the Opposition. The first point of the amendment says that the Bill dishonours the November election promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I will read that statement in full later. 
The Bill agrees entirely with the Government's policy statement made at that time. The Opposition says that it would set up a rural bank as a statutory corporation. This is a rural bank. It is being set up by statute and it will be an organisation. I will deal with the last two matters at a later time, when I refer to the Commonwealth Development Bank submission to our Government. I will read only portion of our policy statement because of the limited time remaining for this debate. The Government's policy statement of 1975 on primary industry reads: 
We see the need for a special institution for this purpose as there are many types of investment in primary production which require a variety of medium to long term lending arrangements. With long term finance the producer is best able to avoid unpredictable price variations due to varying seasonal conditions or world demand for agricultural products. With this in mind, we intend to establish a National Rural Bank in conjunction with trading banks and other lenders in the rural sector to provide rural credit to cover the investment in land. 
The bank will also finance machinery, plant, stock and farm equipment, lend for farm development projects for the expansion of existing projects and refinance existing short term rural debts. The terms of lending would be appropriate for the purpose of the loan. Interest payable would be at bank interest rates for medium term loans and marginally better for long term loans. 
It is envisaged that the bank would function by relending through existing financial institutions but may be involved in direct lending in some instances. As a refinance institution, staff would be kept to a minimum and security and other documentation held and processed by the onlending financial body. 
Nothing in the legislation before the Senate conflicts with that policy statement. The planning for this national Rural Bank began in 1 976, after our election to office. Unlike the Opposition when it was in office, we do things very carefully and thoroughly. I was fortunate to be a member of a sub-committee of the rural committee that was appointed to research this matter. The honourable member for Ballaarat,  Mr Jim  Short, was the  chairman  of that sub-committee. We received many submissions from many organisations and had meetings with them. We kept in touch with officers of the Department of Primary Industry and of the Treasury. We received many dozens of submissions and had meetings over many months. I am happy to say that this Bill reflects the recommendation of our rural committee. 
The need for this Rural Bank is amply demonstrated in particular by a Bureau of Agricultural Economics publication called  Rural Credit in Australia  dated 1972 and a document called  Rural Policy in Australia  dated 1974. Both set out quite clearly the need for long term finance for the rural sector. Among the points that are underlined in those documents is the fact that returns are far slower in rural industries than in most other industries and in the short term returns often are quite unreliable. In many rural industries there is a slow turnover of money in regard to the capital that is involved. I am aware- I am sure most honourable senators also are aware- that because short term finance is available at the moment many producers have been forced into a high interest rate situation. 

 Senator Gietzelt in his speech and the Opposition in its amendment have supported the proposition put forward by the Commonwealth Development Bank. This proposition was considered very thoroughly by our committee and by the Government. It was a well prepared case, and I congratulate the Commonwealth Development Bank on the work it did. Our committee rejected the suggestion, however, for two reasons. The Commonwealth Development Bank is regarded by many primary producers as a bank of last resort. Once they have gone through the normal banking institutions and have been rejected, the Commonwealth Development Bank is regarded as the last resort, second last only to the rural adjustment organisation. If a rural bank were set up under that proposal a farmer whose application for finance was rejected would have nowhere else to go. Under the legislation before the Senate a farmer can go from bank to bank. If he gets an unsatisfactory reply from one bank he can go along to another bank. Much, of course, will depend on the recommendations of the local bank manager. 
We on this side of the chamber believe in private enterprise. We would be most unhappy to see a very large proportion of rural lending being carried out by an instrumentality with government control. Many rural producers expected, quite unnecessarily, that this banking institution would offer highly subsidised interest rates. I am sorry that that expectation came about. Certainly nothing the Government said led them to that expectation. Personally I would be very much against highly subsidised interest rates. One of the direct effects would be higher land prices. Certainly very few farmers want that. Because of lack of time I refer honourable senators to the comments of the honourable member for Moore,  Mr Hyde,  who touched on this point in the other place. 
The provisions of the Bill allow for the establishment of the company called the Australian Rural Bank Ltd. The shareholders will be, by consent of the Treasurer, the existing lenders to rural industries. These will include the Commonwealth Bank and the Treasurer himself. The 
Commonwealth will provide funds to this Bank. The funds will be appropriated by Parliament. The Bank will also use funds from the income equalisation deposit trust account and will attract loan funds from many other sources as well. The Rural Bank is designed to lend money to shareholders who will on-lend to primary producers. The primary producers include those engaged in the fishing and forestry industries. This facility will be particularly important to the fishing industry with the pending extension of our fishing limits to 200 nautical miles. 
The term of the loans will be for up to 30 years. I emphasise 'up to 30 years' because each application will be treated on its merits. As an example, on some projects it would not be feasible to lend for a period anywhere near that length of time. A big problem at the moment is faced by many rural producers when they receive finance for, say, a shearing shed which will last for 100 years. The present lending institutions expect them to repay the loan within three or four years. The Bank will demand that normal commercial conditions of viability will apply. This will be judged by the local people. It is to be hoped that the Bank will attract experts in rural lending. These people are fairly thin on the ground at the moment. It is to be hoped that this Bank will attract people who are expert in the knowledge of farming and in the knowledge of farm finance. One of the big advantages in setting up this Rural Bank in this way is that it will retain the traditional banker-client relationship which is so valuable. There is nothing to stop a client if he is rejected by one bank from making an application to another bank. Finally, I wish success and a long and happy life to the Australian Rural Bank. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he has noted the recent allocations of the United States entitlements of beef imports that have been granted to the Alice Springs abattoir. As the export industry accepted the control schemes for that country on the basis that they would apply equally to all licensed exporters, whether old or new, will not this action by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation make it appear to the industry that the AMLC is acting not impartially but, in fact, against the best interests of the Australian meat industry. Would the Minister consider, in the interests of equity, reviewing this decision? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, refers to the recent report of the Energy Advisory Committee entitled  Energy Conservation  in which it recommends that further consideration should be given to emission control devices on motor vehicles. Is it possible for each State to impose its own standards of emission control devices? 
It is with pleasure that I congratulate the new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, for the manner in which he presented his Speech to the Senate on the occasion of the opening of Parliament on 21 February. I congratulate the Government for the contents of that very excellent Speech. I congratulate  Senator Walters  for moving the Address-in-Reply motion and I congratulate  Senator Collard  on his speech in seconding that motion. I congratulate honourable senators for the many useful contributions which have been made during the AddressinReply debate. I also congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech, which contained a great deal of interesting information. I wish her well in the short time she will be with us. I shall quote some passages from the Speech of the GovernorGeneral to which I wish to refer in my address. One of the Government's priorities was stated to be as follows: 
To promote vigorously the development of Australia 's resources and enlarge our external trade. 
Under the heading 'The Economy' it was stated that the Government's economic policies will continue to be based on, amongst other things: 
A monetary policy which will enable a sustained growth in economic activity . . . 
Under the heading 'Growth and Development' it was stated: 
Essential to my Government's economic program is the growth of Australian industry, the development of our resources, and a renewed emphasis on growth in exports. These hold the key to greater prosperity and the creation of more jobs. 
It was stated further under the same heading: 
My Government has embarked on a major program to boost exports. 
Finally, under the heading ' Rural Community' it was stated: 
My Government believes that it is of vital importance to Australia's interests that its rural community be strong and viable. High priority will be placed on assisting rural producers through the present difficult period. 
I wish to quote briefly from  Senator Bonner's  fine contribution to this Address-in-Reply debate. He is recorded on page 121 of the Senate Hansard of 23 February as saying: 
Something must be done to assist the man on the land much more than he has been assisted in the past. 
What I am suggesting is that the farmer certainly wants assistance but with less hindrance. He wants to be allowed to prosper without hindrance. I happen to be one of the growing number of Federal politicians who believe that the solution to many of our problems is reducing our tariff burden. Unfortunately many of those politicians who so believe keep silent in their own electorates for obvious reasons but they are certainly prepared to speak out in my company. 
Let me list some of the problems. As I move around Australia and particularly parts of my State of Western Australia I see many abandoned station properties. Many that are not yet abandoned are being run by farmers or pastoralists on their own. They have vast properties with large numbers of stock and cannot afford labour. Naturally the standard of improvements on those properties is declining rapidly. In my own area around Geraldton I see many deserted farmhouses and declining country towns that are becoming almost ghost towns. The huge migration to the capital cities is creating problems in those cities in housing, the provision of facilities and employment. On the wider scene I see that metals and minerals are pricing themselves out of world markets. The build-up of cattle numbers in Australia is particularly disturbing during a period of low cattle prices, low demand from overseas and no profitable markets within reach of production areas. 
I see a quite significant decline in the rural work force. In 1953-54 468,000 persons were directly employed in rural industries and in 1975-76 there were 336,000 persons. That was a 30 per cent fall and represented 132,000 persons who were formerly directly employed in agriculture. This means that for the last 23 years 1 10 persons per week have left rural employment. If we assume that a large percentage of those employed are married people it means that possibly about 300 persons per week over the last 23 years have been affected by this move from rural employment. Another matter that is apparent as I move around the countryside is the decline in the number of rural holdings. Certainly an investigation of the figures would show a decline in terms of trade. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics defines a term of trade as the ratio between prices received and prices paid. If we use 1962-63 as the base year with an index of 100, 1974-75 has an index of 69 and 1977-78 an index of 56. Projections into the early 1980s are quite horrifying.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard.  I have sought the permission of one of the shadow Ministers and he saw no problem with its incorporation. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="076232197803016_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table is from a publication of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and is headed 'Volume of Rural Output and Inputs and Farmers' Terms of Trade'. I appreciate that many farms are extremely profitable, particularly those in some of the grain growing areas and some of the more closely settled wool growing areas, but in most areas there is an acute low farm income problem and this creates many sociological problems in addition to the pure economic problems. I refer particularly to the stress brought about by the lack of work opportunities which in many country towns is forcing people to move their place of residence. My home town of Geraldton has a population of about 20,000 persons and is the centre of one of the largest fishing industries in Australia. It is the second largest fishing port in Australia and the centre of a large and profitable grain growing area. Yet about 20 per cent of its work force is unemployed. Geraldton is a very fine place to live and many of those from outlying areas who are unemployed have decided that if they are to be unemployed they might as well be unemployed in Geraldton. However, the fact remains that, according to the figures, 20 per cent of the work force in Geraldton is unemployed. 
Among the sociological problems created by unemployment are education problems, communications problems, problems with health and welfare services and problems caused by the lack of retraining in other occupations. Many of these problems are being overcome. I am pleased to see that the cost-price squeeze in country areas is being reduced. Inflation in rural expenditure was running at about 30 per cent. It is now down to about 10 per cent but even if it were reduced to nil today the situation would still be intolerable for many producers. Problems have been overcome in other ways. Farm amalgamations are continuing at a fast rate. This creates greater efficiency in many areas. Larger machinery is being employed and less staff is being employed on farms. In the more intensive wool growing areas in my State up to 12,000 sheep per labour unit are being run. In some areas of the State producers can change to other areas of production. 
I congratulate the Government for the added incentive and assistance it has provided through the rural adjustment scheme for farmers to move from one area of production to another. Many other government actions have been taken in the last 2  Vi  years, which have assisted the producer, but I do not wish to enumerate them today. However, I remind the Government that much of the assistance is in the form of taxation relief. This is of assistance only when persons have a taxable income. I strongly support the actions of the Government in recognising and reinforcing our marketing efforts overseas. 
I suggest four possible solutions to the problems of our exporters. The first, which is probably the most obvious, is more subsidies. I agree that subsidies to certain areas of production are most useful, particularly when there are short term downturns in prices or bad seasons. But generally speaking producers do not want subsidies. They are aware of the increasing resistance of the taxpayer to what he sees as unwarranted handouts to farmers. Subsidies tend to discourage the normal adjustment between occupations. This adjustment must continue as an evolutionary process. Many subsidies are inclined to help those who need help least. It should be recognised by everybody in government that we must treat welfare matters as welfare matters and not try to confuse them with subsidies. 
The second of my long term solutions is tariff compensation, which is widely supported by most rural organisations. The Industries Assistance Commission recently calculated that the cost of tariffs to the Australian consumer in 1975-76 totalled $4, 190m, compared with the direct assistance to rural producers by the Government in the most recent Budget of $127.8m. One of the direct results of this increase in tariffs is increased inflation. It is the consumer who pays the cost of protection. In discussing tariffs I find it most difficult to try to explain to and convince the unconverted that the people who eventually pay for tariffs are the exporters. Others in the community merely pass on the cost. Certainly, some of that cost stays with the consumer but eventually the major portion of tariff costs is borne by exporters. As I have said, the primary production area of exports attracted from direct government assistance the sum of $ 127.8m. The cost of tariffs which was largely borne by rural producers was $4, 1 90m. 
The question was asked: Where did I obtain those figures. I obtained them through the Wool Growers and Graziers Council. It in turn obtained the figures from various sources but principally from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Industries Assistance Commission. I continue with the long term solutions which I recommend; tariff compensation. 1 ask: How should that be done? We have established that the amount of money that we are talking about is $4, 190m. But how should that be split up? Which exporting industry should receive it? Which producers in which industries should receive it? I suggest that if we talk about tariff compensation we will get into an extremely difficult equity situation. 
The third long term solution I see is that instead of charging tariffs, we convert them into bounties. I notice that this is already beginning to happen. I am pleased that there are some moves in this direction. Bounties are of tremendous advantage to exporters. The main advantage is that a bounty does not add to the costs of exporters. It does not flow onto the cost which exporters have to meet. But probably the most significant advantage to be gained from bounties instead of tariffs is that the costs of protection would be immediately apparent to government and to consumers. I am quite certain that if the total amount of tariffs was known by consumers and by government there would immediately be a more preferable solution which would contribute a long term solution to many of our problems. I refer to the gradual and planned reduction in tariffs. I read from page 37 of the Government's White Paper on Manufacturing Industry which was published in 1977: 
In the changing environment now being encountered, Australian manufacturing industry needs in the long run to achieve a greater degree of specialisation, with less reliance on government assistance. As a long term objective the community will be best served by a manufacturing industry with a structure which requires minimum levels of government support. 
I strongly support that portion of the report. Many academics in Australia and certainly throughout the world support this line of action. Those academics include Milton Friedman who is a recognised economist. He is asked by many governments to advise them. A large and growing number of Australian business people support this action. Pressure from exporters is increasing. Consumer organisations are starting to realise that tariffs add to their costs and they are also putting on pressure. Developing countries are critical of our trade barriers. 
Recently I was in Malaysia. I think that the Australian Government and the Australian people do a great deal of good for the people of Malaysia. But all that is lost because of the preoccupation of the Malaysian people to whom I spoke with Australian trade barriers. I refer honourable senators to the situation in West Germany where this solution was tried. In 1956 the West German Government reduced tariffs on industrial products by about 25 percent. The following year that Government reduced tariffs on industrial products by another 25 percent. Domestic industrial production continued to increase and unemployment fell from 5. 1 per cent in 1 955 to 3.5 per cent in 1958 and to 1.2 per cent in 1960. I realise that that is over simplifying the situation and that other factors are involved. But those are the facts. 
In Spain in 1959 quotas and tariffs were reduced substantially and the currency was devalued by 43 per cent. There was a continuing reduction in trade barriers until 1968 when 80 per cent of imports were completely free of duty. The result of that action was that between 1959 and 1969 the gross domestic product in Spain rose by an annual rate of 7 per cent. Manufacturing output grew by nearly 10 per cent per annum. Both countries have increased growth and achieved a more stable employment situation. I ask: Why is this not done in Australia? I list some of the arguments commonly used against reducing tariffs. The first argument is that if we reduce tariffs we will make Australia susceptible to dumping. I point out to honourable senators that we already have two organisations, namely the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority, which can and does protect Australia against that situation. The second argument is that there will be loss of jobs. I happen to believe that there is very little positive relationship between jobs and tariffs. I certainly know that there are many negative relationships. I read from an article by Peter Samuel in the  Bulletin  of 29 October 1977 headed 'Protection racket must go': 
What is described as the 'scotch disease' is seen to be plaguing major sections of Australian business, inhibiting investment, raising costs, causing tensions with trading neighbours, disadvantaging exporters and creating continuing demands on government. That those demands can be deeply humiliating was demonstrated most spectacularly in the case of the whisky quotas . . . proposed duty increases and import licensing that threaten to boost the cost of a bottle of scotch to $10 before Christmas, put nearly 1,000 people out of work and lose the Government many millions in excise revenue. The only possible beneficiaries would have been a couple of companies that had been losing their market share over the past two years due to vigorous competition from discounters. Usually the Government is able to make such log-rolling for companies respectable by saying it is saving jobs. But in the case of the scotch schemozzle the Government was left completely naked, since there is no manufacture of whisky in Australia at present . . . there are estimated to be more than ten years ' stocks maturing in wood casks from which the small demand can be met for some years. So there is no employment to be protected in local manufacture. There is, however, considerable employment- estimated at between 3,000 and 5,000- in the bottling and distribution of the Scotch which is imported in the wooden casks in concentrated form to be diluted with distilled water and bottled and labelled and cartoned. The Government's protection measures for what turned out to be a non-industry were threatening perhaps 1,000 jobs handling the imports. Last week the Government admitted it had erred and announced the abandonment of the proposed tariff increases and import quotas. 
I have many other examples where an increase in tariff actually resulted in a decrease rather than a increase in the number of jobs. I also happen to be a member of the Federal Parliament who does not believe that the 25 per cent acrosstheboard tariff cut which was introduced by the previous Labor government was a major contributor to unemployment. I remind honourable senators that many things which the Labor Party did during its period of office had a far greater influence on unemployment than that single measure. I remind honourable senators that that decision corresponded with a huge increase in the general wage level. It corresponded with a high inflation level. It corresponded with an equal pay decision, which added immensely to the cost of some of the high labour industries such as the footwear and clothing industries, and with a general compression in wages. I believe that all these factors contributed far more greatly to the increase in unemployment than did the 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut. 
I should like to list some industries that could absorb much more employment if tariffs were reduced slowly and gradually. I have demonstrated already that in the rural industry many rural properties need more people in order to maintain property improvements, something which is being neglected at the moment. In areas such as metals and minerals exports, meat products, food processing, flour mills and cereal food products, fibre processing, chemical processing, agricultural machinery, the transport industry and many others, direct and indirect jobs would be created by a reduction in tariffs. What I am suggesting is that a reduction in tariffs would lead not to a loss of jobs but a transfer of jobs from some uneconomic industries to industries which are more economic. 
The third frequently heard complaint against cuts in tariffs deals with the disruption that might be caused to the work force. I have in front of me a copy of a report entitled  Population Report  1 which was produced in November 1977 by the Australian Population and Immigration Council. The  chairman  of that organisation is the Honourable Michael MacKellar, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. On page 5 of that report it is stated: 
Australians are comparatively mobile by international standards. Some 40 per cent of Australians changed their residence between the 1966 and 1971 Censuses. 
I am suggesting that tariff cuts would not disrupt the work force because the Australian population is already extremely mobile, and I look forward with a great deal of interest to the report that is to be made by  Sir John  Crawford on that very issue. 
The fourth argument that is used against tariff cuts relates to the disruption that would be caused to industry and investment. I am suggesting that the Government should call its shots long before the event in order to give industries time to adjust. I recommend strongly that the Government should establish a scheme similar to the rural adjustment scheme which would allow industries to adjust from one area of production to another. Many industries would benefit enormously from a reduction in tariffs; only those that are heavily protected would be disadvantaged. 
The fifth area of complaint in relation to tariff cuts is that we need to achieve economic recovery and full employment before we embark on tariff cuts. I am suggesting that many export industries cannot wait for that to happen. 1 am also suggesting that manufacturing industries might not increase employment. I was fortunate enough recently to be able to visit Japan, in company with  Senator Missen  and others, where we saw the Toyota factory at Nagoya. In many sections of the car manufacturing industry in Japan whole portions of the machine are constructed without any labour being used. If Australian manufacturers developed in more economic and streamlined ways their employment needs would be reduced and not increased. 1 am also suggesting that lower tariffs would create their own economic recovery. The sixth and final argument often used against tariff cuts relates to the area of strategic industries such as defence, and I agree that perhaps there are some industries that need to be maintained against the event of a future conflict. But let us identify those industries before we say too much about that argument. 
In conclusion, I suggest that the risks of not reducing tariffs include a lower gross domestic product, higher consumer costs, continuing trouble for our export industries, the loss of overseas markets, the upsetting of other countries, particularly the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations, because of our high tariff barriers, and the upsetting of the States. I refer in particular to Queensland and Western Australia who are more disadvantaged by tariff protection than any other State. In advocating lower tariffs I believe that I am representing the interests of the electorate of Kalgoorlie, where I reside and where the bulk of production is in export industries; the State of Western Australia, in which 1 live; exporting industries in particular, and I happen to be a lifelong and active farmer; and the interests of Australia. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether, in light of the fact that traffic at Perth Airport is increasing at an alarming rate, he is able to say whether there are at present plans to increase the capacity of Perth Airport to alleviate the critical overcrowding. If plans have not been prepared, would the Minister consider directing the joint State and Federal committee which has been set up to review Perth Airport's needs to report as soon as possible in order to alleviate any unnecessary delays in the future? 
I direct the Committee's attention to clause 14 which seeks to' insert in the principal Act proposed new section 27, which states: 
The Minister, after consultation with the full-time member of the Authority, may appoint a person to be an associate member, or persons to be associate members of the Authority. 
That proposed new section did not concern me until I read that part of the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  which states: 
The structure of the TAA will be changed so as to comprise one full-time member. The Bill provides for the Minister to appoint associate members for specific inquiries, thus allowing for the appointment of persons having expertise in a particular area as the need arises. 
I am aware of provision in this legislation which insists that the full-time members of the Authority and any associate members of the Authority declare their direct or indirect pecuniary interests in a particular business. I request the Minister to give me some assurance that where a specific industry is being investigated the Authority will be able to find suitable associate Authority members who have no interest whatsoever in that industry. 
I support strongly the Industries Assistance Amendment Bill 1978 and reject the amendments that have been moved by the Opposition. As probably most people realise, I support the lowering of tariffs, and see the Industries Assistance Commission as also the supporter of that policy. I looked very closely at this Bill before deciding to support it strongly. I see no problem at all in preserving both the independence of the Commission and its ability to report to the Government, The Bill requires the IAC, in making its recommendations, to take account of government policy, and requires the Temporary Assistance Authority to report on the degree of assistance required for a particular industry to maintain its level of employment. It also discusses other matters relating to the IAC and the TAA. I am a member of a large and growing number of federal politicians who support a steady and controlled reduction in the level of tariffs, which we see as a solution to many of our problems. 
I would refer those who are interested to my speech in this chamber on the subject made exactly a week ago today. Unfortunately, many of the industries that I represent have only a small voice in this place. We see the IAC as representing that voice in this Parliament. I knew  Mr Rattigan  well when he was  chairman  of the IAC. I have not yet had the opportunity of meeting  Mr McKinnon,  but I look forward to that event. Both gentlemen have done a very good job in controlling this large and important organisation. 
Unfortunately, in recent years the Industries Assistance Commission has been subjected to an enormous amount of criticism- criticism that, in my opinion, has been completely unjustified. It is rather interesting to find, upon studying that criticism, that it is never specific, that it is almost always voiced by those who have a particular point of view to press. Quite often it is voiced by those who represent high protection industries, on occasions when the IAC does not necessarily support their point of view. But, as I have said, the criticism is never specific; it is always couched in very general terms. 
I have previously congratulated the Labor Party, and do so again, on having, on the recommendation of  Sir John  Crawford 's committee of inquiry, set up the Industries Assistance Commission. The Commission is performing its intended function and is achieving a great deal. I repeat, the Commission is merely a recommending body. It is not a policy-making body and it is up to the government of the day to accept, reject or partially accept or reject its recommendations. I am extremely suspicious when there is a possible threat to the independence of the Commission, but I have been unable here to sustain any such suspicion. 
May I make some general comments on tariffs. I do not want to take up much of the Senate's time. The Opposition is supporting this Bill and I do not think there is much point in carrying on this debate at great length. I do not think anybody in Australia seriously contends that we should have a closed society. By a closed society I mean one with no exports or imports. Probably the only civilisation that has ever successfully achieved what is regarded by some as a euphoric situation would be the inhabitants of this country prior to 1788. My friend  Senator Bonnor  probably would agree with me that they had a rather idyllic civilisation in those days, but nobody seriously contends that we shoud go back to those times and that sort of environment. 
Unfortunately many people directly relate the subject of high protection with employment. It is my strong contention that often the only relationship is a negative one. We should accept that exports, and imports in particular, are necessary for our present society. If we agree with that, it follows that we must produce what we do best and import what we cannot do very well and what other countries can do well. It is my strong contention that international relations are almost entirely built on trade. If one country is important to another, it follows that it develops good relations with the other country. What is a greater reason for being important than to rely heavily on another country for trade? 
I was in Malaysia recently. The Australian Government has done a great deal of good for the Malaysian people. We have a system of aid for many of Malaysia 's rural areas. We spend a large amount on aid to Malaysia. We educate a tremendous number of her students in Australian universities. The balance of trade between Australia and Malaysia, although it is still very heavily in Australia's favour, is becoming more even. Unfortunately the Malaysian people with whom I spoke are completely preoccupied with what they see as our unfair trade barriers. All we do in fostering good relations with Malaysia is completely overshadowed by the preoccupation of its people with what they see as our unfair trade barriers. They say that they would rather be able to trade with Australia more successfully than receive aid. I support that contention. 
We can link international relations with trade. I draw honourable senators' attention to the situation now pertaining in Europe. We have the closest of ties with Europe and in particular with the United Kingdom, but because of the completely inward-looking policies of the European Economic Community at the moment our relations with that group of countries are becoming less and less important to us. Many people are preoccupied with the belief that there are positive relationships between tariffs and employment. It is my suggestion that this is a completely simplistic point of view and that they should look to the secondary effects of high tariffs on employment in the present and potential- I underline the word 'potential'- exporting industries. High tariffs add to inflation and costs, and those costs are almost entirely met by the exporting industries. I refer to potential exporting industries because prior to the period of the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975 we had many useful exporting industries. They were demolished by the huge increases in costs created by that Government. I would like to see us get back to the situation where we can compete equally with other countries in many products. I do not mean just rural products. Many of our exporting industries that have survived are in quite a bit of trouble. We must look to them for a solution to many of our economic problems. 
Australians are probably one of the most highly educated people in the world. It must follow that if we are to increase our living standards, which are extremely high at the moment, we must look to exporting technology and to encouraging industries that have a high degree of technology. Countries like West Germany and 
Sweden have an international reputation for exporting high technology. Looking further ahead, I would direct honourable senators' attention to the fact that Australia is probably one of the richest energy countries in the world. I see a great future for Australia in exporting not only coal and gas but also other metals and minerals that require energy to convert them from their raw state into a more highly sophisticated state. I instance the conversion of bauxite to aluminium. The requirement for conversion is almost entirely an energy requirement. There is no reason at all why we should not be producing far greater amounts of steel in Australia at a much lower cost than other countries, particularly as the cost of energy in other countries gets higher and higher as the energy supply reduces. I was in Japan recently. The Japanese see their relations with Australia as being terribly important potentially, not necessarily because of our trade with them at present- although it is important to Australia, it is less important to Japanbut because they see Australia as being the source of many of their energy requirements. Japan is almost entirely dependent on importing energy, and it will certainly look to Australia to provide most of that energy. In conclusion, I reject completely the amendment moved by the Labor Opposition, and I strongly support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it correct that preliminary population figures for February 1 978 show that Western Australia has more than the 10.5 quotas needed for the granting of an eleventh seat in the House of Representatives? If these figures are correct when is the necessary redistribution likely to be carried out? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen an announcement that CSR Ltd and the New South Wales Government plan to discuss a $2 5 m prototype conversion plant to produce oil from Australia's coal reserves? As this indicates that a private Australian industry is willing to make available a multi-million dollar investment necessary to reduce Australia's dependence on imported oil during the next decade, can the Minister say whether the Federal Government is participating in these discussions? 
The Bill we are debating is entitled, surprisingly enough, the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill 1978. 1 am reminded when thinking about this type of legislation of a comment made some years ago by my friend the  Hon.  Bert Kelly. Referring to the fact that there may be an election coming on he said: I can feel a dam coming on'. I am afraid that typifies many past situations in which decisions on the construction of major earthworks in this country have been made for political reasons. I am confident that the legislation in front of us will go a long way towards correcting that anomaly. 
The Bill sets out the legislative framework for agreements with the States. This point has been well demonstrated by previous Government speakers. The Commonwealth and the States projects selected under the $200m national water resources program will be authorised by these agreements. 
I support the remarks of Government speakers and also some of the comments that have come from the Opposition side. One thing I have observed since I came to this place is that honourable senators are now inclined to stop talking when they have said what they have had to say. I think that is a very commendable practice. It is one that I would commend to the Senate. 
I strongly support the legislation and I have no hesitation in rejecting the amendment. I would like to remind  Senator McLaren  and other Opposition speakers who support the amendment that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said in his second reading speech: 
A copy of every agreement with a State must be tabled in the Parliament. In addition, the Parliament will need to consider separately the appropriation of funds for the purpose of the agreements. 
That sets out very clearly the intent of the legislation. For the benefit of those slow learners on the other side of the chamber I shall read again those words of the Minister. He said: 
A copy of every agreement with a State must be tabled in the Parliament. In addition, the Parliament will need to consider separately the  appropriation  of funds for the purpose of the agreements. 
If we take the Opposition's amendment at face value we find that the Opposition is suggesting  that there should be only one debate on the subject and that will be the finish. Under this legislation honourable senators will be able to debate this subject every year when it comes up under the Budget provisions. Therefore, the Opposition's point, taken literally, is that we should have only one debate. However, we are saying that we should debate this subject every year. 
Opposition senators made some interesting points in the debate.  Senator Walsh  pointed out quite correctly that in many cases our irrigation schemes have been ill conceived and that factors have arisen which were beyond the knowledge or control of those people who designed the schemes. He is saying now that we should forget the people who have been brave enough and adventurous enough to go to these places and that we should close down the schemes. I suggest that that is a completely callous point of view. I would say that the Western Australian Government in particular in its handling of the Ord River scheme is doing its very best, on the one hand, to find alternative economic crops to grow in the Ord and, on the other hand, to ease the problems of those people who in some cases are faced with bankruptcy. I point out to  Senator Walsh  that the problems in the Ord area were of a nature that could not have been expected or anticipated when the project was constructed. The insects and other things that attacked the cotton turned what was quite an economic and productive crop into a completely useless one. 
I would like to point out to  Senator McLaren  that the filtration problem for Adelaide 's water supply has been a growing one. The problem has not been with Adelaide all the time. As the salinity level rises in the River Murray, this filtration scheme has become more and more necessary. It is only in more recent times that the problem has grown. Because no more South Australian senators from this side of the chamber are to follow me in the debate I feel I should make that point and a couple of other points as well.  Senator McLaren  would give the impression that the only money the South Australian Government had to spend on the scheme was contributed by the Commonwealth. If the Federal Labor Government had had its way when it was in office, that would have been the case; but it is not the case. The South Australian Government raises much of the finance from the unfortunate people in South Australia. In many cases, the charges in that State are higher than those in other States. If South Australia sets a low priority for a water resources project as opposed to another project, so be it; that is the way it decides. It is up to the State and the Commonwealth to  negotiate with regard to the $200m water resources program. If the State puts a low priority on country water supplies, for instance, that is the State Government's decision. 
We also have the same old Labor Party hackneyed phrase of spend, spend, spend. Honourable senators opposite still think that money grows on trees. They tend to forget that we have a responsibility in this Parliament- certainly, it falls on honourable senators on this side of the chamber- to control and to try to modify the amount of money that is being spent on behalf of the taxpayer. When  Senator McLaren  was answering interjectors from this side of the Senate he pointed out that he did not like this loan coming from the Commonwealth. I suggest that if the honourable senator does not want the money he should suggest to the people in South Australia that he does not want it and let them judge his action. I am sure that other States in Australia would take advantage of that money. 

 Senator Coleman spoke in the AddressinReply debate last week. She made a rather amazing speech. I think that the points she made were replied to fairly well by the Leader of the Government in the Senate (Senate Withers). It struck me that anybody listening to that speech would be discouraged even to come to Western Australia, let alone to set up a business. She seemed to forget that the water restrictions in Western Australia were introduced, to a very large degree, because we have had three very dry winters in a row. The evidence put before the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources during its current water resources inquiry showed that the Western Australian Department has things well in hand and that if it were not for a most unexpected situation- the three droughts in a row- the water restrictions would not have been applied. One of the other factors that add to our problems is that we seem to get a tremendous number of people moving to Western Australia from Labor-governed States. This adds to the load on our resources, including water. 
As I said before, I am the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. At the moment the Committee is carrying out an investigation, as  Senator McLaren  quite rightly pointed out, into the role of the Commonwealth in the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia's water resources. We expect to be ready to report before June. It is not my intention to pre-empt what will be stated in the report. The comments I make are mine and not necessarily those of the Committee. One of the points that is coming through very strongly in our inquiry is that water is a State resource. The officials from the States who gave evidence during our inquiry made that point very strongly. They feel, quite rightly too, that water is a State resource. That does not say that the Commonwealth does not have and should not have considerable interest in the subject of water. The final resource rests with the States. 
During the time I have available to me in which to speak I would like to discuss nine separate matters which deal with water resources. Matters I wish to discuss include: The multitude of Commonwealth departments involved with water, the Australian Water Resources Council, the subject of research, environmental considerations, sewerage programs, flood mitigation, the River Murray Commission, project priorities and finally Commonwealth funding. The first point relates to departmental arrangements for water. The Committee has been told that no fewer than 23 government departments and agencies have some influence on or some involvement in water. 
I would like to read the quite considerable list for the benefit of honourable senators. First of all, we have the Department of National Resources which has a predominant role in many areas. We have the Bureau of Mineral Resources, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority, the Bureau of Meteorology and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which I would like to deal with in more detail later. We have the Department of Health, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Department of Construction, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, the Department of the Northern Territory and the Department of the Capital Territory, the National Capital Development Commission, the Department of Administrative Services, the Department of Primary Industry, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Department of Finance, the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the Department of Defence, the Department of Foreign Affairs, the River Murray Commission, the Snowy Mountains Council, the Australian Water Resources Council and the Commonwealth Consultative Committee on Water Resources. That is a fairly long list. Honourable senators can imagine the problems that are created because of the diversity within the Commonwealth of responsibility for water resources. 
The second point I wish to discuss concerns the Australian Water Resources Council. This Council is supported unanimously and has been congratulated by all States that made submissions to our Committee during its inquiry. The Commonwealth also thinks very highly of its work. At this stage I would like to congratulate  Mr Alan  Hatfield who has been the executive officer of the Council for some time for the way in which the Council performs its function. It has a very useful function to perform in the determination of policies in the water area. I refer honourable senators to a small publication produced by the Council. It is dated August 1976 and is entitled  Proposed National Approach to Water Resources Management.  The document is too long to incorporate in the  Hansard  record, but I would direct the attention of those honourable senators who are interested in the subject to that publication. It sets out quite clearly the matters that should be considered by the Commonwealth and the States. 
Thirdly, I wish to talk about the subject of research. The States maintain that they should be responsible for a certain area of research, and I support that contention. This is the area of applied research where some problems may be of a nature that interests only a particular State. It is quite right that the States themselves should carry out that research. There are many more basic problems of research that can be carried out by the Commonwealth and, in fact, are being carried out to a large extent by CSIRO. We have something of a problem within CSIRO as well. The duplication I mentioned in regard to the Commonwealth Government's involvement in water is taking place also within the CSIRO. Fourteen separate divisions of the Organisation have been involved in water research. At the moment, 19 separate programs are being undertaken by the Organisation, and no fewer than 190 persons are investigating the separate programs of water resources. 
Water research involves a diversity of subjects. Many of those subjects may not be directly concerned with water to our way of thinking but they are all areas of water research carried out by the CSIRO. One of the more useful roles of the Australian Water Resources Council is to make certain that Australia is well represented internationally whenever matters of importance are being discussed overseas. In that way we are able to keep up with the latest developments. 
The fourth subject on which I wish to speak relates to environmental matters. I do not wish to deal at great length with the environment because  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Jessop,  who are far more experienced and knowledgeable in this area than I, have made fine contributions in this regard. However, I should remind honourable senators that the Commonwealth has undertaken to allow the States greater responsibility when impact studies are being carried out. The fact that I do not spend a great deal of time discussing environmental matters does not lessen in my mind the importance of that subject. The fifth subject matter deals with sewerage programs. I should like to underline a couple of problems in this area. Some States give high priority to sewerage works and others give very low priorities and it is very difficult for the Commonwealth to embark on a funding program when the States have different priorities. I give as an example the position in my own State of Western Australia, which in the past has given a fairly low priority to sewerage works simply because the soil around its capital city is much more suited to other methods of sewage disposal. However, its priorities in the water area are far higher in relation to rural reticulation schemes. That is one of the problems that the Commonwealth faces when it embarks on a major sewerage program. 
The sixth subject matter deals with flood mitigation. Some States, including New South Wales, have quite extensive flood mitigation programs. For a number of years New South Wales has had a scheme under which the Commonwealth provides $2 for every $2 provided by the State and $ 1 provided by the local authority. I commend that scheme to other States. The Commonwealth has a responsibility in flood mitigation because it always picks up the tab when a major disaster occurs. So it is up to the Commonwealth to see that major disasters are avoided to the fullest extent possible. The seventh subject on which I should like to touch is that of the River Murray Commission. The three States concerned have told us that the River Murray Commission is working well and that it has all the power it needs to carry out its functions satisfactorily. My personal observation is that that is not necessarily so. The salinity of the Murray River is a problem that is growing all the time and the fact that the Commission is empowered to take an interest only in the area immediately surrounding the river and has no power to operate in the areas from which the salt comes certainly reduces its power. That matter will be the subject of some recommendations by the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. 
The eighth heading to which I shall speak deals with water project priorities. This is a fairly delicate area, and in making its report the Committee will have to come to grips with the problem. The States say that they should have their own priorities. I agree with that. The States certainly should have their own priorities. But what happens when the Commonwealth's priorities do not accord with those of the States? I do not give an opinion on that; I simply air it as a problem that will need to be faced very shortly. The ninth and final subject is that of Commonwealth funding of water projects. It has often been said by the States that the Commonwealth should give more advance warning of any funding programs and that the States need to be aware years ahead ofthe Federal Government's priorities in these areas. I agree that it would be a lot easier for the State governments if they knew many years ahead the level of funding that each project was going to attract. I strongly support the idea of having a long term program to develop our water resources, but the Federal Government is charged also with the management of our economy and there must be flexibility in any budget so that programs can be changed to take account of things that arise in the short term. 
One of the problems exemplified by this Bill is the Bundaberg irrigation program. In 1970 a fixed amount of $12. 8m was granted, being the amount calculated to be necessary to complete the project. However, in 1974 another $4.4m was needed because of the escalation in costs that had occurred in the meantime. We are now faced with a further payout of $ 1.5m to complete the project. Although it was started in 1 970, the project really has not contributed very much and will not contribute very much until this money is spent. It is a rather sad fact of life that the dam that has been built at Bundaberg is of little use and the water is not being used to any extent at all. Provision must be made by the Commonwealth when it funds projects such as that to build in an escalation clause in order to allow the project to be completed. Certainly the Government has a responsibility, as do the States, to ensure that the money is spent as economically as possible, but some escalation provisions must be included to allow for increases in costs. 
In conclusion I should like to point out, as other honourable senators have, that Australia is a very dry continent and water could very well be the limiting factor in development projects in the future. I support the need for the Commonwealth to place more emphasis on development projects in the water resources area. I believe that the Commonwealth should recognise many of the points that I have merely underlined. I have not offered solutions to any of the problems, but I suggest that the Commonwealth should take on board the points I have raised. I believe that the Bill we are now discussing is the first step towards solving those problems. I strongly support the Bill and reject the amendment. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to a report from the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance to the Australian Transport Advisory Council dated November 1977, and in particular to item No. DR1002-(4) headed 'Surface Films on Vehicle Windows' which appears on pages 11 and 12. This report was discussed at the 52nd annual meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council held recently in Wellington, New Zealand, and attended by the Federal Minister for Transport and his State counterparts. The Press statement issued after the meeting made no mention of this particular item. I ask the Minister: Was this item discussed at the meeting and was a decision reached? If a decision was reached, is the Minister able to say what it was? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I direct the Minister's attention to the report of the Australian Science and Technology Council entitled 'Energy Research and Development in Australia ', which was tabled in the Senate yesterday. Two of the recommendations state: 
An organisational structure is necessary and should be established without delay to expand activity in energy research, development and demonstration. 
An Australian Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Authority  (AERDDA)  should be appointed as quickly as possible, with terms of reference as outlined. 
I also refer the Minister to the main recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources in its report on solar energy. The Committee recommended that:   . . the Commonwealth Government establish a statutory body to be called the Australian Energy Commission to have an overall responsibility for developing and co-ordinating long term Australian energy policy. 
Will the Minister indicate whether the Government has any plans to act on these recommendations? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development a question about the report of the Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended June 1977. Does the report indicate that there will be a market for Australian uranium in the 1980s? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, relates to the tragic and devastating cyclone which caused at least five deaths and an enormous amount of damage in the south-west of Western Australia. The Bureau of Meteorology normally adopts an excellent system by which progress of a cyclone is reported by radio at short intervals in order to give those people who may be in danger time to take defensive action. However, in the case of this week's cyclone reports were discontinued long before most of the damage had occurred. Will the Minister investigate this matter for the purpose of endeavouring to ensure that cyclone reports are continued until the period of danger has passed? 
The Senate is debating the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill 1978. Unfortunately, the Opposition has only one  speaker  to this Bill. My colleague  Senator Young  has covered many of the points that I intended to cover. I do not wish to speak at great length, but I should like to explain the fact that this Bill is to amend the original States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act, which still stands. This Act cost the Commonwealth taxpayers $25. 7m in 1972-73. The significant fact is that this Act still stands. Under this Act the Labor Party discontinued assistance by way of a fuel freight subsidy in July 1974. The Act itself was not repealed by the Labor Government. It used section 4 of the existing Act to remove any benefits that accrued under this scheme. 
This legislation has many benefits, and they have been well covered by previous speakers from this side. I shall touch briefly on three of them. The first, of course, is the reduced cost of production to fuel users in remote areas. It reduces freight costs substantially, and it assists in decentralisation.  Senator Young  covered the point of decentralisation very well. The scheme will be carried out by means of grants to the States pursuant to section 96 of the Constitution. It requires supporting legislation in each of the States. The oil companies submit their freight differential costs to the Prices Justification Tribunal. A point that needs to be made at this stage is that the Tribunal will have to accept the freight differential to be charged by the oil companies. 
At this stage I should like to touch on some of the points raised by my colleague  Senator Wright,  who, in his contribution to this Bill, invited me to answer some of the points that he raised. He drew attention to the fact that I had interjected when  Senator Georges  was making his speech.  Senator Georges  was referring to the fact that the fuel companies received extra income in the country areas at the expense of the city areas. The interjection I made was that this point was not supported by the fourth report of the Royal Commission into Petroleum, chaired by  Mr Justice  Collins. I should like to enlarge on that point of view. This report was brought into the Parliament on 18 May 1976. That report certainly does not support the comments made by  Senator Georges.  In fact, the royal commission report said quite strongly that the profit made by fuel companies in country areas was not excessive and did not support a price reduction in city areas.  Senator Wright  made that same point in his speech. I should like to point out the facts to  Senator Wright.  He is a man whom I greatly admire. Unfortunately, it has not been my good fortune to be in the Senate for long enough in his company really to appreciate the full value that he has given to this Senate. He is a man we will miss greatly, probably more than anyone. He has made a great contribution to this place. It is my intention to keep in touch with him after he retires from this place. There is no doubt in my mind that in the last few months of his occupancy of a position in the Senate he will leave a great mark. 

 Senator Wright also tried to argue, when referring to the discounting that goes on in the capital cities but not in country areas, that it must be at the expense of country service stations and country consumers. As I said earlier, the Royal Commission into Petroleum did not support that argument. The point that must be remembered is that the cost of retailing fuel in areas where the throughput is low, where the volume is low, must be greatly in excess of those areas where the throughput is great. That is one of the main reasons why the cost of retailing in country areas is so much greater than it is in the city areas. 
The Bill seeks to subsidise the cost of freight so that the freight component will mean that the cost of petroleum in the country areas will be no more than 4c a gallon or almost lc a litre more than it is in the city. As  Senator Young  quite rightly pointed out, all these changes are subject to disallowance by either House of Parliament. Under the provisions of this Bill, the Minister cannot revoke or otherwise terminate the scheme, as the Labor Government did in 1974. 1 strongly support this Bill because it will assist greatly in reducing costs in country areas. It will reduce freight costs and will reduce costs in many ways to remote areas. However, in the short time available to me I should like to underline some of the difficulties in this Bill. As  Senator Georges  and other honourable senators have mentioned, the discounting of petrol in some city areas is quite rife. I tend to blame the ACTU-Solo company in many regards. It tended to be the pacesetter in this regard. It certainly was not the first company to engage in discounting, but it became the pacesetter. 
I should like to underline one of the problems that particularly worries me with regard to city fuel prices. I have a friend in Perth who is a retailer on behalf of a major oil company. This person puts a normal margin of about 3c a gallon on the fuel he sells. Not far down the road, this fuel company owns and manages a site. It sells fuel for less than the amount at which my friend is able to buy it wholesale. In my belief, this is quite indefensible, and I would support very strongly any government action that could overcome this problem. 
The Labor Party, of course, is very wise after the event. It has said that it would have supported many of the recommendations of the Collins royal commission. We had many experiences in the three years of Labor Government of its hand descending very heavily on many industries. We almost saw the abolition of many industries. I do not blame the Government whatsoever for not taking up the main recommendations of the Collins royal commission, because it advocated a very strong government hand in the control of the fuel industry in Australia. We have had many experiences in recent years which indicate that government is not the ideal instrumentality to do this. 
The Government has taken the initiative to overcome some of the problems in the retailing of fuel in metropolitan areas. It has set up a committee to discuss the whole problem and there have been a whole series of meetings, chaired by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Wal  Fife, to try to reach a conclusion on these problems. I have no doubt that under the able chairmanship of the Minister a solution will be reached to the problem. But I strongly recommend to the Government that it not take the heavy handed action which was recommended by the Collins royal commission. The difficulty from the country consumer's point of view in accepting the Bill which is before the Senate at the moment is that it is very difficult to work out just what is a city price. Country people can be excused for believing that what is really a discount price in the city is, in fact, the real city price. Some people 's expectation of what this Bill will do will, I am afraid, fall far short of realisation, purely because of the heavy amount of discounting that is going on in city areas. 
The second point I make about the difficulties of this Bill is that the action recommended by the Government, if carried out when this Bill is passed, draws an arbitrary line in Australia. People who live on one side of that line will get all the benefits of this Bill and those who happen to live on the other side of that line will get no benefits whatsoever. I happened to chair a Government committee which made recommendations to the Government on this matter of fuel freight costs. Our recommendation was that instead of bringing in a freight equalisation scheme as is being proposed under this Bill, and if partial equalisation were to be applied- as it certainly will be- then equalisation should be applied as a percentage over all freight costs on fuel in Australia. If this were done everybody living outside metropolitan areas would get some benefit from the scheme. It would overcome the problem caused to those who accidently happen to live either inside or outside that arbitrary line from receiving or not receiving the benefit. I strongly recommend to the Minister and to the Government that they take heed of this recommendation and, on some future occasion, endeavour to introduce this type of scheme. 
I shall explain the scheme in greater detail. Almost the whole of Victoria will get no benefit at all from this proposed legislation. In my own State of Western Australia only a few people will get any benefit at all. Even some people in the most remote areas of the north-west of Western Australia will get only some benefit because they happen to live on the sea side of that line and they are within the 4c a gallon or lc a litre margin. If the freight component were subsidised on a pro rata basis- that is if the percentage total freight cost were applied as a percentage of the freight cost- then everybody who lived outside the metropolitan area would get some benefit. In my mind that would not be an unfair subsidy. I strongly support the legislation. I reject the Opposition's amendment to which I shall refer briefly and which states: 
. theBill- 
fails to- 
implement the election promise of the Government to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country' 
I think that point was very well and adequately dealt with by  Senator Wright.  The amendment continues: 
improve the adequacy of the existing petroleum marketing and distribution system in country areas - 
The Bill does not attempt to touch on those areas whatsoever-  and ( b ) is silent on the defects in the system outlined in the Fourth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
I have said that I reject completely the main recommendations of the Fourth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. It seeks to set up a government instrumentality which would exercise very tight control over the whole industry. I do not think that the Government is the best vehicle to use to carry out that sort of action. I sincerely hope, for the future of fuel consumers, fuel retailers, fuel wholesalers and fuel companies in Australia that some solution to our discounting problems in the city can be found. I am quite confident that under the Minister,  Mr Wal  Fife, some solution will be reached. I sincerely hope the solutions are not those recommended by the Collins Royal Commission on Petroleum. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister noted the recent allocations of the United States of America entitlements of beef imports granted to the Alice Springs Abattoir. 
Did the export industry accept the control schemes for the United States of America on the basis that it would apply equally to all licensed exporters, whether old or new. 
Will the action by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation make the industry judge that the AMLC is not acting impartially and in fact is acting against the best interests of the Australian meat industry. 
Will the Minister consider a review of this decision in the interests of equity. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I am concerned that the coal mining industry in New South Wales and therefore the jobs of many thousands of workers in that industry are being placed in jeopardy by the refusal of the New South Wales Government to provide coal loading facilities at Botany Bay and to upgrade coal handling and loading facilities in other places. Is there anything that the Commonwealth Government can do to ensure that facilities in New South Wales are upgraded to reduce the present waiting time for ships, so that present contracts can be honoured and so that provision can be made for future expansion of the industry? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I ask that you convey my question to the  President. 
It relates to the delivery of newspapers to Parliament House. I cannot recall ever receiving my copy of the  West Australian  before midafternoon on the day it is produced, and for some reason Wednesday's edition arrives on the afternoon of the day following its production. I have not yet received either yesterday's or today's editions. I believe this to be a question of priorities in the transport and delivery system. Connecting planes leave Perth well after the newspaper is produced and they arrive each day in Canberra quite early in the morning. I ask whether the  President  will investigate this matter with a view to helping those of us who regard the  West Australian  as a valuable source of information. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  I will convey the honourable senator's question to the  President. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Science, relates to the adoption by the International Civil Aviation Organisation of InterScan, the aircraft landing system invented and developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Department of Transport. Can the Minister give me an assurance that Australian business and Australians generally will be the main beneficiaries of the manufacture and fitting of this system following its worldwide adoption? Can the Minister give me an estimate of the financial benefit to Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, without notice, on 5 April 1978: 
I direct the Minister's attention to the report of the Australian Science and Technology Council entitled 'Energy Research and Development in Australia', which was tabled in the Senate yesterday. Two of the recommendations state: 
An organisational structure is necessary and should be established without delay to expand activity in energy research, development and demonstration. 
An Australian Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Authority (AERDDA) should be appointed as quickly as possible, with terms of reference as outlined. 
I also refer the Minister to the main recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources in its report on solar energy. The Committee recommended that:  . . the Commonwealth Government establish a statutory body to be called the Australian Energy Commission to have an overall responsibility for developing and co-ordinating long term Australian energy policy. 
Will the Minister indicate whether the Government has any plans to act on these recommendations? 
-I remind the Minister for Science of a question I asked on 6 April which referred to what I saw as a breakdown in the cyclone warning system during the progress of cyclone Alby. This cyclone caused much damage and loss of life in the south-west of Western Australia. During his answer the Minister indicated that he would obtain further information. Is the Minister now in a position to supply further information to the Senate? 
I intend to take some little time to address myself to some of the matters mentioned by  Senator Walsh.  It is rather sad that  Senator 
Walsh is such a portrayer of doom. There are two things that are guaranteed when  Senator Walsh  makes a speech in this place: Firstly he predicts doom; secondly, he criticises  Sir Charles  Court. He manages to work in those two things in every speech he makes in the Senate. Also, almost invariably, there is nothing constructive in what he says. He managed to include those three criteria in his speech tonight. He said that the Government is somehow responsible for increasing the production of sugar in Queensland and northern New South Wales. I cannot see how that could have happened. If the Government was responsible for increasing the production of sugar during the period of high sugar prices I congratulate it. It should not be condemned for that. That is a normal state of affairs. But I cannot see how this affects by one iota the price of sugar on the world market, which was the point  Senator Walsh  was trying to make. 
I agree that as a result of high world prices, production increases all over the world. In agreeing with that, I fail to see how Australia can control the situation at all.  Senator Walsh  made great play of the fact that the agreement does not include the European Economic Community. I agree that that is a serious shortfall in the agreement. But how does the honourable senator suggest that we get the EEC to become a party to the agreement?  Senator Walsh  tends to ignore the beneficial effect of the agreement. It gives a great deal of benefit to the sugar industry in Australia. First of all, there are the long term sale agreements that will be made as a result of this agreement, and then there is the buffer stock which will be stockpiled to overcome the shortfalls and the surpluses which will arise from the agreement. 

 Senator Walsh spent quite some time talking about the Ord. He referred to the figure of $300 per tonne as being the cost of production. I am not in a position to check the figure or to guarantee that it is correct. I suggest that the cost of production is substantially lower than the figure cited, given the fact that the Ord River dam is already built. I suggest that the honourable senator from the way he worked out his figure, tried to pay off the total cost of the dam in the first year of production. I would have to receive a lot more detail from  Senator Walsh  before I would agree with the figure of $300 a tonne as being the cost of production. I will deal with the situation in the Ord later. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland seemed to devote almost all of his speech to dealing with a matter which had nothing whatsoever to do with the Bill. He talked a great deal about the efforts of the CSR Ltd to sell its sugar mill in northern New South Wales to a group of producers. I understand that the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party is in favour of co-operatives. I have been a director of a co-operative for many years. I think that in some areas a co-operative represents a beneficial way of running things. I fail to see how the honourable senator can equate CSR holding the gun at the head of growers on the one hand and reducing the sugar price from $20m to $5. 5m a tonne on the other hand. I was in the Clarence River area a few weeks ago talking to many of the sugar growers. It is my firm belief that the growers have wanted to purchase the CSR sugar mill for many years. 
I turn to the Bill. It is not my intention to speak a great deal about the provisions of the Bill.  Senator Wood,  my colleague from Queensland, covered some aspects of it.  Senator Maunsell,  also a colleague from Queensland, will be covering those aspects as well. It is sufficient to say that the agreement involves countries which represent about 84 per cent of the free market trade in sugar. As I have said the major exception is the EEC. It is rather sad that that is the situation because the EEC, as a bloc, is the largest single producer of sugar in the world. It is in a position to make a major disruption to the whole of this agreement. As I said before in response to  Senator Walsh's  remarks, we cannot do anything about making the EEC become a party to the agreement. It was a major accomplishment to get the United States of America to become a party to the agreement in the first place. 
It is a serious matter that the EEC is not a party to the agreement. This creates a tremendous threat to our sugar producers as it does to many of our other rural producers. It has been a tradition of the EEC countries in more recent years to highly subsidise their rural production. When they get what has to be an automatic surplus of production they dump it on the world market and undercut our traditional trading partners. The Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  returned from the EEC today. I certainly hope that he has been able to achieve some results from his efforts in that area. The EEC is a very inward looking concept. I do not think that the concept will be of ultimate benefit to the countries in the Community, let alone to the rest of the world. 
It is pretty well known that I adopt the philosophy of free trade. I firmly believe that any market controls create distortions in the market, but I believe, on the other hand, that international agreements are almost universally beneficial.  Major buyers  of a particular commodity can undercut one producer against another and thus force down the prices on the world market. I was fortunate to be able to spend some three weeks on the east coast of Queensland last year. I had a good look at the sugar industry. I do not consider myself to be an expert on the industry. It is certainly interesting to have a close look at it. More importantly, the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources, of which I am  Chairman,  spent several days in the north of New South Wales and along the Queensland coast recently. We conducted public inquiries into our reference from the Senate on the Commonwealth 's role in the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia's water resources. The visit took place in response to the Committee's receiving many submissions from Queensland sugar producers. The sugar industry, from what little I saw of it, seems to be extremely well organised. It is reputed to be one of the most efficient in the world. It is certainly attractive. When I was there last year the sugar cane was just out in flower. One of the most beautiful agricultural sights I have seen was the waving flowers on thousands of acres of sugar cane. The industry is tightly controlled by the mills themselves and by the CSR. I believe that has been one of the secrets of its success. 
The industry has problems with water. We were there to find out the problems. The problems have come about because of an increase in production and a rapid increase in the usage of water from underground aquifers. Irrigation is necessary to overcome the frequent dry spells which occur in the growing period. Irrigation is putting quite a serious stress on town water supplies. Queensland has on the coast large cities which are growing quickly. Demands on water are increasing at a great rate. It is a serious problem to try to overcome what is potentially quite a disastrous water shortage problem, lt is significant that the requests for finance to increase the water supply have not been made to enable increased planting to take place; they have been made merely to mitigate against the effects of quite frequent droughts. That is an important matter to remember. 

 Senator Walsh mentioned the potential sugar cane production in the Ord River area. I do not hold it against anybody for carrying out investigations into that possibility. I am personally not confident that sugar cane production is the solution to the immense problems of the Ord River area. An investigation into the possibly of sugar cane production in the area will do no harm. Who knows what the future holds for the price of sugar? I see a great potential in the area for growing sugar cane to produce liquid fuel. I strongly support a proposal to conduct an investigation into that question. The area is remote from the larger cities in Australia, it is increasing in size and its requirements for liquid fuel are growing. It is quite close to the iron ore producing areas of the Pilbara. If they could produce reasonably economically liquid fuel from sugar cane or other materials, that would be quite a major contribution to remedying our potential liquid fuel shortage in Australia. It is quite well known that Tasmanians, who always seem to be optimistic, say that there is a potential for sugar beet in their State. No doubt they can grow sugar beet, but in the present period when there is a surplus of sugar in the world I doubt that it can be justified economically. 
I strongly support the Bill. I reject the amendment. For the reasons I mentioned at the beginning of my address, I reject almost everything  Senator Walsh  said. I would suggest to  Senator Douglas  McClelland that in future he should talk about the Bill instead of discussing something totally unrelated to it. Finally, I congratulate the Government on reaching the standard of agreement that it has reached at this stage. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. My attention has been directed to an article which appears in today's issue of the  Australian Financial Review  and which is entitled: 'Surprise US vote alters Austn beef outlook '. If I may, I read briefly from the article: 
The Senate has voted for a law which, had it been in effect over the past 10 years, would have reduced beef imports by 26 per cent, according to one US Government study. 
Half of US beef imports come from Australia. 
Further on the article states: 
The legislation was sponsored by  Senator Lloyd  Bentsen, a Democrat from Texas- where the cattle industry is almost a religion. 
It would change the law that has controlled US meat imports since 1 964. 
In view of the importance of the United States beef market to Australia, will the Minister check on the accuracy of this article? If the article is correct, will the Minister draw this matter to the attention of the  Hon.  Vic. Garland, the Minister for Special Trade Representations? 
It is with pleasure that I enter the debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, which the Senate is debating concurrently with the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. I should like to deal briefly with some of the comments made by  Senator Walsh.  It is rather interesting that  Senator Walsh  took the line that he did. He made a more constructive speech than he normally does and I congratulate him for it. However, the reasons he put forward for the Opposition opposing this Bill seemed quite technical to me and were not convincing at all. It is well known that when the Labor Party was in government it set out as fast as it could to export uranium with nothing like the safeguards that are proposed in this legislation. It is obvious that 

 Senator Walsh takes the right wing Labor view exemplified by the  President  of the Labor Party, Bob Hawke, and not the view taken by people like  Mr Uren  and some honourable senators who will be speaking during the debate on this Bill. 
The Government is determined to enforce these safeguards, and it was suggested by  Senator Walsh  that that might not be so. One example of this determination that has already been reported in the Press indicates that one foreign country has gone home empty handed because it could not comply with the conditions laid down by the Federal Government. With regard to the subject of waste storage in Australia, I reiterate that the Government has made a firm commitment that it will not store waste from overseas. I would like to dispel any argument on that score. It is the Government's firm undertaking that the Commonwealth of Australia will not store any waste from overseas. There are no plans whatsoever for the use of uranium in Australia, apart from the very small use to which uranium has been put over the last 20 years in the production of isotopes for medical purposes.  Senator Walsh  suggested that we should be putting more effort into coal. The environmentalists, who are sincere on this issue, will point out to  Senator Walsh  and to others that the use of coal can be more damaging to the environment than the use of uranium. 
-Yes, there is a lot of rubbish from coal. One of the points that is forgotten by the Opposition is that, whether we like it or not, some 27 countries have made a firm commitment to use uranium. If we did not participate in the marketing of uranium we would be denying those countries energy that they so badly need. In addition, if we did not participate in the marketing of uranium we would have absolutely no control over its use throughout the world, no control over safeguards, weapons proliferation, and all those problems. By taking such a firm stand the Government has exerted a tremendous influence over the use of uranium in the world.  Senator Walsh  mentioned some of the objections put forward by the States. I point out to the honourable senator and to the Opposition that those objections are only in relation to the codes that we establish. I am sure that through consultation we will overcome those difficulties. That is not to say that there are not difficulties in regard to the Northern Territory's involvement in these Bills, and I intend later in my speech to address myself to those matters. 
I support the Bill before the Senate. However, I do not support the present form of the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill or the Environmental Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill. I worked fairly closely with  Senator Kilgariff  on some suggested amendments, and I hope sincerely that the Government will accept some of those amendments and allow me to support the Bills. The purpose of the proposed amendments is to give the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly some involvement in environment protection and some control of parks and wildlife in the Northern Territory. Some weeks ago I visited Darwin and the site of the Ranger and Pancontinental uranium mines in company with  Senator Kilgariff. Senator Walters, Senator Messner, Senator Baume  and  Senator Collard.  We spent about six days in the Northern Territory, with two days at the actual mine sites. During our stay we met representatives of the Northern Land Council, the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory, Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd, Pancontinental Mining Ltd, and the Northern Territory National Parks and Wildlife Commission. 
We drove from Darwin to Jabiru, the site of the Ranger deposits, a distance of about 260 kilometres through some of the most beautiful country I have seen in Australia. We spent one and a half days on the sites of the uranium mines and flew back from Jabiru to Darwin, detouring through the beautiful range country around Arnhem Land and Mount Brockman. We were fortunate in that the wet season has just ended and the flood plains were still at their maximum beauty. The birds and flowers, the ranges and escarpments around Arnhem Land and Mount Brockman, and in particular the Jim Jim Falls, are certainly worth seeing. Those areas contain some of the most beautiful country we have in Australia. Unfortunately, I did not visit the Queensland Mines Ltd site at Nabarlek, but I understand that the country in that area is also very beautiful. 
I was particularly impressed by the responsible attitude taken by the mining companies in that area. They have a tremendous feeling for the land. They conduct different studies. They are certainly terribly conscious of the preservation of the environment. People with expertise are employed by the mining companies to do all they possibly can to preserve the very valuable environment. Pancontinental also employs a man called  Mr Bob  Randall who is an Aboriginal. He was raised and has spent most of his life in the area around Jabiluka. He is employed mainly for the purpose of instructing the people, who will be working for the mining companies in that area in the Aboriginal cultures and to appreciate the significance of that land to the Aboriginals.  His  job is to bring home to those people who are working in that area the importance that area has for the Aboriginal people. Bob Randall is a very fine person. It is rather interesting to note that during the whole of the time that we spent in that area he and his family were the only Aboriginal persons we saw. 
A remarkably small area is involved in this mining venture. About two weeks ago I spent a whole day looking over the Latrobe Valley area in Victoria where a gigantic project to increase the production of brown coal is being embarked upon. Whereas the Pancontinental mine, which is the richest known deposit of uranium in the world, would fit into an area less than one kilometre square, the area covered by this enormous projected mine in the Latrobe Valley is many hundreds of times larger than that. The Latrobe Valley has some of the best dairying country in Australia. Land in the area sells for about $ 1 ,000 per acre. Yet I have not heard one person protest about what could be regarded by some environmentalists as the misuse of that very valuable land. Yet we have had an enormous amount of protest from ill-informed people from all over the world about the mining of what is a very small area of the Northern Territory. 
I have a tremendous sympathy for the mining companies in the Northern Territory. Already they have spent many millions of dollars. It will be some years before they get any possible return at all from that money. Pancontinental in particular has not even been permitted to build an all-weather road to the site of their land, and that creates a tremendous disadvantage for that company, lt has tens of thousands of dollars of machinery which is lying around idle. It cannot do anything until the Government and the Northern Land Council come to some agreement. An example of that is that we were told when we were at Pancontinental 's Jabiluka site that the site originally chosen for the tailings dam has been found to be fairly unsuitable and that it would like to investigate a new area for siting its tailings dam. The present restrictions placed on the company by the Northern Land Council and the Federal Government prevent the company from doing any investigation or drilling at all in the area in order to work out a suitable substituted area for its tailings dam. 
I say by way of general comment that in my opinion the Bill will go a long way to allowing mining to begin. The important point is that much of the preparation work which will have to be done before mining commences will have to be done in the dry season which is just beginning now. If it is not completed in that time the whole project will be put back by at least 12 months. The difficulty is that once the preparation work commences and the mining commences it will be some years before the production of yellowcake can actually begin. If we miss out on taking advantage of the coming dry season, it will mean that our present commitments of yellowcake to overseas purchasers will not be met. We have sufficient yellowcake stored in Australia only to meet commitments for a very few months. If the uranium project does not get off the ground very quickly we will not be able to meet our present commitments. 
I will not speak any longer. My colleague,  Senator Young,  who is  Chairman  of the Government parties National Resources Committee, will have a great deal to contribute to the debate. He has much more expertise in this area than I have. In conclusion, I wish the Bill a speedy passage, and I commend it to the Senate. 
We are debating the following matter of public importance which has been brought before the Senate by  Senator Keeffe: 
The need for a clear declaration of government policy on granting to Aboriginals and Islanders inalienable title to their traditional lands. 
That is the stated matter which we are supposed to be discussing.  Senator Georges  dropped a hint when he spoke. Certainly, from the remarks of Opposition senators it would seem that the real reason for the debate is an attempt to force a wedge between  Senator Bonner  and other Government supporters. 
It is fairly obvious.  Senator Georges  alluded to it quite deliberately. That is the only sense I can draw from this debate at all. I say to the Opposition and to the people of Australia that I support  Senator Bonner  strongly in the actions he has taken. He is one of my very good friends, and I believe he enjoys the support of all Government supporters. For the benefit of Opposition senators I would like to read the policy of the Liberal-National Country Parties, as stated during the 1975 election campaign: 
The coalition parties recognise that Aboriginal affinity with the land is fundamental. 
In relation to the Northern Territory, there were commitments, as follows: 
Recognition of the rights of some tribal clans and reserve communities in the Northern Territory can be satisfied by granting title to their traditional areas of land . . . 
The Liberal and National Country Parties recognise the right of Aborigines to the lands located within the reserves in the Northern Territory. 
Outside the Northern Territory, commitments were stated: 
For others, alternative forms of land and housing 'rights' need to be negotiated . . . clearly a variety of solutions are required to meet these various land demands and associated needs . . . make land available to tribal and  detribalised  Aborigines by allocating money to the Aboriginal Land Fund. 

 Senator Robertson had a great deal of difficulty in working out, as he put it, which of our statements he wanted to read. I would recommend that he take note of the Government's actions, as some measure of its determination to follow its policy. There can be no doubt that we have legislated- something that the Labor Government failed to do- for Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory. Moreover, we provided money for the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the purchase of land outside reserves. Apart from those who hold an extreme point of view, there can be no doubt that most Australians are quite happy with the Aboriginal situation in the Northern Territory. It seems fairly obvious that the problem relates to certain areas in Queensland. There can be no doubt that in the Northern Territory Aboriginals do have inalienable title. Later, if time permits, I will demonstrate that that is the situation in Western Australia also. Let me quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  on 4 June 1976 when the Aboriginal Land Rights Bill was before the House of Representatives. The Minister stated: 
This Bill will give traditional Aborigines inalienable freehold title to land on reserves in the Northern Territory and provide machinery for them to obtain title to traditional land outside reserves. The coalition Parties' policy on Aboriginal affairs clearly acknowledges that affinity with the land is fundamental to Aborigines ' sense of identity and recognises the right of Aborigines to obtain title to lands located within the reserves in the Northern Territory. The Bill gives effect to that policy and, further, will provide Aborigines in the Northern Territory with the opportunity to claim and receive title to traditional Aboriginal land outside reserves. The Government believes that this Bill will allow and encourage Aborigines in the Northern Territory to give full expression to the affinity with land that characterised their traditional society and gave a unique quality to their life. 
That was the first paragraph of the Minister's speech, and nothing could be clearer. The land trusts that have been established by this Government, and also the Northern Land Council of the Northern Territory, have tremendous power. In fact, in common with other Government senators, I have received numerous complaints from mining companies which have found it extremely difficult- as indeed it should be- to deal with these people. In some cases I sympathise with them, because in the Northern Territory it is a completely new ball game. I would underline the point so ably made by  Senator Baume,  that the Federal Labor Government had three years in which to take action and did nothing. Perhaps one should rather say that it did do something- it spent a lot of money wastefully. 
In the State of Western Australia, which I represent, land trusts have been established to control Aboriginal reserves. In fact, those reserves comprise some 20,412,000 hectares or, 204,120 square kilometres. That is an enormous amount of land, and it is under control, without reservation, of the land trust. To demonstrate how much it is under the control of the Aboriginals, let me say that fairly recently three mining companies wished to explore in the Kimberley area but, because of the power of the land trust, only one was permitted to do so. That demonstrates the power that the Aboriginal people have over their land; a power that, in many cases, exceeds that which the primary producer, the farmer, has over his own freehold land. 
If I could make some general comments in the brief time remaining to me, I would say first that to hear Opposition supporters one would believe that spending more money, and giving more Aboriginal land rights, are the only solutions to the Aboriginal problem in Australia. I do not agree with that at all. Money is not a solution and, although land is important to Aboriginals, land rights are not the solution either. I have had a considerable experience with Aboriginal people and recently witnessed something rather upsetting in one of the northern Pilbara towns of 
Western Australia, where my wife and I spent a couple of days. Early one morning we visited a hostel where bright, clean, happy-looking Aboriginal children were crossing the road to school. We then drove down the street and, about half an hour later, saw drunken Aboriginals consuming their first carton of hot beer at the kerb. It was a very disturbing experience. In my opinion the task facing not just the Government but the people of Australia is to ensure that those bright, happy children that we saw going to school will not become what their older relatives have become. It is a difficult problem and I am sure that no one pretends to have the answer to it. Some answers have been advanced, but I have not yet heard anyone come up with one that is adequate. 
Unfortunately, a backlash is building up in the community and, unless we are very careful, it will become quite strong. This Government has been accused, and certainly the Labor Government has been accused, of spending money indiscriminately on the Aboriginal people. I do not agree with the backlash but it is there and if we are not careful will become quite a force in Australia. I strongly suggest that the Government have a close look at the definition of 'Aboriginal'. The backlash is developing in relation to those Aboriginals who have been assimilated into white society; who are fitting into it very well indeed. Many of my friends can be included in that category. The Government should define what is a tribal Aboriginal and what is an Aboriginal who has been integrated with white society. We are talking about two different people. The Government is very much in favour of the gradual integration of Aborigines into white society and supports that policy very hard. We say that we want the Aboriginal people to integrate at their own pace. We do not want to force them into a particular situation if they are not ready for it. In fact, we very strongly recognise that the tribal people, who are the original occupiers of the land, have a wonderful society and a wonderful method of living and controlling their lives that must be preserved at all costs. What better place to do it than in the areas of land that we have set aside for them and that they will be controlling themselves. 
On the one hand we must encourage the Aboriginal people to integrate into our society and to accept to so-called benefits of our society. On the other hand, those who are not ready or those who do not wish to integrate must be allowed to run their lives in the way they think fit. One factor that is causing a backlash is that there are many white people in our society who do not receive any of the benefits that the Aboriginal people receive and who, in many cases, are in just as much need as the Aboriginal people. That is a very sad fact of life. Certainly, it is very evident in the country towns which I visit. This situation reinforces my argument that some attempt must be made by the Government to redefine the definition of 'Aboriginal'. I suggest that the definition should distinguish between tribal Aboriginals and Aboriginals who are integrating into our society. 
Finally I make the point that, although the Australian Labor Party did not succeed in doing anything for the Aboriginal people during the three years it was in government, there is no doubt that it tried. As  Senator Cavanagh  pointed out, it had some legislation prepared. However, there is no doubt that the Labor Party has no time at all for one of the most important policies that this Government is adopting, that is, the policy of co-operative federalism. Under this policy the Commonwealth takes notice of the States. It consults with them and tries to bring them into discussions. When in government, the Labor Party was hell-bent upon, firstly, removing local government and then upon removing the State governments. Is it any wonder that the Labor Party is still saying that the only way to solve the land rights problem is to acquire all the land. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I refer to an announcement by the State Minister for Education in Western Australia,  Mr Peter  Jones M.L.A., which was reported in the Press last Monday in which he criticised the Schools Commission report on per capita funding of government schools. I ask the Minister: Firstly, was the amount received by Western Australia in the years 1976, 1977 and 1978 approximately $20 a student less than that received by New South Wales and Victoria? Secondly, will the Commission's recommendation for 1979, which would give Western Australia approximately $8 a student less than New South Wales and Victoria, be implemented? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the facts in this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. Last week I was privileged to sample some excellent red wine produced by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I was told that the grape variety from which the wine was produced was bred by CSIRO and that it is suitable for growing in warmer districts. Does the Minister see this grape variety as being of significance to Australian producers? Does he predict that it will be of particular importance to the Swan Valley District of Western Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. On 7 March this year I received an answer from the Minister regarding overcrowding at Perth Airport which indicated to me that the Government did not regard this matter as urgent. Would the Minister be prepared to suggest to the Minister whom he represents in the Senate that this matter should be treated with more urgency than that which seems to prevail now? I am informed that the planned 1985 capacity peak was reached in 1969 and that the passenger traffic has grown considerably since that time. By no stretch of the imagination could the terminal be regarded as adequate now, let alone by the end of the period it would take to plan and to build the extensions. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry will be aware of the tragic situation being experienced by northern Australian cattle producers caused by the imposition of the bluetongue quarantine. Has the Government any plans to relieve this situation, which is outside the control of the affected producers? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and follows the question asked earlier by  Senator Wright.  When the Minister is obtaining figures on rural incomes will he attempt to quantify the effect of drought as well as the other factors mentioned? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Government given serious consideration to the introduction of a minimum income or negative income tax system instead of the present social security system? Will the Minister agree that the system would be more efficient and equitable than the present social security system? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. It will be recalled during the recent debate on supplementary grants to education Labor speakers claimed that when their Party was in government it did not reduce capital spending on schools. Will the Minister supply the facts of this matter to the Senate? 
We are debating the Primary Industry Bank Amendment Bill 1978 which seeks to amend the Australian Rural Bank Act. I shall deal, first of all, with some of the matters raised by  Senator Walsh.  Before dealing with the comments he made in the debate today, I shall refer briefly to some of the comments he made last night. He made quite a vicious attack on  Sir William  Vines. I thought that attack was completely unwarranted.  His  defence of his statements last night was very weak, to say the least. In spite of what Professor Lloyd said in his book, there is an argument to be made out that, in the case of wool, supply and demand laws do not apply. I have had several discussions with leading members of the Australian Wool Corporation who will support that point of view. In regard to the honourable senator's claim that, because of the actions of  Mr Mick  Cotter, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie in the other place, the Liberal member for the Tom Price area- 
In the first comment that  Senator Walsh  made in his speech today he claimed that the Government was rushing through legislation in the dying hours of the Parliamentary session. He and other honourable senators will recall the complete waste of time this morning and the complete waste of time over the last few weeks when Opposition senators have proposed matters of so-called public importance. We have heard members of the Opposition filibustering for weeks. The Government has not gagged debate and it does not intend to apply the guillotine to any Bills unless the Opposition makes  it  completely impossible for it to complete the program of legislation. Plenty of time has been allowed for consideration of legislation and there is absolutely no intention of gagging the debate on any Bills. 

 Senator Walsh complained that there had been delays in bringing this matter before the Senate, but those delays are understandable. This is a completely new matter, and I would be the first to criticise the Government if it were not given full consideration. I was fortunate to be a member of the back bench committee which considered this matter in great detail, and I can assure the Senate that it was only after a great deal of consideration and time that we reached our conclusions and made our recommendations to the Government. 

 Senator Walsh contradicted himself quite amazingly when he tried to claim that this Bill will not provide any substantial change in the interest rate. I point out to him, in case he does not know, that the only money available at the moment on up to 30-year terms is lent at extremely high interest rates, much higher than those which the proposed bank will be charging. Although it has not been stated yet, 1 suspect that there will be at least a 3 per cent or 4 per cent reduction in interest rates under the proposed new bank compared with what is available now for long-term lending. Many of the details of the new bank will not be worked out until the board is formed. I think that that is a perfectly reasonable proposition. Let me also point out to  Senator Walsh,  who tried to claim that the proposed bank will perform no useful function, that much of the information I have received from rural organisations is completely to the contrary. There is a serious gap in rural lending as long-term funds are not available. Whereas many items that are purchased by farmers can be expected to be paid off over a short term- over the normal bank term- there are many items of expenditure that cannot be expected to be financed over the short term. The Government's proposal to form this bank to provide long-term lending for farmers fills a very great gap in lending facilities. 

 Senator Walsh revealed his true thinking when he suggested in one of his final comments that control of the bank should not be in the hands of the people who are putting up the money- the shareholders. Of course, he wants to have another socialised bank. He wants another government controlled bank, similar to the disastrous proposals of the Australian Labor Party years ago in Australia. He wants the Government to take over the funding and to tie the rural community down completely to the Government's whim. 
The only effect of this amending Bill that we are debating will be a change of name. That is explained clearly in the second reading speech. The name originally suggested was the Australian Rural Bank. That conflicted with the names of some State banks in New South Wales and Western Australia. The other major change contained in this legislation is that it will require the Treasurer, when obtaining agreement from the banks, to determine the terms and conditions under which loans will be made to this bank. I think that is a perfectly reasonable change. No other substantial changes are to be made to the original legislation. The purpose of the bank is to provide long term loans to farmers and fishermen. This service will fill a much needed gap in the present lending policy. 
As  Senator Walsh  mentioned, the seven trading banks and the State rural banks will be shareholders in this bank. The Commonwealth will also be a shareholder through the Commonwealth Bank. Hopefully there will be other participants. It is to be hoped that the Commonwealth Development Bank, the pastoral houses, insurance companies and any organisation that traditionally lends money to farmers will be participants. The initial capital is to be a total of $5,625,000 and the equity shareholders will each contribute one-ninth of that amount. It is to be hoped that the bank will attract substantial loan funds on the open market. There is also provision for the Government to make quite substantial contributions to it. 
As  Senator Walsh  mentioned, its board is to be made up of 12 persons, but I will not go into that matter in any more detail. Many more details are to be worked out but, as I said before, it is quite reasonable to expect the board, when it is formed under  Mr Walter  Ives, to work them out. I would just like to warn the Government and the proposed board members that, from information I have received from grower organisations, private farmers and bank managers themselves, there will be an enormous initial demand on the facilities of this bank. No doubt the banking sector participants will try to transfer as much of their hard core debt as possible to the Primary Industry Bank. I think the directors should be forewarned of this situation. I am also afraid that many of the rural producers who have had bad seasons in the last two or three years will be looking to this bank, with quite an unreasonable amount of expectation, to solve all their problems. I think it only fair that the Government should say that it will not be a solution to everybody's problems. Of course, there is no need for me to say that there are many problems in the rural area. 
Finally, I have contacted many farmer organisations who are disappointed that their representation on the board of the bank will not be greater, but I think it is only reasonable, given the contribution from the banking sector, that those banks should be well represented. I sincerely hope that many of the problems that are experienced by rural producers in dealings with their banks at the moment will be overcome by the establishment of this bank. One of the problems facing rural producers at the moment is that in many situations bank managers do not understand rural lending. They have no experience and no expertise at all in what is quite a specialised area. I hope that when this bank is finally formed specialists in these areas will be made available to help the bank managers in handling applications for loans. I think this is very important. I remember very well that when the Commonwealth Development Bank was first formed this was done. The managers who were appointed in each State had expertise in rural lending. I would like to stress to the Government that, if this bank is to be as successful as I hope it will be, it is terribly important that the people who are responsible for it have a great deal of experience in rural situations and rural lending because that area is a specialised area. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs by reminding him that the Government established an inquiry into the fuel industry under the chairmanship of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in furtherance of a promise made by the Prime Minister during the last election campaign. When can we expect a government decision on that matter? 
I should like to refer to some of the matters that occurred to us during the inquiries of the Senate Standing Committee on Privileges. I would like to pay respect particularly to former 

 Senator Drake-Brockman who chaired the Committee and to former  Senator Wright  who played a very important part in the Committee's deliberations. For the benefit of the Senate I will briefly run through the recommendations that we made. The first recommendation concerned the definition of the precincts of Parliament House. The Committee discovered that no attempt had been made to define the precincts of Parliament House and that makes it very difficult to maintain security over the whole establishment. It was pointed out to us that the various responsibilities of the Australian Capital Territory Police and the Commonwealth Police present difficulties. That was drawn to our attention in a very clear and concise way. 
The first recommendation of the Committee was that the Parliament should attempt to define the precincts of Parliament House. The second recommendation was based on evidence that we received with reference to the Parliament of Westminster in which, under sessional orders, a certain motion is moved. That motion is printed in the report and I need not repeat it, but I would recommend that honourable senators study it. It is recommended that at the commencement of each parliamentary session the Parliament should establish the police authority that is to protect the parliament. 
The third matter that we considered concerned the dual duties of the Australian Capital Territory police and the Commonwealth police. We appreciate that the Mark report is before the Parliament and that it recommends that the two police forces be amalgamated. Accordingly, there is little we can do until the Government makes a decision on that report. 
The next recommendation concerned the establishment of a permanent security coordinator. As is probably well known to honourable senators,  Mr Worth  is filling that position on a temporary basis. It is our firm recommendation that it should be made permanent; that the coordinator should be directly responsible to the Presiding Officers; and that in cases of emergency he should be able to act on his own initiative. It was pointed out that an emergency situation, in which the co-ordinator would not have the time or ability to contact the Presiding Officers, could occur. 
The next matter is doubtless of great interest to  Senator Georges,  who has expressed strong feelings concerning it. I understand that he will be speaking when I conclude. It has to do with the identification of members of Parliament. It was pointed out that in most other parliaments of the world members wear an identification badge. I have had an opportunity of seeing such badges worn in the Diet of Japan. 
I must say, in that regard, that on many occasions  Senator Georges  wears oddly shaped badges representing odd organisations. In fact, I have seen him on television wearing some rather strange badges representing some very strange people, so it should not be very different for the honourable senator to wear an identification badge indicating that he is a member of the Senate of Australia. The Committee recommended unanimously that that practice be adopted in this Parliament also. 
With regard to the admission of visitors, the Committee believes that once a signature has been obtained from a visitor and from the member of Parliament who admits him, it should no longer be necessary for the member to be responsible for him; that if, in the opinion of the member, he is of such standing as to be suitable for admission to the precincts of Parliament House he should be regarded as suitable to be allowed to find his own way out, and his own way around the Parliament. 
The final recommendation concerned what  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright criticised so strongly: The undesirability of having too many people around the entrance doors of Parliament House. He used the term 'garrison' in describing the concept of having a group of officers at the various doors of Parliament House and convinced the committee that, except in cases of emergency, it was not necessary to have at each door more than perhaps two parliamentary officers and one police officer. 
The committee considered this general subject in great detail. It had many meetings and heard much evidence. I refer particularly to the evidence given to the Committee by  Mr Fleming,  who is attached to the Department of Administrative Services, and by  Mr Worth,  who is the acting co-ordinator for the security of Parliament House at the moment, as well as the evidence given by the officers of the Senate and the House of Representatives, who provided much useful information. We also had evidence from senior officers of the Commonwealth Police as well as officers of the Australian Capital Territory Police. We were very grateful for the assistance we received from the staff of the Committee. I wish to say again that the report was a unanimous one. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. It was recently announced that a significant breakthrough had been made with regard to the development of nuclear fusion. Can the Minister give the Senate some details? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It follows a question relating to emission control asked by  Senator Young  yesterday. Can the Minister confirm that each State can set its own emission standards with regard to motor vehicles? Would the Minister relay to the Minister he represents the suggestion that because of the recommendations contained in the first report of the Energy Advisory Committee he investigate the practicability of the different parts of Australia adopting different emission standards? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications which relates to citizen band radio. Is it true that only one officer is available in Western Australia to investigate complaints against interference from CB radio? Would the Minister agree that the delay of many months before complaints can be investigated is unsatisfactory and that the problem is becoming more serious because of the increase in the use of CB radio and because of the increase in the illegal and, in many cases, dangerous broadcasting of so-called pirate calls? 
-I present a report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources of its inquiry into the Commonwealth 's role in the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia 's water resources. 
Ordered that the report be printed.  Senator THOMAS-  by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I present this report with pride and pleasure. I commend it to the Senate, to the Government and to the people of Australia. I would like to thank members of the Committee with great sincerity for the interest and co-operation which they showed during the quite lengthy inquiry. 
The Committee is sorry to lose  Senator Townley  and  Senator McAuliffe  but it welcomes with a great deal of anticipation and pleasure  Senator Teague  and  Senator Tate.  On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank  Mr Charles  Edwards, the Committee Secretary, who did his usual outstanding job and Derek Abbott who came on the scene a bit later on. I would also like to thank Rob Alison who was a member of the Committee secretariat for some time. 
The reference for this important inquiry was put down in December 1976. The Committee held public hearings beginning in August 1977. In all the Committee held 10 days of public hearings and 61 individual persons gave evidence; also, 8 1 submissions were received by the Committee. We conducted six field inspections. On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank those individuals and organisations, particularly officers from government departments, who gave submissions. 
The Committee came down with a large number of recommendations- 34 in all- and many supplementary recommendations. With the forbearance of the Senate I would like to read the summary at the beginning of the report which sets out the position that was taken by the Committee. The report states: 
Under the Australian constitution the responsibility for water matters rests with the States. The only specific areas of Commonwealth responsibility are in respect of meteorological observations, Commonwealth Territories and Foreign Affairs. 
The Commonwealth has only been involved in the development of water resources in co-operation with the States since the Australian Water Resources Council was established some thirteen years ago. The Commonwealth's role during this time has expanded in co-operation with the States particularly as a funding agent based primarily upon the financial assistance provisions of Section 96 of the Constitution. 
Although the Commonwealth's role in the field of water resources is relatively small it is potentially of great effect and the Committee considers it to be a very important role. A review, upgrading and continuation of the Commonwealth "s activities in water resources is necessary. 
There has been a trend in recent years by the States to consolidate responsibility for water matters within a single department or authority to facilitate future planning, development and management. 
As yet there has been no similar development at the Commonwealth level. There are currently over twenty different Commonwealth departments and agencies involved with water. Although the Department of National Development has primary responsibility there is a need to reduce the number of Commonwealth departments and agencies involved in water matters. 
The Committee is very critical of the past ad hoc approach taken by the Commonwealth and the uncompleted projects in Queensland and the Ord River scheme in Western Australia are examples of what should not be allowed to occur again. There needs to be a change of emphasis and approach to the funding of large State water resources projects by the Commonwealth. Under the previous water resources program the terms and conditions were contained in correspondence between the Commonwealth and States and were usually not made public. The nation 's best interests will be better served if the Commonwealth has a clearly stated water resources policy setting out the areas, terms and conditions upon which it will provide financial assistance to the States for capital works. The recent National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Act 1978 will assist in achieving this provided it is supported by the introduction of a Commonwealth water resources policy and program aimed at achieving the objectives of the Australian Water Resources Council national approach to water resources management. 
The Committee recommends that Commonwealth policy and non-policy activities be separated and that a Bureau of Water Resources be established as an independent statutory body and be responsible for all non-policy functions. It would be based on an upgraded and expanded secretariat to service the Australian Water Resources Council. This bureau also could be given a degree of technical expertise by incorporating some functions currently being undertaken by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and Bureau of Meteorology. 
The role of the Bureau of Meteorology is of paramount importance in the assessment and planning of water resources but the position persists where the Bureau is not located within a resource Department. Meteorology is one of the few areas where the Commonwealth has a direct constitutional role but it has not been given the support that it warrants. In recent years this has seriously reduced the Bureau 's ability to meet the ever increasing demands being made on it. The Committee recognises that the area of water resources is only a part of the present responsibilities of the Bureau of Meteorology but for the purpose of carrying out its responsibilities with regard to water resources, the Committee recommends that the Bureau of Meteorology be shifted from the Department of Science and established as an independent statutory authority responsible to the Minister for National Development. 
The Committee considers that there should be a clear statement of the Commonwealth 's acceptance or otherwise of the objectives of the national water policy statement agreed to by the Australian Water Resources Council in October 1975. At present the Commonwealth does not have a stated water resources policy based on a clear overall strategy to achieve stated Commonwealth objectives. 
I commend the report to the Senate. 
-With a great deal of pleasure I direct my first question to  Senator the  Honourable Frederick Chaney, the new Minister for Administrative Services. I preface my question by referring to the Government's decision to amalgamate the Commonwealth Police and the Australian Capital Territory Police, which was a recommendation of the Mark report. I also draw to the Minister's attention the recent Senate Privileges Committee report on the security of Parliament House. When is the amalgamation likely to take place and what procedures will be undertaken with regard to the selection and appointment of the commissioner of the new Australian federal police force.? 

 - Mr President, I direct my question to you. It relates to the delivery of the  West Australian  newspaper to Parliament House. You may recall that I asked you a question on this matter on 13 March this year and that in your answer then you said that the reason for the delay in delivery to Parliament House of the  West Australian  was that the newspaper was not leaving Perth until midday of the day of publication. I have pursued this matter with both the circulation manager of the  West Australian  and the air cargo section of Ansett Airlines at Canberra Airport. It appears that the problem of delivery lies in the actual transport by the local contractor from Canberra airport to Parliament House. I am assured that the  West Australian  newspaper arrives in Canberra every morningwith occasional exceptions on Wednesdays- between 9.30 a.m. and 10.15 a.m. depending on the type of aircraft used on the flight from Melbourne, and that the papers stay at the airport until the local contractor collects the Melbourne and Sydney afternoon papers. Would it not be possible to have an alternative method of transportation from the airport to Parliament House, thus ensuring that the newspaper arrives many hours before the current arrival time of 4 p.m.? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface it by referring to a court case in Geraldton in Western Australia involving a light aircraft pilot who was convicted of what was referred to in the court as 'buzzing' traffic along the north-west coastal highway. As no application was lodged to revoke or suspend the pilot's licence, would the Minister consider ensuring that if necessary the law is amended to allow the courts to impose the penalty of suspension of licence for a conviction of this severity, as is the case when the driver of a motor vehicle is convicted of dangerous driving? 
I shall speak only briefly. I firstly thank  Senator McLaren  not only for his remarks but also for the enthusiasm which he portrayed in the investigation of this important subject. He, together with  Senator Robertson  and  Senator Maunsell,  showed special interest in this matter, and I would thank them for their contribution. I personally, in common with other Chairmen of Senate standing committees, appreciate the new policy that has been announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the relevant Minister will respond to these reports. I assure  Senator McLaren  that I shall be pushing as hard as possible for the adoption of not only that part of the report but all of its recommendations. 
We have a good precedent in that the first inquiry that was carried out by the Committee, upon its establishment in March 1976, was into solar energy, and all of its major recommendations on that subject have been adopted by the Government. I would also mention that currently the Committee is investigating the adequacy of quarantine and other control measures to protect the Australian pastoral industry from the introduction of exotic livestock and plant diseases. There is no doubt in my mind- certainly there is none in the minds of my Committee- that we could not do anywhere near the job that we do without the assistance of the staff. We are all pretty busy and have other duties to perform in the Senate, and the staff renders extremely valuable assistance to us. 
The terms of reference of this inquiry into water resources underline a problem that is not shared by other committees: Almost without exception, areas of natural resources come within the purview and /or responsibility of the States. Most of the matters that are looked at by other committees are within the responsibility of the Commonwealth. This fact was strongly underlined in regard to the question of water resources. The two main parts of the terms of reference- apart from the requirement to look at the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia's water resourceswere to examine in detail the diverse responsibilities of the Commonwealth and the States, and the national water policy statement recently endorsed by the Australian Water Resources Council. 
It took us about 18 months to complete the inquiry. We received 80-odd submissions and 40 organisations, represented by 61 persons, presented further evidence to us. The largest single group which gave evidence to the Committee was from the sugar producing area of Queensland. I pointed out to them- not being completely facetious- that when they ran out of water in Queensland the Ord River of Western Australia was a wonderful place to grow sugar. They did not appreciate that very much. The problem in Queensland is quite dramatic. As is well recognised, it is a highly decentralised State and these large sugar-producing areas on the coast of Queensland are becoming extremely short of water. The growth and expansion of the sugar industry when world prices were very high encouraged the rapid development of the industry of those major cities along the coast- so much so that the water table is dramatically lower than it was in earlier years. Many of the aquifers are drying up and sea water is flowing in to take their place. When one thinks of towns such as Townsville, which has a population of almost 100,000, facing a critical water problem, one understands the gravity of the situation. 
Another matter which we considered, and which involves quite serious consequences, is the situation of the River Murray. No one is better equipped than is  Senator McLaren  to appreciate that fact because the State of South Australia, especially its capital city of Adelaide, is so reliant on the water from that river. The salinity problem is of major seriousness and in that regard I should like to quote briefly from the text of the report- not necessarily the recommendation- wherein we set out our concern. We consider that the River Murray Commission, as it is structured now, is totally inadequate to deal with the salinity problems of that river. The report reads: 
The Committee considers that the River Murray Commission is not an appropriate body to undertake concerted, long-term action to deal with the problems of salinity, water logging, despoliation of wetlands and saline drainage into the River Murray. The salinity problems associated with irrigation have their origin in the catchments or lands adjacent to the rivers over which the existing River Murray Commission has no control. 
The problems of the River Murray are of national significance and the Committee considers that there is an urgent and vital role for the Commonwealth in respect of the development and preservation of the River Murray Basin. The Commonwealth should take the initiative through the Australian Water Resources Council in preparing and implementing a long-term comprehensive program for the management of River Murray salinity problems including regulation of land use as well as water management. 
Then the report goes on to make specific recommendations. As I said before, the constitutional responsibility for water matters rests almost entirely with the respective States. The only areas for which the Commonwealth is specifically responsible are those of meteorological observations, in the Commonwealth Territories, and in the field of foreign affairs. It is rather interesting to recall that the Commonwealth has been involved in water matters for only a relatively short time- only since the Australian Water Resources Council was established some 1 3 years ago. The role of the Commonwealth has expanded quite dramatically since then and the financial assistance provided under section 96 grants has been the main vehicle for that assistance. I underline, particularly in regard to  Senator McLaren's  remarks, the fact that an important part of the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Act is that the Commonwealth will fund certain projects which, however, must be high on a State's list of priorities. We regard it as very important that the States themselves should support the projects that the Commonwealth wishes to support. 
One of the problems in the past- this is a matter of which the Committee was very critical- has been the ad hoc approach of the Commonwealth to major water resources projects. One does not have to look any further than the Burdekin Dam in Queensland to illustrate that point. In fact, it seems that the best way to ensure that a dam will be at least started is to hold an election. I recall one of the better known sayings of my friend Bert Kelly, the recently retired member for Wakefield who is known far and wide in Australia. When he could feel an election approaching he would say: 'I can feel a dam coming on'. 
As  Senator McLaren  said, the first of our recommendations was that the Commonwealth establish a clearly stated water resources policy. As  Senator McLaren  also said, we recommended that the policy and non-policy functions of the Commonwealth be separated. We must establish a bureau of water resources to handle the nonpolicy functions of the Commonwealth's interest in water resources. One of the important functions of the Commonwealth with regard to water resources is in the area of the Bureau of Meteorology. We were quite disappointed with the evidence we received, particularly from the States which, without exception, were quite critical of the role of the Bureau of Meteorology in the area of recording and the other areas for which it is responsible in regard to water. We recognise, of course, that the Bureau has many areas of interest other than water. For the purposes of those functions with regard to water, we recommend that the Bureau be transferred from the Department of Science into the Department of National Development and that its water functions be part of a separate independent statutory authority. 
I say again that we were particularly disturbed to find that the Commonwealth seems to lack a clearly stated water policy. This is one of the most important things we found. We made altogether 34 recommendations. There is not time tonight to go through them all. They come under several headings: The Commonwealth's role, the assessment of water resources, development and funding, research, the Australian Water Resources Council, flood mitigation and drainage and salinity. One of the recommendations was that the Government should avoid impinging on what have been and are regarded as State responsibilities. A great deal of duplication has occurred in the past, particularly in the area of the assessment of major schemes where it is recognised by the Commonwealth and the States that the main expertise rests with the States. The States have experienced people. There should not be any duplication on the part of the Commonwealth in the assessment of these major schemes. 
We also had a bit to say about the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation- another Commonwealth responsibility. The CSIRO has nine divisions which have some major or minor interest in water matters. We recommend that the Commonwealth try to concentrate its interests in water matters into fewer departments. In fact, at the moment 22 Commonwealth departments and agencies have some interest in water. The States certainly are showing us the way in this regard. They are concentrating water matters in either one or two departments. This is not happening in the Commonwealth area. It is not happening in the CSIRO or the Bureau of Meteorology. Because water is so important and will be of greater importance in the future and could be a limiting factor in many potential production areas in Australia, we recommended that CSIRO set up a separate division of water resources and, just as importantly, establish a mechanism above the divisional level to co-ordinate the work that is already going on in relation to existing water resources. 
It was an interesting inquiry. As  Senator McLaren  said, we were sorry that we did not receive submissions from the Riverland area in South Australia. That area feels the effects of the salinity in the River Murray and the shortages of water more than any other part of South Australia or any part of New South Wales or Victoria. We were grateful that the relevant Commonwealth departments were so complete in their co-operation with us. In fact, this is probably the only Senate committee inquiry that has had submissions from every State in Australia. The States have a great deal of expertise and interest in water matters. They have a constitutional role. The Committee is of the opinion that the constitutional role should be maintained. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have only a couple of comments to make in relation to the speech made by  Senator Colston  who has just resumed his seat. It is rather interesting that  Senator Colston  should show some interest in rural matters because it would surprise me if  Senator Colston  showed his face in any rural part of Australia. I say that because the Government that he supported some years ago is still well remembered for the damage that it did to the whole of the rural industry, particularly in areas in Queensland. He tried, rather laboriously, to demonstrate that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has broken his word. However, during that laborious demonstration he proved in fact that the Minister has kept his word. There is no move by the Government in this Bill to withdraw the subsidy at all. In fact, the Bill specifically states that the Government will review the level of subsidy prior to 3 1 December 1979. Therefore, although  Senator Colston  tries to suggest that this marks the end of the subsidy on nitrogenous fertiliser, that is just not true. 
We are debating the Nitrogenous Fertiliser Subsidy Amendment Bill 1978. 1 spoke at fairly great length on the Nitrogenous Fertiliser Subsidy Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 on 3 December 1976. With all modesty, I draw the Senate 's attention to those very wise words. I do not want to repeat them today. The purpose of the Bill before the Senate is to extend the operation of the existing subsidy scheme but at a rate reduced from $60 per tonne to $40 per tonne of nitrogen. This move is a result of the implementation of the Industries Assistance Commission report on nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy which was brought down on 5 September 1975. In no way can rural industries suggest that the Government has not warned them sufficiently that this would happen. The Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 to which I spoke in December 1976 laid out very well the likely effect of this subsidy. However, we have delayed the implementation of the recommendations of the IAC report for one year. It is estimated that the cost of the subsidy will be $10m. For  Senator Colston  and  Senator Walsh  to try to relate the cost of $ 10m to the other matters that they did is just to show rather extreme negligence. I shall read two of the paragraphs from the IAC report that I have mentioned. Page 3 of the summary and conclusions of the report reads: 
The evidence in this inquiry indicated that much research into new crop and grass varieties concentrated on varieties highly responsive to nitrogen and other fertilisers. In practice, highly responsive varieties tend to require heavy application of fertilisers. Since the prices of these inputs may change in the future, the Commission considers that any undue emphasis on manufactured nitrogen, which may be encouraged by a subsidy, may be detrimental to the establishment of an appropriate balance between manufactured and symbiotically produced nitrogen, both in research and in farm management. 
That is a most interesting comment in the report because, I believe, that that principle can be applied in an area much wider than just that in regard to nitrogen. What it actually means is that subsidising the cost of manufactured nitrogen results in a decrease in the profitability of producing alternatives. If we go to the extreme by making it very cheap, for instance, for a person to use manufactured nitrogen, primary producers will not be so keen to produce those alternative nitrogen fixing plants such as clovers and legumes generally. That principle can be applied to the whole area of government involvement. Governments are inclined to create distortions in the marketplace and make it less profitable for some areas and more profitable for others. Page 3 of the Industries Assistance Commission report also states: 
The Commission believes that there would be few adverse effects from the withdrawal of the present subsidy. To the extent that it would reduce direct financial assistance to some producers engaged in low cost activities, the Commission considers that the reduction would be outweighed by the more positive and direct encouragement which could flow from its suggestions concerning crop insurance, grain pool discount facilities and the desirability of an inquiry into the dissemination and application of the results of rural research. 
I am proud to say that the Government has done something with regard to grain pool discount facilities. To my knowledge not a great deal has been done with regard to crop insurance, nor to the area of dissemination and application of results of rural research. I urge the Government to look in particular at those two recommendations of the IAC report presented as far back as 3 December 1976. The Australian Labor Party, when it was in government, eliminated the superphosphate bounty, and I am confident that it would have followed the IAC recommendations with regard to nitrogen as well. It is completely hypocritical of the Labor Party to claim otherwise. 
With reluctance I support this present measure because it has to be looked at in the whole context of the Budget. The Budget will do a great deal to reduce the costs of primary producers, in particular by reducing the rate of inflation. I think that that is of vital importance and it is a point that was entirely neglected by the previous Labor Government. One of the positive effects of a reduction in the rate of inflation will be a reduction in interest rates. I am proud to say that there has been a continuation of- in some areas an increase in- the rural assistance given in the present Budget. 
It is well known that I have supported the reduction of tariffs and quotas. I do not want to repeat all the arguments I have put forward. I regret that this Budget contains some increases in tariffs on the items that are subject to quota, although I have heard opinions expressed that those increases in tariffs may not necessarily mean an increase in the price to the consumer, but that they will be absorbed by the importer. Irrespective of how we explain them away, these sorts of things create distortions in the marketplace and allocate resources away from exporting industries. It is rather surprising that this also involves manufacturing industries and particularly rural exporting industries. Those resources are pushed towards the highly supported industries. Those in the highly supported industries, generally speaking, can pass on their costs but those whose sole or main business is to export cannot pass on their costs because they have to meet the market forces overseas. 
I think that the worst sort of protection we can have in Australia is that provided through the quota system. This has been recognised finally by the Government in this current Budget. I certainly do not prefer the use of tariffs as a means of protecting industries in Australia. I prefer the payment of bounties as being the sort of assistance that should be given. The bounties system has many advantages. Unlike tariffs or quotas it does not create an increase in costs to the consumer. Even more importantly, it makes the level of protection given to a certain industry in Australia immediately obvious to people here and particularly to the government. The problem with tariffs is that it is almost impossible to identify the costs that they create. Without an organisation such as the IAC, which from time to time underlines the costs that are built in to certain industries by tariffs, we would be very poorly informed indeed. While talking about the IAC, I strongly support the work it is doing. I am pleased to say that in spite of all the fears and concerns expressed by many people in the community, and by the Opposition, the IAC is still completely independent. There is no suggestion whatever that the Government is playing the heavy hand on the activities of the IAC. 
I return to the sugar industry that was talked about at great length by the Opposition. I do not want my colleagues from Queensland to take me too seriously, but it is well known that some of the main sugar producing areas of Queensland are confronted with fairly severe shortages of water for irrigation, so much so that towns such as Townsville, which has a population of some 100,000 people, and many of the large country centres on the east coast of Queensland are facing serious water shortages. In Western Australia we have a fine body of water in the Ord River system that is sitting there waiting, not being used much at the moment. Some of the latest production figures from the research stations of the Western Australia Department of Agriculture and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in the Ord River area show that contrary to claims made by  Senator Walsh  some time ago, there has been a considerable increase in production. In fact the figures are somewhat higher than those that can be produced in Queensland, not only in mean production but also in sugar content. 
Without being too parochial, I would strongly support the carrying out of a close investigation into the setting up of a sugar industry in Western Australia. I appreciate the tremendous cost of doing so- the cost of the infrastructure, the railways and the factories that would be needed to convert cane into sugar. But it is interesting that many Queensland sugar industry leaders have travelled to the Ord River system and expressed interest in the area. If the first move can be made to establish an industry there I know that it would have the support of many of the producers in Queensland who are now facing difficulties with their irrigation water. I strongly support the Bill and reject the Opposition's foreshadowed amendment as being completely and purely hypocritical. 
The so-called matter of public importance that we are debating today is concerned with the export of merino rams. I would like to quote what  Senator Walsh  said in a speech he made to the Senate on 1 June 1978, when he led for the Opposition in a debate. He said: 
The issue, in my judgment, is of monumental unimportance. 
I could not agree more. This issue is of monumental unimportance. I think it is almost criminal that the time of the Senate should be wasted- honourable senators will note that it is on a day when our proceedings are being broadcast- on a matter of such unimportance. But I will respond to some points  Senator Walsh  made because they were extremely inaccurate. First of all he claimed that random breeding of sheep will not alter wool weight or body weight in sheep. He quoted the results of trials at Trangie and at other research stations. I remind  Senator Walsh  that the sheep that were subjected to those trials were kept in a controlled environment where husbandry was of a very high order. He did qualify his statement at a later date when I challenged him. But the facts are that in any given environment merino sheep will change genetically quite substantially, particularly if that environment is a harsh one. 
-I thank  Senator Young  for his interjection. Yes, I was born and raised in South Australia and I have been a stud breeder all my life. My grandfather started his merino stud in 1 9 1 9. We are not stud breeding any more,  Mr President,  but I have a lifetime history in stud breeding.  Senator Walsh  mentioned further that the relationship of wool to supply and demand is as applies in normal economics. He said this time and time again. All I would suggest is that everybody must be out of step except  Senator Walsh.  I take the three matters that were raised in the matter of public importance. Firstly,  Senator 
Walsh claimed that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  misrepresented the 1973 referendum results. We have already heard that  Senator Walsh  was more guilty- if there was any guilt at all- of misrepresenting those results. He claimed that 73 per cent of the people who voted voted against the proposition whereas he has finally agreed that perhaps only some 58 per cent of the people who voted might have voted against the proposition. 
The second point raised by  Senator Walsh  in this matter which is before us today related to what he referred to as: 
The internal contradiction which permits ram exports but bans exports of ewes and semen. 
There is a perfectly legitimate and sensible reason for this being so. First of all, with respect to ewes, the desire is to export merino rams, not to set up stud competition within studs overseas. If we were able to export our ewes countries such as South Africa, South America and other countries could quite conceivably establish pure Australian blood studs that could create competition for those studs in Australia which wish to export. With respect to semen, I think even the Australian Labor Party would agree that the policy of requiring that each ram which is to be exported must be sold by auction is a sensible one. What possible control can there be over the export of semen? One cannot auction semen. That is the point. I think everybody in the industry agrees that if merino rams are to be exported they should be exported subject to auction to give everybody in Australia the opportunity of paying a price equal to that paid by people from overseas. That is a policy which I support and which I think the Labor Party would support. I would like to find out from  Senator Walsh  how he is going to control the sale of semen or ova by auction. The third point made in the debate on this matter of public importance relates to the assertion by the Minister for Primary Industry that Genetically the Australian merino is still vastly ahead of merinos anywhere else in the world '. 
I do believe it. I believe it, just as  Senator Walsh  believes that the Labor Party is the best political party in Australia. It is sales talk, it is good sales talk, and I hope that every ambassador from Australia would say the same thing to potential overseas purchasers of merino rams. 
I agree with  Senator Walsh.  Nobody can claim that Australia's genetic material is superior to any other genetic material. But it is good sales talk to say so, and I support the Minister in that regard. It has been argued that if we believe- as I do- that we should export merino rams we should not restrict the number to 300. I think that there is a perfectly legitimate reason for so doing. First of all, it will minimise the present disruption of the market for merino rams in Australia. However, I believe that the number should be lifted gradually. It has been pointed out by my colleague  Senator Young,  by way of interjection, that it is possible in Australia to breed polwarths that look exactly like merino sheep. They are being exported now. 
As I said in response to an interjection by  Senator Young,  I have been a stud merino sheep breeder all my life. For many years I have been supporting the argument in favour of the export of merinos. I have not done that under any parochial or personal belief. I believe that I have heard all the arguments and I have come down very strongly on the side of exporting merinos. I must confess that I am in pretty good company. The Australian Wool Industry Conference, the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Stud Merino Producers Association all support that stand. A possible exception is the Western Australian Farmers Union, which has some misgivings on the issue.  Senator Walsh  made great play in his contribution to this debate about what he saw as a relationship between supply and demand. But the sad fact is that wool represents only 4.5 per cent of the world apparel fibre. There is no doubt in my mind that if- it is a big if- the export of merino rams can improve the quality and quantity of overseas wool production, it will be of great assistance to the Australian wool industry and not a detraction. 
The main point I wish to make today relates to freedom of choice. I think that it is quite wrong for us as a government to deny one section of primary industry access to an overseas market and not deny other sections that access. The ban of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the export of merinos is based on completely false information. As  Senator Walsh  has finally agreed, the referendum that was held was not as one-sided as he suggested. I point out to him that a reserve price plan for wool, which I and my Party strongly supported, was agreed to against the results of the two referendums that were held on the question some years previously. What right has a union to dictate export policy? If, as the ACTU claims, another referendum on this question should be held I ask the ACTU whether it held a referendum among its members before arriving at its decision to impose the ban. 
The history of union dislocation of primary industry is very well known by most primary producers but I will give some examples to reinforce the point. I shall cite four or five examples of the tremendous disruption caused to our primary industries in Australia in the year ended June 1977, the latest period for which I have figures. Firstly, there was a stoppage- a 10-month stoppage- in the wool stores. That probably cost the wool growing industry $4m. Over those 10 months the stoppage held up about 827,000 bales of wool worth some $174m. The Australian Workers Union held a series of rolling strikes in two of Australia's major wheat terminals. That action led to the direct cancellation of several wheat sales. The Waterside Workers Federation and the Seamen's Union still have a ban on the sale of goods to Chile, and until recently they had a ban on the sale of wheat to Indonesia. That caused a direct loss of sales of about 150,000 tonnes of goods to those countries. The two stoppages in Sydney and Newcastle that I have mentioned held up export sales involving something like 600,000 tonnes of goods in Sydney and 230,000 tonnes of goods in Newcastle. More recently, the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union has been directly responsible for the closing of two meat plants and is threatening the closure of several more. The direct result of that union action was to put 650 unionists out of work and cause the loss of about 100,000 man days. I could give many more examples but time is against me. 
One of the reasons I believe that the export of merino rams should be continued is that merino breeders in Australia are in a fair bit of trouble. In the last three years to the end of 1977 some 275 merino studs in Australia went out of business. I am sure that most of those studs would be continuing now had they been more profitable. I do not say that all of them would have survived if they had had access to ram exports but it would have meant a fair lift to their business.  Senator Walsh  has an enormous chip on his shoulder when it comes to stud sheep breeders. I draw his attention to the first occasion on which he and I met. It was in Geraldton in 1966 when he appeared on the same platform as me at a science and sheep breeding conference. The two main speakers at that conference were Miss Helen Newton-Turner and  Dr Bob  Dun. This was pretty well the start of a revolution in Western Australia in stud breeding methods. Judging from the remarks that  Senator Walsh  made at that conference, he certainly had that chip on his shoulder with regard to stud breeders. Is it any wonder that he should adopt the attitude that he has today and use the words that he has with regard to those people? He made a quite vitriolic attack in 1966, and he is continuing that vitriolic attack now. He criticised in those days and is still criticising the stud merino breeding industry for being old-fashioned, costly and behind the times. I point out to him now, as I pointed out to him on that day in 1966, that if the clients of stud breeders demanded any different sorts of rams or any different methods of preparation the stud breeders would certainly meet those demands. It is a completely supply and demand situation. 
I certainly agree with  Senator Walsh's  interjection. Since that time there has been quite a lift in the attitude of many stud sheep breeders. That would have happened sooner if the flock breeders had demanded a different state of affairs. My conscience is not troubled at all in my strongly supporting the export of merino rams. I consider that the debate on this matter of public importance has been a complete waste of time. The Senate has much more important business to debate. I place the blame completely on  Senator Walsh  and the Labor Party for wasting our time today. 
As a member of the Government, I thank the Opposition for supporting these Bills. I did not expect its attitude to be otherwise. I would also congratulate  Senator Walsh  on a most enlightening address. The honourable senator expressed to the Senate many interesting points of view that I support, but I was quite surprised by some of the points that were expressed by the honourable senator, who is in fact the Opposition spokesman on rural matters. 
The Senate is debating cognately the Wheat Tax Amendment Bill and the Wheat Research Amendment Bill. The purpose of this legislation, as  Senator Walsh  mentioned, is to increase the maximum rate of tax to be paid by wheat growers from 1 5c per tonne to 30c per tonne. The purpose of obtaining this money is to finance research into wheat and relevant matters. The introduction of this legislation follows a request from the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. The Industries Assistance Commission recommended in 1 976 that government support for research in the wheat industry be on a dollar for dollar basis and this government decision follows that recommendation. 
I must make it clear that the Bills are not designed to increase the level of tax to be imposed on wheat growers but to make provision for that tax if it is considered necessary. As  Senator Walsh  said, the 15c per tonne that is extracted now from the wheat producers possibly will increase to about 20c per tonne fairly soon. This is another example of a very great rural industry in Australia assisting itself. The people responsible are to be congratulated for the attitude they have taken. It is so prevalent these days, and it is becoming increasingly prevalent, for industries to rush to government for assistance. It is terribly encouraging to see that this measure has the full support of the Wheatgrowers Federation. The amount of money that has been deposited by the industry and government since the two principal Acts were introduced in 1957 is worth noting: Wheat growers have contributed $ 16,2 16,000 to the scheme in the 20 years it has operated. The Commonwealth has contributed $14,837,000. The interest derived from the investment of that money has amounted to over $ 1 m. When the old Wheat Acquisition Act 1958 was amended, the residue from the fund amounted to $569,000. The total funding under these two Acts was $32,851,000. That is a considerable amount of money. The wheat industry is an important industry. As  Senator Walsh  said, the fund provides the money for research into very important matters associated with wheat production- to increase the yields, to increase the quality of wheat, to increase the number of varieties available for different areas to make sure that they are relevant to the type of environment in which wheat is being grown, work on disease control and also work on weed control. 
I want to spend a short time discussing what I regard as a terribly significant report. I refer to the report on wheat stabilisation by the Industries Assistance Commission which was released in June 1978. I wish to read out the recommendations- they are not all that longwhich are contained on page 67 of the report. Under the heading of 'Stabilization' it is stated: 
The Industries Assistance Commission recommends that for seasons after the 1978-79 season Commonwealth Government assistance be provided to wheatgrowers for a limited period when market realizations fall to levels which are low in relation to the recent past. 
The Commission recommends that: such assistance be triggered in those years when the Australian Wheat Board pool return falls below 70 per cent of the average of the two lowest returns (expressed in current value terms) in the preceding five years; the Commonwealth Government commitment be the difference between the estimated average pool return and 70 per cent of the average of the two lowest pool returns (expressed in current value terms) in the preceding five years; and such assistance be paid on deliveries of wheat irrespective of grade to the Australian Wheat Board and other licensed traders, and be paid early in the relevant season. 
The assistance outlined above is not designed to cope with all general problems or all individual stress. Supplementary assistance may be shown to be warranted, after scrutiny of the particular circumstances of stress prevailing at the time. 
The Commission recommends that: the traditional form of stabilization of wheat returns as embodied in the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1974 be discontinued; outstanding monies in the Wheat Prices Stabilization Fund be returned to contributing wheatgrowers; and no further contribution from wheatgrowers be required for the duration of the current wheat stabilization plan, nor for arrangements applying after the 1 978-79 season. 
Under the heading of 'marketing' it is stated: 
The Commission recommends that: control over export wheat, flour and sharps be specifically vested in the Australian Wheat Board; private traders be permitted to purchase and sell wheat on domestic markets; domestic prices be not administratively determined; restraints currently imposed on the Australian Wheat Board in respect of grading, pricing and segregation of wheat and of transferring monies between pools be removed; the Australian Wheat Board be free to borrow on the best terms available from commercial and/or government sources in Australia and overseas; a wheatgrowers' outstanding share in any Australian Wheat Board pool be an asset which can be traded or used as security; where practicable handling, storage and transport charges be not pooled and equalized among wheatgrowers; and if it is Government policy to offset the cost of wheat delivered to Tasmanian consumers, the cost be met by the Commonwealth Government. 
The balance of the recommendations were devoted to pests and diseases. I said that I regard these recommendations as among the most farreaching recommendations that have ever been submitted in respect of the wheat industry in Australia. In my opinion, it is a pity that the issues involved in those recommendations have not been widely canvassed in the industry. Very few people have asked for copies of this Industries Assistance Commission report. There was initial resistance to the report by wheat growers but that resistance was based entirely on a lack of knowledge. I am certain in my mind that if the wheat growers of Australia better understood the issues as discussed by the IAC they would be far more amenable to the suggestions made in the report. The first recommendation under the heading 'stabilisation' probably is not quite as controversial as the second one. All it really recommends is the establishment of a pot holding system. If the price of wheat falls below a certain calculable level, the Government will step in and assist the industry up to that level. The recommendation envisages the scrapping of the stabilisation plan as we know it. I do not have the latest figure available but it is my understanding that since the War the succession of stabilisation plans has cost the wheat growers of Australia some $500m. The scheme certainly has not benefited wheat growers in the long term, although it has had some sort of stabilising effect on the price of wheat from year to year. However, to offset that, the system under which the Australian Wheat Board pays advances to wheat growers over extended periods has the effect also of stabilising wheat prices. 
The second recommondation of the report certainly is controversial. It recommends that the 
Australian Wheat Board be given sole power to trade overseas but that the Board be not permitted to be the sole trader within Australia. I am sure that you,  Mr President,  as a flour miller of some note in South Australia, have a great interest in this matter. I strongly support this recommendation but I feel that I am a little on my own in this regard, certainly in the Senate. I support it because I am a very great believer in the system of private enterprise. It is my belief that if the Australian Wheat Board is efficient, as most people believe it is, it will get all of the business. It will get the support from growers. But if it is not efficient, and it is extremely difficult for anybody even closely associated with the industry to judge whether it is efficient, it is better perhaps that other people do the work that the Board is doing. I think that efficiency and competition should be the criteria by which these sorts of matters are judged. I am afraid that on many occasions when government gets involved in these sorts of matters, it does not necessarily do the job very well. 
There is some significant resistance to the report from flour millers in Australia. I think that quite a bit of that resistance is motivated purely by selfish interests. Perhaps over the years the millers have received a fairly good deal from the wheat producers because they have been able to buy wheat at a cheaper price than if they had to purchase wheat at the world market price. Some arguments have been advanced by the flour millers of Australia in favour of a stabilised price or a consistent price. I say that the price of wheat represents only a small proportion of the ultimate price of bread and that if the millers use the fluctuating price of bread as an excuse against the introduction of the scheme, I would not agree with that point of view at all. The advantages of having traders of wheat competing with the Australian Wheat Board are many and varied. This proposed plan will allow free trade between wheat farmers, which under the present arrangements is very difficult to achieve. It takes many days and in some cases weeks for a permit to be obtained from the Wheat Board in each State to allow a farmer-to-farmer trading. The plan would certainly reduce the cost to the purchaser of wheat that is traded from farm to farm, from farm to mill, from farm to feed lot or wherever the wheat is ultimately used. The wheat that does not have to go through the grain handling systems in each State would not attract that quite large cost to the ultimate user and in that regard the plan would increase the efficiency of wheat production and allow the ultimate consumer to pay higher prices directly to the producer. 
The plan would also overcome one of the anomalies that presently faces the wheat industry and wheat industry organisations. I refer to the across-the-border trading which occurred some years ago in enormous proportions when we had wheat quotas. Under section 92 of the Constitution, which permits free trade between States, there was an anomaly whereby the people who controlled wheat quotas were powerless to prevent the movement of wheat across borders. A large percentage of the wheat produced in Victoria, South Australia and southern New South Wales was traded in that way and the people who paid for it were the wheat growers in Western Australia, who have the Nullabor Plain between them and the nearest State border, and farmers who themselves were isolated from State borders. Whilst I do not think that the IAC recommendations should be supported solely on that ground, they would certainly remove one of the anomalies faced by the wheat organisations in Australia. The proposed recommendations would also allow bonuses to be paid for quality. Mills which require a certain variety of wheat for a separate purpose would be encouraged to pay a bonus or a premium to local farmers in their own areas who produce that sort of wheat. Under the present arrangements there is very little incentive for farmers, certainly in Western Australia, as  Senator Walsh  pointed out, to produce higher quality wheat or wheat of a different variety. 
As I said before, I sincerely regret that this issue has not met with more debate amongst wheat growers in Australia, and I am afraid that many decisions made by the industry organisations will be reached without sufficient knowledge of the subject. It is my earnest hope that the rural newspapers in particular will take up this issue and debate it widely. Some rural newspapers have done so but most of them have not. I cannot understand the reason for that because it is a vital issue. I feel sure that if the points made in the IAC report were understood better they would have a fair wider acceptance. As usual, the Government will take great heed of what the industry asks of it in this regard, and for that reason I hope that the industry is well informed before it decides its policy in regard to the IAC recommendations. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. There has been much criticism of the high cost of Australian internal air fares generally and in particular of the disproportionately high cost of fares between Perth and other capital cities. It seems that fares are set by adopting a flagfall of $13 plus 6.093 cents per kilometre. As $13 seems to be a totally inadequate amount to cover the cost of servicing each passenger at each end of his journey, will the Minister recommend to the Minister he represents that the flagfall amount be increased substantially and the cost per kilometre reduced correspondingly so that the total cost of a long trip more truly reflects the actual costs? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. It relates to the difficulties being experienced in the negotiations between Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd and the Northern Land Council which are causing further delays to Ranger Uranium Mines, Pancontinental Mining Ltd and Queensland Mines Ltd. As the delays will make it difficult for Australia to meet its existing contracts for the supply of uranium to overseas countries, will the Minister consider giving early approval for the export of uranium from Yeelirrie and other Western Australian deposits? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It relates to the recent action by the Minister whom she represents to reduce to a month the maximum time allowed an intending resident of Australia to live in Australia as a single person under the provision of fiance visas. I recognise that the main reason for the Minister's action is to reduce abuses of the system, but will the Minister attempt to modify the present catch-22 situation which is creating unnecessary difficulties for genuine applicants? The problem to which I refer is that in many cases the date of the intended wedding can take many weeks to arrange, which date is required before the visa is applied for, but that it is usually impossible to forecast within a month the time it will take to process the application. 
Social security is not an area in which I usually take a great deal of active interest, but because of the absolute hypocrisy of Opposition speakers thus far I have been persuaded and have persuaded myself to take an interest in this debate. I will devote myself to a couple of matters mentioned by Opposition senators.  Senator Grimes,  who led for the Opposition, made a rather interesting comment during his speech. He mentioned that in his opinion income tests should be applied to wide areas. I ask him which areas he suggests, because this is a fairly major departure from normal socialist policy. 

 Senator Grimes seems concerned about unemployment, as every right thinking person in Australia would be; but he seems less concerned about the causes of unemployment. I draw his attention to a publication called the  National Times  dated 9 September 1978, in which an adviser to the former Labor Government,  Mr Paddy  McGuinness, has written a quite large article. In the introductory paragraph of that article he states: 
The necessary condition for any reduction in unemployment without acceleration of inflation is a reduction in wages. 
I am not sure whether  Senator Grimes  has ever publicly advocated a reduction in wages, but if he has any sincerity at all he will accept the advice of the advisers to the Labor Party and speak out for that move which would reduce significantly the rate of unemployment. I feel that  Senator Colston's  address to the Senate was completely hypocritical. He spent a great deal of time during his address talking about promises. I remind him that his former great and glorious leader,  Mr Whitlam,  said in his policy speech in 1972 that the Labor Party would abolish the means test within three years. That policy is not even mentioned in the Labor Party platform now.  Mr Whitlam  also promised that during the same period the Labor Party would lift pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Under Labor that promise was a long way from realisation. I remind honourable senators opposite that at this moment pensions, as a percentage of average weekly earnings, are the highest they have ever been since the Labor Party took office in 1972. I also direct their attention to the Hayden alternative Budget which honourable senators opposite obviously have not read because they certainly say one thing and mean another. 
I wish to make some general comments in regard to the Bill before the Senate. Certainly many sections of the whole area of social services payments have been increased generously. What I think is vitally important is that they have been increased for those most in need. The Labor Party found, and certainly the electors agreed, that indiscriminate spending is not the right sort of policy for Australia. In fact, it created inflation and increased interest rates, and the people most affected by those policies were the people on fixed incomes. It is an inescapable fact that those who advocate solving our present employment problems by massive government capital expenditure would have to itemise the areas where they would reduce government expenditure. There is no doubt that, if we embarked on a program of increasing government expenditure without affecting the drive against inflation and without affecting the high deficit figure that we suffer at the moment, that expenditure would have to be at the expense of other government expenditure. I put it to the Opposition to identify the areas in which they see the Government reducing expenditure to embark on what they advocate as a massive increase in capital expenditure. 
I support very strongly the moves the Government has made with regard to social security. In fact, I would support an even stronger move in the direction it has taken. We have a limited amount of money to spend in the area of social security and I believe that we should concentrate on the areas of most need. Those who it can be proved do not need assistance should receive less. The Bill includes an increase of 7 per cent in expenditure on the whole area of social service matters over the 1976-77 figure. In quantitative terms this means an increase from $5.1 billion to an estimated $8 billion in the current year. If the unemployment benefit is extracted from those figures, the residual amount increases by 8 per cent over the figure for the last financial year. In quantitative terms this is an increase from $4.6 billion to an estimated $7.2 billion. 
Probably the most controversial decision of the Government with regard to the Bill we are presently debating is the decision to index pensions and benefits once a year. I remind the Opposition that, with the current low and rapidly decreasing rate of inflation, pensioners are far better off than they were under the high rates of inflation with indexation twice a year. There is to be no automatic adjustment to unemployment benefits payable to those without dependants, and certainly I think that many of those people can afford that. That also includes single recipients of unemployed and sickness benefits under 1 8 years of age. That point has been mentioned already by the Opposition. This decision is to be reviewed every year in the Budget context. We are reminded, of course, that under the Labor Government all of these pensions and benefits were at the whim of the Government every year. 
The changes that we have made are dramatic and radical changes to the benefit of the people who depend on us. This November there is to be an increase in age, invalid and widows ' pensions and supporting parent and unemployment and sickness benefits based on the consumer price index. From now on that will be done each November. In quantitative terms it means an increase from $51.45 to $53.20 a week. In the case of the combined married rate of pension it means an increase from $85.80 to $88.70 a week. That is an increase of 3.4 per cent for the first half of the 1978 calendar year, which reflects exactly the increase in the consumer price index. As has been mentioned already by the Opposition, the increase in pensions received by those over 70 years of age will be subject to an income test. That is a policy that I can support. There are many people who have no need of the pension and who are well off. The Government's decision means that the limited amount of money we have to spend in this area can be given more properly to the people who deserve it. It will mean an additional expenditure of $95.3m for the remainder of the 1978-79 year and an additional expenditure of $ 145.7m for a full year. 
Another aspect of the Bill is that pensions to the blind will be paid free of income test. Those pensioners over 70 years of age with an income up to $20 a week will receive the full additional amount free of income test and those with an income up to $23.50 a week will receive a partial increase. That figure applies with regard to couples. It means that $34.50 is the minimum amount they can receive before the phased in amount is applied. The handicapped child's allowance is at the rate of $ 1 5 a week. Under some conditions it is also payable to persons who have custody, care and control of handicapped children. This will be extended to full-time students between the ages of 16 and 25 years who are handicapped. We have continued what was a remarkable new policy with regard to the new family allowance introduced in 1976 and it will be paid monthly- a small change in the previous situation from when it was formerly paid every four weeks- but this will not make any difference at all to the amount of money received in a full calendar year. The Minister has announced the new rates that will apply from 1 November. The family allowance will not be paid in future to students who are recipients under the student tertiary education scheme but the TEAS allowance will be increased to take care of that disability and will be increased to compensate completely for the loss of that benefit. 
There were some interesting aspects in events in the days leading up to the presentation of this Bill to the Senate. I think the most controversialcertainly the most widely publicised- was the socalled newsboy tax. The response from the Government was first class when the mistakes or potential mistakes were pointed out to the Government. It certainly indicated a very direct responsiveness- a responsive attitude by the Government. However, that does not excuse the mistake of the Government which created for it a great deal of problems. The fact that it changed the proposals for this tax very quickly meant to many people in the community that for the first time the Budget had become a negotiable Budget. I would strongly recommend that the Government keep this situation in mind next year. 
I know the situation is different in Japan. I was fortunate enough to go with a parliamentary delegation to Japan earlier this year. The way that that country's Budget is presented to the Japanese is quite interesting and may have some application to our Government in Australia. I would recommend that the Government look at the Japanese scheme to see whether any of it could be applied to our situation. In Japan, many weeks before the Budget is due to be brought down in their Parliament, the broad guidelines are announced widely and when that announcement is made the options which are open to the country are widely publicised. For the following several weeks, encouraged by the Government, there is a general public debate on the whole area of the Budget. It allows fairly firm opinions to be identified within the public sector. The final wash-up of the Budget is formulated from those ideas emanating from that public debate. It means that the public has a better understanding of the issues that face the Government. When the original announcement is made by the Government the public has access to the latest figures, knowledge of the priorities of the Government, the options available to the Government, and the Japanese public is enabled to participate completely in the debates leading up to the final preparation of the Budget. It leads to a greater understanding of the problems faced by government in drawing up budgets. I would certainly recommend that our Government here has a very close look at that system. In closing, I have no hesitation in supporting this Bill and strongly advocate that it be supported. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to an article in the  New Statesman  of 14 July which mentions the economic model of the British economy used by the British Treasury. I ask: If such a model exists in this country, are the details of its construction available to those interested in offering alternative policy advice from outside government? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The use offish traps by fishermen who normally operate in other areas of the coastline is causing great concern to fishermen and the local authority at Carnarvon in Western Australia. These traps can cause considerable damage to marine growth. The fish they catch are often badly bruised and if the rope to which the traps are attached breaks they continue to catch fish for many years. The Western Australian Government controls the use of traps within waters under its control. Will the Minister consider placing similar controls over waters under the control of the Commonwealth? 
-! bring up the report of Estimates Committee F on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My attention was drawn to an article that appeared yesterday or today in the Melbourne  Age  headed: 'ALP men claim Whitlam failure'. I have not the time to read the whole of the article but I will read extracts from it. It states: 
The Whitlam Government at times gratuitously disregarded the sensibilities or rural Australians, according to a Labor Party committee. 
The criticism is contained in a discussion paper on 'issues in non-metropolitan Australia' issued by the party's committee or inquiry, consisting of MPs, academics and trade unionists. 
At the time there was a somewhat simplistic feeling within the ALP that the country had been unfairly  cossetted  and that it was time to redress the balance ', the paper said. 
The paper urged the party to sympathetically consider equalising costs of communication, transport, health, housing, welfare and education between cities and country areas. 
The paper referred to in the article was launched by  Senator Button,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. I wonder why it was not issued by  Senator Walsh  who is the Opposition spokesman on primary industry. When introducing the paper  Senator Button  said: 
. the party's efforts would not be directed to farming communities 'with a great degree of optimism '- 
How much I agree with that last statement. We are debating a matter of public importance proposed by  Senator Walsh  which reads as follows: 
The Prime Minister's failure to honour his 1977 election promise to provide, through the Primary Industry Bank, long term credit at concessional rates of interest. 
Let me go back a little in time and refer to the primary industry policy statement of the Liberal and National Country parties in 1975. It stated: 
. we intend to establish a National Rural Bank in conjunction with trading banks and other lenders in the rural sector to provide rural credit to cover the investment in land. 
The bank will also finance machinery, plant, stock and farm equipment, lend for farm development projects for the expansion of existing projects and refinance existing short term rural debts. The" terms of lending would be appropriate for the purpose of the loan. Interest payable would be at bank interest rates for medium term loans and marginally better for long term loans. 
It is envisaged that the bank would function by relending through existing financial institutions but may be involved in direct lending in some instances. 
As a refinance institution, staff would be kept to a minimum and security and other documentation held and processed by the on-lending financial body. 
Let me now move to more recent times and refer to an extract from the supplementary statement that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made to this policy speech of 21 November 1977. Under the heading of 'Rural Bank' the statement reads: 
The new Australian Rural Bank for which legislation was passed in the last Parliament will be established without delay; the principal function will be to re-finance loans made by banks (including the Commonwealth Development Bank), other financial institutions and other lenders to rural producers and fishermen; it will provide, in conjunction with the banks and other lenders, long term credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest. The board of the Bank will include two rural representatives. 
The only conflict between those two statements is that the more recent policy statement is far more generous on interest rates. 
The matter of public importance says that the action of the Government in establishing a rural bank conflicts in some way with the Prime Minister's policy speech. I contend, as strongly as possible, that that is not so. Let us analyse the policy speech and look at the facts. Has there been a delay? It is less than 12 months since that policy speech was delivered. I think that any responsible government would give a great deal of consideration to such an important new policy as the establishment of a rural bank. As a member of the Government parties' rural committee I was closely involved in the establishment of this bank, as also was the Government parties' Treasury committee. We had lengthy consultations with rural industry groups and with representatives from the banking organisations, including the Commonwealth Development Bank and overseas rural banking bodies. However, the delay is not the subject of the matter under discussion. 
The second point was that the Bank would refinance loans. It is certain that this will be done. 
The third point was that there would be long term credit for viable borrowers. The policy is that the new Bank will loan for up to 30 years the money that will be available. Of course, the terms will depend on the reason for the loan. I think that this is only reasonable.  Senator Walsh  seemed to make great play about the fact that not all loans will be for the maximum period. How can any reasonable person expect money to be lent for 30 years if a farmer is to use it to purchase a header that will normally last for six or eight years? A farmer makes certain purchases, such as a shearing shed or land, that will last much longer than 30 years and it is expected that loans for the maximum period will be used for these sorts of purchases. Are the concessional interest rates concerning the Opposition? There is no doubt that a 10 per cent interest rate is a substantial concession. As  Senator Carrick  very correctly pointed out, no member of the Opposition has yet pointed to any source from which cheaper funds are available. Certainly a 10 per cent interest rate for amounts below $100,000 and a 12 per cent interest rate for amounts above $100,000 are substantial concessions. A further promise was that we would have two rural representatives. That has certainly come true. 
Where is the substance of this matter of public importance? I firmly believe that the main reason for bringing on this matter for discussion is that the Opposition generally is worried that this new Bank will work. Let me look a little further into this subject. I think that I have demonstrated, as  Senator Carrick  and other speakers on the Government side have demonstrated, that the new Bank will do everything that was promised in the Prime Minister's policy speech. In the hearings of Estimates Committee A on 26 October,  Senator McLaren  asked why the Commonwealth Development Bank was not used as the foundation for the new Primary Industry Bank. On the surface that is a quite reasonable question. But I recommend that honourable senators read the reply that was given to that question by  Mr Hartwell.  I quote from page 1065 of the  Hansard  record of the Senate Estimates committee's hearings on 26 October.  Mr Hartwell  said: 
The Commonwealth Development Bank is a special bank to the extent that it is a lender of last resort, so to speak. It provides finance only where appropriate finance is not otherwise available on suitable terms and conditions. Therefore the Primary Industry Bank facility, one might suggest, does widen the scope of loans and financing facilities available to primary producers. 
I think that is a perfectly good and reasonable reason that the Commonwealth Development Bank could not be used for the purpose of establishing this Bank. Although it has not yet said so, it is certainly implicit in what it says that another reason that the Labor Party suggests such a move is that it has always believed in very rigid government controls over finance. One way that this could be achieved would be for the Government's own bank to have such a large measure of control over rural finance. One of the criticisms of this new Bank which has been made in the rural Press, which strangely enough has not been raised by the Opposition and to which I subscribe is that the new Bank will not provide staff who are specialised in the area of rural banking. In many of our lending institutions there is certainly a shortage of people with specialised knowledge of the rural industries. For this reason, 1 wholeheartedly applaud the actions of the Commonwealth Development Bank in training and providing many specialists in this area who have made a great contribution to the rural industries and to the banking facility. 
One of the advantages, which has not yet been mentioned, of the new structure over the proposed structure of using the Commonwealth Development Bank is that the Commonwealth Development Bank is a lender of last resort but the potential clients of the new Bank will have the facility to go from bank to bank, from bank to stock company or from stock company to insurance company until they receive a favourable reaction to their application. If a potential client is refused support by the Commonwealth Development Bank he has very few other places to go. I guess that the Labor Party is concerned about interest rates. Contrary to what  Senator Gietzelt  claimed,  Senator Carrick  spent a great deal of his speech in talking about the interest rates and demonstrated very clearly that the interest rate of 10 per cent on amounts below $100,000 is a considerable concession compared with what is available on the open market.  Senator Walsh  alluded in his speech to the fact, to which I subscribe, that those people who support a greater interest rate concession are doing the industry a great deal of harm. I like to think that I am an economic purist and I believe that if any greater interest rate concessions were made, unnecessary distortions would be created. 
In the short time available to me I would like to allude to some of the other points made by Opposition speakers.  Senator Walsh  made quite a short speech. I agree in principle that speeches should be short, but I suggest that on this occasion the reason that it was short was that he had very little to say, strangely enough, about the matter for discussion that he proposed. He talked about the 1.5 per cent so-called profit that the trading banks will be receiving from the new Primary Industry Bank. I must be remembered that this amount of 1.5 per cent is to cover the banks' cost of handling the loans and also their risk. I suggest that a return of 1.5 per cent is a very poor return to any businessman for any sort of effort.  Senator Walsh  seemed to make great play of the fact that loans can be obtained from the Commonwealth Development Bank at interest rates similar to the 10 per cent and 12 per cent rates. I remind him that that is a terribly significant thing. I point out to  Senator Walsh  and to the Opposition that the Commonwealth Development Bank loans are quite substantially subsidised. 

 Senator Gietzelt started his address by suggesting that  Senator Carrick  spoke for longer than he should have done. That is a rather strange thing to say. He spoke certainly well within the time allocated to him. Perhaps the reason that he spoke for five minutes longer than  Senator Walsh  spoke is that he had more to say.  Senator Gietzelt  certainly did not listen to what  Senator Carrick  had to say because, contrary to what  Senator Gietzelt  claimed,  Senator Carrick  spent a great deal of time talking about the interest rates.  Senator Gietzelt  claimed that to use the income equalisation deposit funds is somehow to cheat the farmers of something that is really theirs. I put to  Senator Gietzelt  this question: Why not use the IED funds? He also advocated the old-fashioned Labor philosophy of pumping huge amounts of taxpayers funds into this Bank. The farmers know now to their cost the sort of results that can be expected from this policy. I just ask this question: Will the Labor Party ever learn? In response to  Senator Gietzelt  's comments, I point out that it must also be understood that the funds that will be available from the IED trust fund at an interest rate of 5 per cent will only balance the other borrowings that are available on the market. 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee F and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-by leave- I table the additional information received by Estimates Committee F and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Many representations have been made to the Minister whom  Senator Chaney  represents concerning the curtailment of services provided by the rural department of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which performs a vital service to farmers and rural communities. I recognise that within certain guidelines the Commission is entirely responsible for setting its own program priorities. However, will the Minister use his best endeavours to see that the regional officers of the ABC's rural department continue to supply the services on which farmers and rural communities so heavily rely? 
-by leave- I table the additional information received by Estimates Committee F and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for 
Health and refers to the Isolated Patients Travel and Accommodation Assistance Scheme which was introduced by the Commonwealth Government on 1 October this year. I fully support this scheme and any other scheme that will assist isolated people. However, I would like further information on three aspects of this scheme. Firstly, will the Minister consider the placing of advertisements in all country newspapers in Australia to publicise the scheme so that country people will become aware of what is available to them to help equalise health care costs as compared with capital city residents? Secondly, will he consider giving details of what criteria will be used when travel by air will be authorised, bearing in mind the long distances and hot conditions that often prevail in the country areas of Australia? Thirdly, will he consider widening the scheme to cover where necessary specialist dental and optical treatment where that is not available in the locality of the person requiring such treatment? 
I listened with great interest to  Senator Young's  contribution on the matter of salinity in the River Murray. I draw to the Committee's attention the report of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources brought down in the Senate recently. The reference was: 
The Commonwealth's role in the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia's water resources. 
We devoted quite a large amount of our time to the matter of salinity generally and salinity in the River Murray in particular. I refer the Committee to page 49 of the report in which we stated: 
The Committee considers that the River Murray Commission is not an appropriate body to undertake concerted, long-term action to deal with the problems of salinity, water logging, despoilation of wetlands and saline drainage into the River Murray. The salinity problems associated with irrigation have their origin in the catchments or lands adjacent to the rivers over which the existing River Murray Commission has no control. 
I underline that point. The points raised by  Senator Young  are very valid, but it was the consideration of our Committee that because the problems of salinity emanate in tributaries of the River Murray, in some cases many hundreds of miles from the River Murray itself, that the Commission itself has no powers to deal with the problem. I read further from our report: 
The problems of the River Murray are of national significance and the Committee considers that there is an urgent and vital role for the Commonwealth in respect of the development and preservation of the River Murray Basin. The Commonwealth should take the initiative through the Australian Water Resources Council in preparing and implementing a long term comprehensive program for the management of River Murray salinity problems including regulation of land use as well as water management. 
Finally, I quote our recommendation: 
The Committee recommends that salinity be recognised as a national problem and receive a high priority and increased attention in future with the Commonwealth taking the initiative in implementing a long term solution outside the framework of the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Act 1978. 
As Chairman of Senate Estimates Committee F- this was the first occasion on which I have been Chairman of an Estimates 
Committee- I think it timely towards the end of this debate on the matters considered by the Committee that I make some general comments about the carrying out of the Committee 's duties. I stress that on this occasion the departmental figures for these appropriations came out very early. That made it much easier for members of the Estimates Committee to prepare questions and give prior notice to the various departments. This really assisted our inquiries. Generally speaking, it can be said that the members of my Committee believe that the figures and the explanations supplied to it were complete. In that regard I am grateful to the four departments, the estimates of which we were asked to consider. By way of general observation, if any department is concerned about the completeness of the figures that it supplies to a Committee the more detail that is supplied to a Committee the less questioning is required of that department. The more complete the details are the fewer questions result. 
I turn now to speak particularly of the cooperation we received from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It has been an ongoing battle on the part of the Estimates committees which have dealt with the Postal and Telecommunications Department to get complete figures from the ABC. I am very proud and pleased to report that the ABC co-operated completely and fully in the consideration of the Estimates this year. From the  Hansard  records I see that this battle has been going on since 1971. I know that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  was instrumental last year in drawing to the attention of the relevant Committee that the Senate Estimates Committees would very much like to have more detail supplied from the ABC. I am pleased to say that this year not only did the ABC supply complete details and explanations of its figures but also was it good enough to provide the following executives:  Mr G.  White, Assistant General Manager, Television,  Mr K.  Mackriell, Assistant General Manager, Radio,  Mr W.  Funnell Controller of Finance, and many other ABC top executives. I hope that this cooperation on the part of the ABC will continue. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on National Resources: 
The replacement of petroleum based fuels by alternative sources of energy with regard to (a) research into alternative fuels; (b) development and demonstration of practical alternatives; and (c) fiscal and other measures required to encourage their adoption. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Because of the views strongly expressed by, among others,  Sir James  Foots,  Chairman  of MIM Holdings Ltd, one of Australia's biggest mining groups, would the Government be prepared to review its recently announced minerals export guidelines? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. During recent public hearings of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources into quarantine matters it was revealed that the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet conducted an inquiry into quarantine matters last year. It was revealed also that some State and Commonwealth departments and organisations with a direct responsibility for quarantine in Australia were not consulted or invited to make submissions to that inquiry. Would the Minister inform me, firstly, who was invited to give evidence to that inquiry and, secondly, which departments, organisations and individuals gave evidence to the inquiry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. An inquiry into the future development of Perth Airport has been going on for some years. Because of current overcrowding at the airport and the projected rapid increase in traffic, can the Minister indicate when the inquiry will be concluded? Will the Minister indicate also how soon after the conclusion of the inquiry the Government will be in a position to announce its decision as to the future development of Perth Airport? 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question relating to what are believed by many Western Australians to be two areas of discrimination against Western Australians in regard to air fares. The internal air fares which are set advantage short flights and disadvantage long flights by an unrealistically low flagfall and a correspondingly high cost per kilometre charge. In regard to international flights, the Perth to Sydney portion of an international flight costs about four times the charge for the Sydney to Perth section of an international flight. Will the Government endeavour to correct those anomalies or do what the United States Government has done recently in removing government involvement from the industry altogether except in matters of safety? 
It gives me pleasure to second the motion. At the outset perhaps I had better declare my interest. Currently I am  chairman  of a Senate committee but it would be my expectation not to continue in that role if this motion is carried. Because honourable senators acknowledge that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has selected his most talented representatives from the Senate to occupy the front benches, they naturally would occupy the positions of chairmen of committees. I thought I had better declare my interest. I second the motion moved by  Senator Hamer,  which states: 
1 ) That, in the opinion of the Senate- 
Senators should no longer hold office as Ministers of State, with the exception of any  Senator holding  the office of Leader of the Government in the Senate, who, in order adequately to represent Government priorities to the Senate, should remain a member of the Cabinet; and 
Chairmen of the Senate's Legislative and General Purposes Standing Committees should be granted allowances, staffs and other entitlements similar to those currently granted to Ministers other than Ministers in the Cabinet. 
That copies of this Resolution be forwarded to- 
the  Chairman  ofthe Remuneration Tribunal; and 
the Prime Minister, with a request that he initiate action to give effect to the proposals, including any necessary amendments to Departmental Estimates. 
I intend to cover only the broad principles of this motion tonight because there are many other speakers who wish to participate in the debate. 
Over a number of years I have come to the conclusion so ably outlined by my colleague  Senator Hamer  and I think that he has made a very practical and workable suggestion. I will not discuss the details but many details have been worked out and I am certain that those that have not can be adequately resolved. In my opinion the present shortcoming of the Senate is that the Senate was designed as a States House. Prior to Federation there were six colonies and it is my contention that those colonies would not have joined into a Federation without the protection of the Senate. Yet we see the situation where the Senate has very seldom acted in its role as a States House. In fairness, it should be acknowledged that if the Senate were not here the legislation coming through from the Government would be vastly different. The Government, knowing that the Senate is here and has the power to act as a States House, must pay regard to that fact and also to the less populous States. 
I am afraid that it is undeniably a fact that the Senate is, and under the present system will continue to be, a political House. With the exception of  Senator Harradine,  all the present senators are endorsed by a political party and are elected to represent that political party. It is extremely difficult for them to depart from their party line. As  Senator Hamer  pointed out, a political bias is built in for Government senators to support the Government line. We have five Ministers here. We have another 30 Government senators who think that they should be Ministers. They are not likely to depart unduly from the strong Government line and upset the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and reduce their chances of becoming Ministers. Of course, we recognise that the Labor Party is tied to its Caucus decisions and in many cases to union decisions. Because of those two factors the Senate cannot operate as anything other than a political House. I am afraid that the Senate has become a mirror of the House of Representatives. 
I do not overlook the very valuable role ofthe Senate committees. They have had an important input into the policy determinations of the government, particularly during the years from 1972 to 1975. I recognise the role the Senate played in those times in the review of legislation, but I am afraid that after those exciting days the Senate has tended to return to its old sleepy and dead state. Some time ago many senators were pontificating on what they saw as their desire for the Senate to become a more independent House. They saw the solution to their problems in giving the Senate the ability to elect its 
Government Leader and  Deputy  Leader. Big deal! I am suggesting that if this motion is agreed to the Senate really would be given some power. A commonly used argument against the action we are proposing is that if it were carried out it would no longer be relevant for senators to represent parties. I guess that there is some validity in that argument. However, I do not agree with it. 
Exactly; that is very true. I maintain that the idea has no validity because the candidates would still be selected by their respective parties and their renomination would depend on their performance in representing the philosophies of their respective parties. The performance of senators in this House would depend on their representing the point of view and philosophies of their respective parties. 
I suggest that in practice most government bills would pass as quickly as they do now, or even more quickly if we took up  Senator Hamer's  suggestion that the second reading speeches made in the House of Representatives not be repeated here. At last the Senate would become a true House of review. It has been my pleasure to serve on Senate committees, and for some time now I have chaired one of them. One part of that experience I enjoy is that on almost all occasions the discussions and the decisions that are reached, because they are outside the political spotlight, are depoliticised to a high degree. Would it not be wonderful if that same principle and policy were adopted in this place? We are aware of the difference in the performance of the Senate on Wednesdays, which are broadcast days, and on Tuesdays and Thursdays, which are non-broadcast days. Most of us are also aware of the sensible and careful way in which Senate committees are conducted when they are outside the spotlight of politics. I suggest that the decisions reached by the Senate would be far more valuable and far weightier if  Senator Hamer's  proposal were adopted. 
I know that during the preparation of legislation the Government consults many groups which have an interest in the particular area involved, but on most occasions those consultations are conducted without the knowledge of the general public. In many cases they are conducted without the knowledge of people who have a vital interest in the area. Certainly, those people have the ability to make representations to the relevant Minister or to the Prime Minister or to members of parliament; but if the Senate publicly called for representations and submissions and conducted inquiries in the open, with access for the Press while a decision was being reached, our affairs would be conducted far more democratically and sensibly. As  Senator Hamer  very ably pointed out, much of our legislation is rushed through. In many cases there is very good reason why that should be so, but in most cases there is no urgency about the Bills. Under  Senator Hamer's  proposal, if a committee decided that a Bill was not urgent and that there were some problems, public discussion could take place with a much broader input from the general public. That process occurs in Japan where every year when the Budget is being considered there is a general public debate in the Press and amongst the general population after the Government has drawn up the guidelines. When the Budget is finally presented it is no surprise to anybody because the issues have been canvassed and there has been a response by Government Ministers on most issues. That is the sort of environment in which decisions could be made in this place. 
I regard  Senator Hamer  as a very altruistic person. One of the great advantages in the moves we are proposing is that representations from the less populous States of Australia would be greatly enhanced. Senior Hamer represents the State of Victoria, which has a very large population; but Western Australia, Tasmania, and possibly South Australia and Queensland would benefit a great deal from this type of reorganisation. The Senate would be a much more powerful body and would give due consideration to the needs and requirements of the smaller States. In spite of the strange noises that  Senator Chaney  has been making during this debate, I strongly suggest that his position in particular would be greatly enhanced by the moves we are suggesting. I know that he has a great future. 
-I should imagine that that is exactly the position he would obtain. As I said before, I suggest that the present Ministers would occupy the most prominent positions as chairmen of the various committees and that their status would be enhanced.  Senator Hamer  drew an analogy with the situation in America, where the chairmen of the Senate committees have tremendous power. This proposal certainly would increase the status and responsibility of the present Senate Ministers, who would take over the role of chairmen of committees.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I have several other matters to canvass but because other senators wish to speak to this motion I will conclude my remarks at that point. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It relates to the possibility of building a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. Building such a plant would have considerable employment benefits and other benefits. Because of the South Australian Labor Government's refusal to allow an enrichment plant to be sited in South Australia and its most damaging refusal to allow the Roxby Downs project to proceed, will the Government give favourable consideration to the request from the State Government in Western Australia to allow an enrichment plant to be built in that State? 

 - Senator Walsh has today moved that the following is a matter of urgency: 
The failure of the Government to adequately supervise and ensure the proper administration and distribution of finance to rural industry. 
Those who were unfortunate enough to listen to the mover of the motion and to  Senator Evans,  who has just resumed his seat, heard very little in their speeches relating to the subject of the motion. In questioning why this motion was moved today, I guess it is a coincidence that the Victorian State election will be held fairly soon.  Senator Walsh  was great at pretending concern for farmers, but  Senator Maunsell,  who will be the next  speaker  from this side, will demonstrate in no uncertain manner just how much  Senator Walsh  and his party really concerned themselves with farmers in the period from 1972 to 1975.  Senator Webster,  in his opening remarks, adequately covered the points that were made by  Senator Walsh. Senator Webster  demonstrated that the matter we are discussing really is not a Commonwealth matter, that the Victorian Rural Finance and Settlement Commission is administered by the Victorian Government and that the Commonwealth has very little reason to be concerned with that Government's administration of the Commission. As  Senator Webster  ably pointed out, the Opposition's remarks can be directed only at those public servants who are charged with the administration of this Commission. 
I question also the role of the Opposition. I have questioned that role in this place before. I should have thought that a decent Opposition would try to be constructive, but  Senator Walsh  must be the leader of a team which is entirely destructive in its comments. They make no suggestions for improvement. They just try to tear things down all the time. As I said before,  Senator Maunsell  will discuss the performance of the Labor Party when it was in government. It is my intention to discuss some of the things this Government is doing for rural people and the administration of those funds.  Senator Evans,  in his typically legalistic manner, must have added up a few more points towards his aspirations to be the next Attorney-General, but he did not contribute very much other than that. It is surprising to me that a person who really understands the experiences of rural people, such as  Senator Primmer,  was not invited to contribute to this debate.  Senator Primmer,  probably alone in the Opposition, would understand what rural disaster really means. 
The motion gives me an opportunity to discuss some of the things this Government has done for rural people and rural industries and to discuss the handling of those things. May I talk first of all about tax reform, with particular reference to the investment allowance. This was an initiative which the Government introduced two years ago and which is proving to be of tremendous benefit to rural producers. In addition, tax averaging is of direct benefit to rural producers. We have lifted the limit on tax averaging from $16,000 to no limit at all and have given the producers an opportunity to move into or out of tax averaging at will. In respect of income equalisation deposits, an amount of $66. 7m was invested to 
June 1978. This Government has completely abolished estate and gift duty from the Federal point of view. 
I mention also tax scales which are of direct importance to primary producers. If we take  Mr Hayden  's 1975 Budget as a measure, the present tax scales will reduce the tax commitment of Australians by $3,000m. Another direct concern to rural producers must be the sales tax on motor vehicles. This Government has reduced sales tax from 27.5 per cent to 15 per cent. I mention also the isolated parents travel and accommodation assistance scheme which is of direct benefit to people living more than 200 kilometres away from a major city. This is of tremendous assistance to them and will be taken advantage of by many people. 
I remind the Opposition that this Government is providing $6m for trials into carcass classification. It has given very strong financial support to the wool reserve price which has increased by 5 per cent in the current year. I draw the attention of the Senate to the price support for apples and pears, the modified stabilisation plan for sultanas and to a matter of particular importance to isolated people, the fuel freight subsidy scheme, which was removed by the Labor Government and reintroduced by this Government. I remind the Senate that the Government is committed to the building of an animal health laboratory at Geelong and to the establishment of a high security animal quarantine station on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I remind the Senate of the $225,000 that has been granted to widen the scope of rural research and to establish a rural research advisory council and of the $100,000 matching grant to the Australian Wine Research Institute for this current year. 
I remind the Senate also of the increase in funds for rural reconstruction, wool research and promotion, control and eradication of cattle diseases and the underwriting of dairy products. There are many more schemes. The first advance price for wheat was lifted this year from $66 a tonne to $75 a tonne. Probably for the first time in the history of this federation there has been quite a substantial reduction in the annual costs to telephone users. There has been a 20 per cent reduction in charges for subscriber trunk dialled calls and trunk calls booked through an operator at particular times on Sunday and a 60 per cent reduction in the charge for STD and other trunk calls between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. The Government has also widened the area of influence of the free line plant entitlement scheme for people who have been connected to automatic telephone exchanges. It was a dismal failure of the previous 
Labor Government that it reduced this entitlement. This Government has introduced more than pertained before. 
I remind the Opposition in particular that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  recently made a commitment to do all he possibly could to ensure that there was at least a twice-weekly mail delivery for isolated people. I am certain that nobody on the Opposition side has really experienced what it is like to live in isolated areas and be without any communications whatever. I also remind the Opposition that this Government is committed to provide television reception for a very wide section of isolated Australia. We are committed to spending $200m on a national water resources program, and in the current year $20m will be spent in that area. We have lifted the funding for local government from $80m in 1975-76 to $140m in 1976-77, $165m in 1977-78 and $179m in 1978-79. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  The point of order is not upheld. 
If I might just address myself to the remarks made by  Senator Button,  I draw the Senate's attention to the wording of the motion. It talks about adequately supervising and ensuring the proper administration and distribution of finance to rural industry. I have been addressing my remarks to distribution and administration. To take a narrow interpretation of the motion, as  Senator Button  and  Senator Evans  before him have done, is completely erroneous. 
Before I was interrupted I was talking about the funds that had been allocated to local government. In the current financial year there is a $170m commitment by this Government to local government. The rural roads commitment by this Government was $109m in 1976-77, and it has been estimated that in the current financial year $ 172m will be spent in this area. There are many other matters I could draw to the attention of the Senate, but should  Senator Button's  narrow interpretation of the motion be accepted I would remind honourable senators that in not one of the cases that I mentioned has there ever been any question about the administration of funds. 
The Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme, which will cost the Commonwealth a great deal of money this year, has allowed Tasmanian farmers to compete equally on mainland markets with farmers from other parts of Australia. I have some reservations about that scheme, partly because I do not happen to live in Tasmania and partly because in a huge State such as my State of Western Australia the costs of transporting goods from remote areas to main markets are certainly far greater than the costs of transporting goods across Bass Strait. 
This Government allocated $58m to the States for drought, flood and fire relief in 1977-78. It made $132m available in 1977 and $159m the previous year for farm development loans. It has provided about $40m for the phosphate fertiliser bounty and an estimated $ 10m for the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. The estimate for expenditure on the agriculture tractor bounty this financial year is $5. 5m. 
In 1977-78 $28m was provided to the beef industry for carry-on finance, which was urgently needed to overcome a situation which has only just been resolved by the current relatively high price for cattle. Beef producers benefited to the extent of another $28m because of the suspension of the export inspection charge which had been reintroduced by the Labor Government. I would point out also that the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication program will cost Commonwealth taxpayers $2 5. 5m in the current financial year. 
There are many other matters I could mention if I wished to extend my time. I point out that in the fishing industry, another primary industry, the Government is moving ahead with a great expectation that when Australia's fishing rights are extended to the 200-mile limit the fishermen of Australia will be ready to take advantage of that extension. There are many other areas where the Government has demonstrated that it has the interests of the farmer and the rural community at heart. 
I congratulate  Senator Walsh  on his contribution to the debate and the Opposition on the support which it is giving to this very simple and straightforward Bill, the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Amendment Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Act 1958 in order to widen the definition of ' dairy produce ' under section 4 of the Act so as to enable the Australian Dairy Corporation to undertake the domestic promotion of all dairy products including market milk, that is, milk sold for human consumption and fresh milk products. As ohe of the Opposition members in the House of Representative said, the Bill reinforces the fact that milk is milk. 
I do not intend to talk about the Bill today. I wish to talk about a matter that is of tremendous moment to dairy producers in Australia. I refer to the activities of the European Economic Community- the very highly subsidised rate of dairy production in EEC countries and the fact that their surplus production is being sold on the markets that Australia traditionally supplies. The protection given to the dairy industry in EEC countries is such that there is a 10 per cent surplus of production over consumption. I cite the figures for the current surplus stocks of dairy products in EEC countries: 426,000 tonnes of butter, 340,000 tonnes of cheese and 716,000 tonnes of skim milk powder. The cost of support for producers in those countries, expressed in Australian dollars, amounts to $4,300 per tonne of butter, which is almost four times the world price, and $1,700 per tonne of cheese, which is about  Vh  times the world price for that commodity. In the very rare case that Australia is able to export dairy products to the EEC, it imposes a levy on Australian exports. In the case of butter, the levy amounts to $3,500 a tonne and in the case of cheese it is $3,000 a tonne. This has the effect of almost totally stopping our exports of dairy products to those countries. 
On the other hand, Australia imports about 10,000 tonnes of cheese annually. About half of that comes from New Zealand and about half comes from the EEC countries. We impose a levy of $96 a tonne on imports of cheese from EEC countries. That must be compared with the levy of $3,000 a tonne that the EEC countries impose on Australian exports. 
-That is the point I am trying to make. The subsidy has the effect of increasing production far beyond the Community's consumption and subsidising the exports to countries to which Australia normally exports. I am not in favour of trade barriers and I do not believe in retaliatory trade barriers; but in this case the industry awaits with a great deal of interest the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on this subject, which will be published later this year. 
I thank  Senator Archer  for his interjection. 1 understand that that is right. The IAC report is due on 15 March. The situation would not be quite so bad if the EEC did not have this enormous carry-over that is building up all the time. I said before, in answer to an interjection from  Senator Baume,  that the production levels in the EEC countries are increasing at the rate of about 2 per cent a year. The value of export subsidies, expressed in Australian dollars, is running at the rate of about $2,900 a tonne in the case of butter, about $ 1 ,600 a tonne in the case of cheese and about $ 1,200 a tonne in the case of skim milk powder. As I said, this has the effect of increasing production in the EEC by 2 per cent a year. It must be remembered that the Community has a tremendous surplus even now. 
It has been rumoured that there was a recent sale of about 20,000 tonnes of butter by the EEC to Eastern European countries. I understand that this was well below world prices. I mentioned previously that we apply a levy of $96 a tonne for our cheese imports and also that the EEC countries apply a levy of $1,600 a tonne for potential Australian exports. It is, of course, impossible to compete on those terms. I very strongly support the work of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  in trying to overcome these problems and I would certainly recommend that they start a campaign in the newspapers and amongst consumer groups and other interested people in those countries to try to demonstrate that the cost of supporting this industry as they are doing is increasing their food costs dramatically and also increasing the cost to the taxpayer. It is a crazy situation. It is a situation which we cannot sustain or support and is an example of protectionism going mad. 
Finally, I would like to suggest to the dairy industry and to the Government that during the protracted negotiations with regard to the adoption of the Crawford report, the principles of supply and demand not be overlooked. I am afraid that in many cases the dairy producer organisations have not seen eye to eye from State to State and have not agreed with the principles that were enunciated in the Crawford report. It is a very fine report and I think if it had been adopted as it was or with a few modifications it would have solved many of the problems of the industry. But it was not adopted, mainly as a result of strong representations from the State of Victoria. I am afraid that we may finish up with a situation that is not much better than the situation that prevailed before. I would like to stress again that we cannot get away from the principles of supply and demand, that the export price, in fact the local price, must be reflected in the demand from overseas and local sources. In short, I strongly support the Bill and on behalf of the dairy producers of Austalia would like to wish the Prime Minister and the Minister for Special Trade Representations the very best of good luck. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement on behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. 
Leave granted. 
On 23 November 1 978 the Senate referred the following matter to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources for investigation and report: 
The replacement of petroleum-based fuels by alternative sources of energy, with regard to: 
research into alternative fuels; 
development and demonstration of practical alternatives; and 
fiscal and other measures to encourage their adoption. 
I wish to advise the Senate that on 2 1 February 1 979 the Committee advertised the inquiry in the national Press inviting submissions by 31 July 1979. As well as the Press advertisement the Committee is also making direct contact with individuals, firms and organisations known to have a particular interest in the subject of the inquiry. 
The Committee's current inquiry into the 'adequacy of quarantine and other control measures to protect Australia 's pastoral industries from the introduction and spread of exotic livestock and plant diseases' is now in its final stages. Following presentation of its report to the Senate early in the Budget Session the Committee will commence a program of public hearings in respect of the energy reference. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The subject of the adequacy and fairness of zone allowances has been debated for many years. Is the Government reviewing the present arrangement with a view to overcoming the existing anomalies? If so, what stage has the review reached? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. At the Australian Agricultural Council meeting in Christchurch, New Zealand, on 30 January this year, agreement was reached between State Ministers of Agriculture for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to release the insect species which is expected to control Paterson 's curse biologically. Representatives of rural organisations that support this action have expressed concern to me that because of representations from apiarists the insect may not be released. Can the Minister say whether the insect will be released; and, if so, where and when? 
I would like to make a few brief comments in regard to the Government's response to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources, of which I am Chairman, into the Commonwealth's role in the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia 's water resources. In all, the report contained some 33 recommendations. With about three exceptions the Government has accepted those recommendations and has put their implementation in  train. The  first recommendation was that the Government make a clear statement of Commonwealth water policy. This already  has been presented to the Senate. The second recommendation was to adopt specific activities mentioned in the document 'A National Approach to Water Resources Management'. This has been accepted with regard to matters pertaining to the Commonwealth. The third recommendation was to leave maximum responsibility for water resource matters with the States. This was accepted. 
The fourth proposal was to separate policy and non-policy water functions. That was divided into two parts. It was suggested that the Department of National Development would have primary water policy responsibility. This was accepted. The Government claims it already has been implemented. I point out that in the report the Committee drew attention to the fact that at the time of writing the report there were some 20 Commonwealth departments and agencies that had some responsibility for water matters. I look forward with interest to the Government's response to that recommendation. The second part of that fourth recommendation was that a bureau of water resources be established to handle non-policy matters. This is one of the recommendations that was not accepted by the Government, although it has given a promise that it will be reviewed at some future date. The next recommendation was that a statutory institute of meteorology be established. This also was not accepted. Unfortunately, this recommendation was pre-empted by a committee of inquiry into the Bureau of Meteorology. That inquiry came down quite strongly against the recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. I wish to refer to page 1 9 of the Committee 's report where it states: 
While recognising that the Bureau performs functions other than those strictly concerned with water resources it is appropriate to ask whether the Bureau should continue to be located within the Department of Science, or moved to the Department of National Development which has a major water resource role, or be given an independent status. 
The Committee finally came down with the recommendation for the Bureau to be given independent status. However, the Committee accepts the recommendations of the committee of inquiry into the Bureau of Meteorology and personally I do not feel very strongly about that matter. Recommendation No. 6 relates to assisting the financing of sewage treatment works as separate programs, and this recommendation has not been accepted. The Government has responded by saying that sewage treatment is a normal component of urban housing development. Recommendations Nos 7 and 8 suggest that there be a clear national water research policy and that a national water research program be funded. This recommendation has been accepted in principle. It was further recommended that flood mitigation be funded as a separate program, and that recommendation has been accepted. The Committee also recommended that a comprehensive water planning technique be adopted and that the States be encouraged to adopt such techniques. That recommendation has been accepted, and guidelines have already been drawn up by the Australian Water Resources Council. Further, it was recommended that responsibility for sewerage and waste water be transferred to the Department of National Development, and that recommendation has been accepted. There are many other recommendations, but I think that I have covered most of the important ones. 
The only major recommendation which I have not yet covered and which has not been accepted relates to water research matters carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The Committee recommended that a separate division of water resources be created within the CSIRO. Again our report was pre-empted by a quite comprehensive inquiry into the whole operation of the CSIRO. I do not feel very strongly about the fact that the Government has accepted the recommendations of that inquiry and not ours. The Government has pointed out that very shortly the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  will be making a statement in regard to the CSIRO 's role in water resources. 
I should like to say how interesting the inquiry was. Many submissions were put to the Committee and we did a great deal of travelling around the countryside. We saw many interesting things and many alarming things. In particular, I draw the Senate's attention to the state of salinity of the River Murray. Although the Commonwealth has very limited power to do anything about the matter, we were quite distressed to see the hardship that is being created by the problem in the Deniliquin area in particular. 
-That is right; in the Deniliquin area. It is quite alarming. In my State of Western Australia there are quite substantial areas of saline encroachment. The Commonwealth and the States, in conjunction with the Australian Water Resources Council, will have to come to grips with these problems.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Thomas  has sought leave to continue his remarks later. Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. I now call  Senator McLaren. 
-I wish to be associated with the remarks which have been made on the passing of  Sir David  Brand. He was a close friend of mine for a number of years after I moved from South Australia to Western Australia and took up residence and bought a farm in his electorate of Greenough. It was a mark of his majestic attitude and of the great politician he was that he made one feel that he knew each person he met personally and very closely. I remember that the first occasion on which I met him was at a country show at which we were exhibiting sheep. It was in 1965, the year after I went to Western Australia. Along with many hundreds of other people I met him briefly at that show. At another show about a fortnight later he remembered my name and we carried on quite a conversation. He also remembered the name of my brother and almost every word we had said two or three weeks before. 
Another mark of his greatness in public life is the fact that, although he was brought up in a little place called Isseka where our farm was situated, later moved to Mullewa and after that was a storekeeper in Dongera before he entered politics, each of those three centres regards him as its own. If anyone wants to start an argument amongst those three districts around Geraldton, he needs only to claim  Sir David  Brand as his own. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  mentioned, he was the first elected Liberal member in Australia. He was very proud of that fact and reminded his friends and colleagues of it on many occasions. I remember one memorable occasion when he was opening a country show in his electorate. Things had not been going too well in the farming areas. There had been a drought. Farmers are  renowned for their  ability to complain and this occasion was no exception. To try to deflate the feeling which was then prevalent he waved his arm in a grand manner and said: 'Look at all these magnificent cars; you cannot be doing too badly'. He appreciated the subsequent burst of laughter because his car was the closest and most apparent. 
He was a great man. The words that come to mind to describe him are 'kindly', 'warm' and quiet'. During the record time that he presided over Western Australia as its Premier there was never any skerrick of suspicion about his character or behaviour. It is sad that that cannot be said about some other people. I wish to be associated with the remarks that have been made. I extend my sympathies to his wife, Lady Brand, and his family, whom I know quite well. He is certainly going to be missed in the area in which I live and the whole of Western Australia will be the poorer for his passing. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and relates to a recent decision of the Prices Justification Tribunal which had the effect of pricing fuel for piston engined aircraft at 1 5c a litre higher than fuel for jet engines. This 50 per cent rise will increase substantially costs in remote areas of Australia, particularly on station properties where the use of light aircraft has become virtually essential. Will the Minister refer this matter to the Minister he represents with a view to relieving light aircraft users of some of this substantial cost increase? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee F on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question of the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce relates to the Prime Minister's speech in Manila yesterday during which he attacked the protectionist policies of developed countries. As Australia is frequently criticised by developing countries for its own protectionist policies, can the Prime Minister's comments be construed to include criticism of our policies? Does the Prime Minister's speech indicate a change in our trading policies which could lead to considerable benefit to our export industries? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. A joint Commonwealth-State committee of inquiry was established about five years ago and charged with the responsibility of reporting on the future development of the Perth Airport. Because of serious and increasing overcrowding and because of the long lead time for the planning and construction of new buildings, will the Minister indicate to the Minister he represents that the committee should report as soon as possible? 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee F and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 1 preface it by referring to the considerable risk to the Australian livestock industry posed by the presence in Papua New Guinea and Irian Jaya of the screw worm fly. Because of the possibility of the fly becoming established in Australia, because of the potential threat to the livestock industry and because of the considerable difficulty and expense of eradication, particularly in the sometimes inaccessible parts of northern Australia where the first outbreak is likely to occur, will the Government consider negotiating with the governments of Papua New Guinea and Indonesia with a view to assisting those governments to eradicate the screw worm fly in their countries? 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee F and seek leave to have it incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-by leave- On behalf of  Senator Walters  I table additional information received by Senate Estimates Committee C and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Some months ago I asked the Minister a question about the sheep blowfly. I have since received further representations from graziers' organisations pointing out to me the enormous cost of blowflies to the wool industry and what they regard as the relatively low priority placed on this problem by Australian research organisations. What is the extent of current research being undertaken into sheep blowfly in Australia. 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee F and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) How many cyclone warnings were given by the Perth Cyclone Warning Centre between 1 2 noon and 1 2 midnight on Tuesday, 13 March 1979, and when was each warning given. 
How many cyclone warnings were broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission through regional stations covering the Geraldton/Northam area of Western Australia between 12 noon and 12 midnight on Tuesday, 13 March 1 979, and when was each warning given. 
1 direct the attention of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to an answer she gave to a point I raised in relation to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs on the sale of petroleum products. The departmental officers, when questioned admitted to Senate Estimates Committee F that they have no system of ascertaining whether the cost of the freight subsidy is passed on to the consumer. The purpose of raising this point in our report was to ask the Government whether there is any possible way in which this can be checked so that this chamber can be assured that the benefit of this money expended on behalf of the taxpayers is reaching the people for whom it is intended. 
The hour is late but in fairness to Senate Estimates Committee F, of which I was the  Chairman,  I would like to draw attention to the Committee's report. There are three matters I would like to discuss. The first relates to the Postal and Telecommunications Department. Division 480.4.02 refers to the provision of a $60,000 contribution to the International Telecommunication Union. The Committee's report reads: 
This item provides for the payment of the Department's share of Australia 's contribution towards the budget of the International Telecommunication Union. The Committee  was advised thai the additional expenditure was required to meet exchange rate variations. 
The Committee was satisfied with the Department's explanations on this matter and it was satisfied that the Department was working within the guidelines established by the Department of Finance. But the Committee does urge the Department, now that Australia has adopted an exchange rate which fluctuates with a trade weighted basket of currencies, to ensure wherever possible that it deals in a currency which is less likely to be affected by adverse fluctuations. 
The second item in the report which I draw to the attention of this chamber also comes under the Postal and Telecommunications Department. Division 480.2.07 provides for compensation payment of some $5,000 to  Dr G.  N. Evans. The Committee has no objections to the payment. The matter is fairly complicated so, if I may, I will read from the Committee's report. It reads: 
This item was included in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1 978-79 for the ordinary annual services of the Government, a Bill which, under the Constitution, the Senate cannot amend. 
Its purpose is to provide to an officer a lump sum compensation payment, as determined by the Prime Minister, for the termination of his services to the Broadcasting Control Board following its abolition in 1976. 
Since it appeared to the Committee that this expenditure was not an ordinary annual service of the Government, the Department of Finance was asked why this item was not included in Appropriation Bill (No. 4) which the Senate, under the Constitution, is able to amend. 
In writing, the Department explained that the lump sum compensation payment was calculated as the difference between the salary applicable to the position to which the officer was appointed following the abolition of the Board and the salary which the officer would have received had he completed his term of appointment. lt was further explained that the procedure followed was consistent wilh Public Service practice and, in effect, was a payment in lieu of salary. The item, therefore, was listed as an expenditure for the ordinary annual services of the Government. Despite this explanation, the Committee is not satisfied that the payment can be classified as an 'ordinary' or 'annual' expenditure. There has been no previous provision under any statute to pay the compensation. It is not ordinary' because a determination by the Prime Minister on an appropriate amount has been required to effect the compensation. Also, the Officer has not received payment for services rendered to the Government since the amount is compensation payable to make up for salary lost by Government decision. Therefore, the Committee suggests that the amount cannot bc classified as 'salary' and should not have been included in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) as an ordinary annual service. 
While, on this occasion, the amount involved is small, to the Committee the principle is not. The Committee re-states paragraph 31 of the Report from the Committee appointed by Government Senators on Appropriation Bills and the Ordinary Annual Services of the Government (Parliamentary Paper No. 55 of 1967): 
The Government has the Constitutional right to introduce any proposed law appropriating revenue or moneys- it is only the Government through whom the Governor-General's recommendation under section 56 of the Constitution can be submitted. But the decision as to the proper form of an Appropriation Bill does not belong to the Government- it is a decision to be made by the Parliament. This emphasises the importance of continuing the Parliamentary practice- or improving the definition of itwhich determines the form in which the amendable Bill will be acceptable to the Parliament. 
To this the Committee can only add that under similar circumstances as described above where doubt may arise in deciding in which Appropriation Bill an item should appear, such doubt should be resolved by excluding the item from the Appropriation Bill for the ordinary annual services ofthe Government. 
The third item to which I wish to draw the attention of the Committee is in relation to the provision for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs under Division 195, subdivision 3, item 06. It has to do with 'Sale of Petroleum Products (Northern Territory) Financial assistance, $1,100,000'. The item provides for payment of a subsidy to registered distributors in the Northern Territory of certain eligible petroleum products. The purpose of the subsidy is to reduce the price of petrol to consumers in isolated areas. Most of those who have been involved in that project would recognise is at the Petroleum Products Fuel Freight Subsidy Scheme. It was found, after a great deal of questioning, that the Department had no idea whether this subsidy was being passed to the consumer. This was of great concern to the Committee, which recommended that the Government arrive at a system of evaluating the effectiveness of the scheme so that the Commonwealth dollar would be passed on to the consumer. 
Finally, I draw the attention of the Senate to a matter that arose out of the last item to which I have referred.  Senator Gietzelt  raised a question as to the breakdown of the amount that had been paid to the fuel companies. I should like to quote from a paper that has been provided to me on the subject: 
During the consideration ofthe Estimates for the Department of Business and Consumer A flairs  Senator Gietzelt  sought information on the amounts of fuel freight subsidy paid to oil companies in the Northern Territory. 
A written reply to  Senator Gietzelt  's question was subsequently received by the Committee, but after the Committee's report had been tabled. 
The answer provided by the Department supplied the breakdown of fuel freight subsidy payments, as requested. However, the answer concluded- 
You will appreciate that when produced this way the information discloses the market percentages achieved by the individual marketers in the Territory, lt is not available to the public or to marketers in this form. In other words, the Department regards it as confidential '. 
This left the Committee in a somewhat difficult situation. Under the Standing Orders, committees are able to take evidence in open session only. Under present practice, unless otherwise determined by the Senate, Estimates committees are unable to receive in camera evidence. The Committee felt that it was faced with two options: Either to determine that confidentiality was not involved and table the answer, or to respect the Department's plea, resolve not to receive the answer in its present form and return it to the Department. In the end, the Committee accepted the latter option; the answer was returned to the Department. 
To some extent, the subject matter to which I refer might appear to many to be unimportant. However, the principle of information being withheld from Estimates committees, and hence from the Senate on the grounds of commercial confidentiality, in the opinion of the Committee is important. The Committee is firmly of the opinion that whatever public moneys are made available to departments, statutory authorities or, in this case, private companies, such information should be readily available for use by Estimates committees. In this instance, the information was made available but in a form which the Committee quite properly resolved it did not have the power to receive. Both accountability for expenditure of public moneys and the question of commercial confidentiality are related. 
If it is proposed that Estimates committees should receive information in all areas where public moneys are expended, eventually the flow of information may be halted by the cry of commercial confidentiality. Information which committees may feel they are entitled to receive could continue to be withheld under the guise of commercial confidentiality. The question then remains: How can this information be properly received? Who is to determine whether a matter is confidential or whether the commercial operations of a statutory authority or a private company will be. adversely affected by public disclosure of certain information? Should it be the Minister or the Estimates Committee concerned? Under the present practice, the Estimates committees do not have the power to receive the information to determine whether, one way or the other, confidentiality is involved. The Committee, of course, is aware that by presenting its case to the Senate support can be obtained for the tabling of documents which currently may not be obtained through Estimates committees. 
I am aware that this whole question of Estimates committees taking in camera evidence where commercial or other confidentiality is involved is currently being considered by the Standing Orders Committee. To some extent, the ability of this Committee to move a motion on the matter is inhibited by this fact. Consideration has been given to my moving a motion on behalf of Estimates Committee F concerning commercial accountability. However, out of deference to the Standing Orders Committee, I do not propose to move such a motion at this stage since this might be seen to pre-empt that Committee's consideration of the matter. I feel that I speak for Estimates Committee F when I ask that the Standing Orders Committee determine its attitude on this whole matter and report to the Senate as soon as possible so that the whole question can be resolved. 
I said before that I am sorry to take up the time of the Senate at this late hour, but I would also like to say how much the Committee has appreciated the tremendous response it has had from the various departments and, in particular, it would like to single out the Australian Broadcasting Commission for being so responsive. Some of the supplementary information it supplied this year was a little late but I guess that problem will be overcome next year. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs the recent series of strikes at oil refineries which placed the supply of fuel at risk. I also draw to his attention the low stocks of oil and fuel normally held in Australia and the fact that should farmers run short of fuel for only a few days at certain times of the year their income for the year could be substantially reduced. Will the Government consider the instigation of contingency plans so that in the event of shortages priority for the supply of fuel could be given to areas of high priority such as agricultural industries? 
-On behalf of  Senator Knight  I present the following petition from 208 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition ofthe undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
In the Soviet-occupied Lithuania. Viktoras Petkus, a member of the group to monitor Soviet compliance with the Helsinki agreement, was sentenced to a severe punishment at the same time as other Soviet dissidents. Shcharansky and Ginzburg. 
Since Viktoras Petkus, and the group he is a member of. conducted their activities openly, believing that the Soviet constitution granted them some rights not only in word but also in fact, this severe punishment is a blatant denial of human rights recognised even by the Soviet constitution. 
We ask the Australian Government to make representations to the United Nations to adopt a resolution condemning Soviet violations of human rights, and to request the Soviet Government to release the unjustly incarcerated Viktoras Petkus. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to an article in the  West Australian  of 6 June 1979 relating to a survey of stress on the earth 's upper crust that was carried out during 1976 by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The survey found high levels of compressive stress in several parts of the south-west of Western Australia. Can the Minister inform the Senate: firstly, what results the survey showed for the earthquake affected area; secondly, whether the Cadoux-Manning- Wongan Hills region of Western Australia has had a recent history of earthquake activity and whether that area has been designated zone 1 on a recently prepared earthquake risk map of Australia; thirdly, because of the importance and benefit of maintaining accurate records, whether the Government will consider giving top priority to ensuring that future surveys are undertaken throughout the earthquake risk area? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. A meeting of 34 commercial aircraft operators was held in Perth yesterday to discuss the shortage of fuel confronting these operators. I understand that the shortage has had the effect of reducing fuel supplies by 30 per cent in the southern part of Western Australia and by 55 per cent in the north. I ask the Minister: Firstly, is there any truth in the rumour that the one oil company in Australia which produces aviation fuel for piston-engined aircraft is planning to sell some of this fuel to New Zealand? Secondly, as there are two areas in which the Commonwealth uses substantial amounts of aviation fuel- namely, defence and coastal surveillance- are the cutbacks in supplies being experienced by the commercial operators being shared by defence and coastal surveillance operations? Thirdly, does the Government understand that some of these operators may be forced into liquidation because of fuel shortages? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing both the Minister for National Development and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It is illegal at present for small unlicensed distilleries to be operated in Australia. Because of the increasing cost and the risk of irregular supplies of oil-based fuels for rural production, will the Government consider allowing small distilleries to be operated in country areas to provide ethanol or grain alcohol as a fuel supplement and, depending on the product used for distillation, a high protein stock food as a by-product? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Tariffs and import quotas are designed to assist infant Australian industries to become established. Could the Minister inform the Senate why a tariff is imposed on imported diesel engines suitable for motor vehicles when no such engines are manufactured in Australia? Diesel engines produce less pollution and use less energy than petrol engines of similar horsepower. Should not their importation be encouraged rather than discouraged? If Australian manufacturers of petrol engines believe that a reduction in tariffs on imported diesel engines would threaten their profitability, would it not be preferable to encourage them to manufacture diesel engines in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) Are some farmers and pastoralists in what are historically safe rainfall areas of the northern wheat belt of Western Australia experiencing their fourth successive drought with disastrous effects on all business in the area. 
Will the Commonwealth Government promptly and generously meet its obligations under the guidelines for Commonwealth funding for national disasters, as set out in Budget Paper No. 7, pages 83-84, particularly in view of the Western Australian Government, which is responsible for drought relief in the State, having lifted morale in the affected areas by responding quickly to the situation. 
Can the administration of drought relief in the affected areas be left, in the spirit of Co-operative Federalism, to the Western Australian Government, in view of the responsible way in which that Government has administered drought relief and accepted responsibility for any resultant bad debts. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of the recently released report by the Pastoral Industry Review Committee chaired by  Mr B.  G. Jennings which was established in Western Australia in 1 977? Is the Minister aware that several recommendations relate to Commonwealth Government policy? Will the Minister bring this report to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry whom he represents in the Senate so that the Commonwealth Government's response can be forthcoming in the near future? 
I wish to make a short contribution to this debate on the Quarantine Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. In doing so I would like to congratulate the Opposition for supporting this Bill and  Senator Grimes,  in particular, for the quite interesting contribution he made. Although  Senator Grimes  expressed concern about deliberate breaches of the Act, I suggest to him and to the Opposition that in many cases breaches are committed through ignorance. There is a great need to educate the potential visitor to this country, in the country of origin and on the way to Australia, about the tremendous risks to our agricultural industry presented by the introduction of these diseases and to point out to them the very large increase in penalties that was enacted earlier this year. 
I welcome this legislation. It seeks to do three things. Firstly, it seeks to compensate for the destruction of animals and plants not directly diseased or infected. Secondly, it seeks to give assistance to quarantine officers in the carrying out of their duty by giving them much wider powers of entry and search. Thirdly, it removes the requirement for travellers to report an illness experienced within 14 days of entry.  Senator Grimes  expressed concern as to the reasons for removing that requirement. I confess a similar problem but I suspect, although it is not explained in the second reading speech, that it is because of the huge volume of travellers now coming to Australia and because the health cards, which are checked at the port of entry, are considered to be sufficient protection for the Australian population and for the Australian livestock and plant industries. I am  chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources which has recently completed an inquiry. Because the Committee had some difficulty in relating national resources to quarantine, for the benefit of the Senate I will read the Committee's terms of reference. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended for dinner I was making the point that the Senate Committee on National Resources, which I have the honour to chair, and in respect of which I am ably supported by Senators Tate, Robertson, Maunsell, McLaren and Teague, has since May 1978 been considering the subject of quarantine. Also, as I was outlining to the Senate, we had some difficulty in trying to rationalise how that subject could be associated with national resources. We discovered that quarantine did not fall within the responsibility of any other Senate Committee. Our terms of reference provide for inquiry into: 
The adequacy of quarantine and other control measures to protect Australia's pastoral industries from the introduction and spread of exotic livestock and plant diseases. 
During the inquiry we received 68 submissions and heard evidence from some 45 individuals and organisations. We expect to bring down our report in November. This Bill follows that introduced earlier this year, and passed by the Senate, which had also to do with quarantine and substantially increased the penalties imposed for offences under the Act. Our Committee applauds that move, because it tends to bring to the notice of the public, especially the travelling public, the great risks to our pastoral industries created by breaches of quarantine. It would be a departure from Senate practice to comment at this stage on our findings; and I do not intend to do so tonight. 
However, it is safe to say that certainly the Bill before us does not conflict in any way with the public evidence that we received. I am not saying that these changes would not have come about in any event, but many of the witnesses that we heard claimed that these changes had been suggested over a long period, and our Committee may well have been the catalyst for the changes which, after all, have occurred since our inquiry began. 
Australia, as  Senator Grimes  pointed out, by an accident of geography is remarkably free of many of the animal and plant diseases that plague the rest of the world. But, because of the tremendous increase in traffic into Australia, which is creating a greater degree of risk, that accident of geography is no longer enough. For that reason, our Committee recommends that certainly there should be a greater awareness of the risks involved. Those penalties will underline to the general public, the travelling public, and to magistrates in particular, the tremendous risks to agriculture that flow from the introduction of exotic diseases. I underline 'magistrates' because in recent history there has been very little desire on the part of the courts to award damages, or sufficiently severe penalties, when appropriate cases have been brought to their attention. 
The Bill provides for the compensation that is payable to people whose stock or goods, although they are not directly involved in the carrying of disease or insect pests, are destroyed. We applaud that provision very strongly. I refer, for example, to the recent bluetongue outbreak, which caused a great deal of distress in certain parts of northern Australia where the disease was not in evidence but a great many people were seriously disadvantaged. I refer to the creation of the buffer zone, an action which I do not think anyone argued against at the time. The carrying out of the controls was later criticised by rural organisations, but the risks to our export trade made necessary what was done. However, under the existing Act there was no provision for compensation to the people who, despite the fact that disease was not in evidence, were adversely affected. 
Another benefit of this legislation, which will guarantee producers compensation even though they may not be directly involved in a disease outbreak, is the encouragement of producers to report outbreaks or the risk of outbreaks. In the past, because compensation has not been clearly defined or guaranteed, human nature being what it is people have been reluctant to report what they suspect may be an outbreak. If compensation is guaranteed such reporting will be encouraged. 
In the light of subsequent events, I certainly do believe that some compensation should have been paid; that the legislation before us would have provided for its payment to people who, through no fault of their own, were subjected to great loss of markets and diminution of the prices received for their products. In some cases they could not even get their products to market. As I read it, the Bill before us would have taken care of that situation. A second provision of the Bill will give quarantine officers the power to enter and search, a power that has hitherto been lacking. This not only overcomes a serious anomaly in the Act but also puts quarantine officers on a level similar to that of Customs officers. It draws to the attention of the public the importance of quarantine to the Australian livestock industry. However, the Bill does not go far enough. Proposed new section 69a provides: 
The compensation payable under this section in respect of goods is an amount equal to- 
except where paragraph (b) or (c) applies- the market value of the goods immediately before their destruction; 
in the case of an animal (other than an animal to which paragraph (c) applies) destroyed by reason of the animal being infected, or suspected of being infected, with a disease- the market value that the animal would have had at the time of its destruction if it had not been infected or suspected of being infected; 
That does not envisage a situation in which there might be a serious outbreak of foot and mouth disease involving the slaughtering of huge numbers of stock and restocking at prices many times higher than those obtaining at the time of destruction. Also, the Bill does not refer to the effects of such events on associated industries. For instance, an abattoir might have to close down if the wholesale destruction of stock occurred as a result of suspected outbreak of foot and mouth disease. Similarly, the Bill does not contemplate the effects of such an occurrence on stock companies. I draw to the attention of the Senate the fact that in certain areas of the United Kingdom that were subject to strict control of the movement of people and stock even the tourist industry was seriously affected. In my opinion, this legislation does not go far enough to consider some of the secondary effects and the necessity for massive destruction of livestock if an outbreak of foot and mouth disease occurred in Australia. Because of the qualification I gave in the early part of this address, I will not go any further now. I will have an opportunity to speak again when the Committee's report is before the Senate. It is my belief that until now quarantine has received insufficient attention from the Government, but I support the legislation as far as it goes. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Yesterday's Senate debate on the States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill brought to light some disturbing reflections on the ability of the Bureau of Transport Economics to apportion Commonwealth road funds reasonably as between the States. Will the Minister refer this matter to the Minister he represents with a view to the Government setting realistic guidelines for the Bureau? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I understand that appeals for assistance have been made- to the Government by local authorities because of the steep increase in gas prices which will mean that they, and ultimately the ratepayers, will have to pay a large amount of money to convert from gas to electricity. During its consideration of this matter, will the Government also consider the situation of energy users who are remote from electricity distribution grids and do not have any alternative to bottled gas and dieselene? 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that insurance companies and, thus, their policy holders are required to contribute a major portion of the cost of financing fire brigades in Australia although many policy holders live in areas not serviced by fire brigades? Is the Minister also aware that the Western Australian Government is acting to remove this burden from policy holders in that State? Will the Minister endeavour to persuade all State governments to take action similar to that being taken by the Western Australian Government so that people who live in remote areas are not required to pay a cost for which they receive no return? 
I draw to the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs an article which appeared in the Perth  Daily News  of 22 October 1979 headed 'Minister Criticizes Aborigines'. Is it a fact that the Minister has criticised the Noonkanbah community for repudiating an agreement with a mining company? Has such an agreement, if it exists, been repudiated? What is the present position concerning mining on Aboriginal pastoral leases in Western Australia? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, by pointing out that Commonwealth support for the Children's Services Program is by subsidy to selected child care and family day care centres and has the effect of creating competition between subsidised and unsubsidised private child care centres which operate in the same region; further, that the Commonwealth subsidy is designed to assist disadvantaged children, yet there are regions where only unsubsidised centres are situated, thus depriving disadvantaged children in that region of access to assistance. I ask: Will the Minister give consideration to applying the subsidy directly to disadvantaged children so that all such children can have access to the centre of their choice? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the limited reserves of fuel that are being and have been held in certain centres in Australia, and in view of the critical situation which would be caused to certain industries and emergency relief agencies if a fuel shortage occurred, even for only a short period, is the Government satisfied that it has as much information as is available so that it can forecast shortages sufficiently in advance? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, follows along the lines of those asked by  Senator Teague  and  Senator Chipp,  but is a little more specific. Australia depends for much of its aviation fuel for piston-engine aircraft on supplies from the Abadan refinery in Iran. Can the Minister give some indication when Australia will be selfsufficient in the production of avgas? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. The 100th anniversary of the first shipment of meat from Australia will occur later this year. The Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation is mounting a campaign to mark that event. As Australia is the largest exporter of meat in the world, and as this great industry means so much to so many Australians, will the Government be prepared to support the campaign or to take some independent action to remind Australia and the world of this important anniversary? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate based on reports of the first of  Mr Hawke  's Boyer lectures wherein he apparently advocated abolition of the States. Given the present Government 's commitment to an expanding role for the States and the benefits of decentralised decisionmaking and recalling that if a major political party campaigns against a constitutional amendment, the amendment has almost no chance of being passed, can  Senator Carrick  envisage any way that  Mr Hawke  's proposal to abolish the States can succeed? Does the Leader of the Government see  Mr Hawke  's comments as anything more than a rehash of one of  Mr Whitlam  's discredited policies? 
-I refer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to a recent Press release over his name where he announced that a  Mr Rowland  Q.C. is to head an inquiry into the matter of Aboriginal lands in the Northern Territory. Is the Minister satisfied that the terms of reference are sufficiently wide to allow  Mr Rowland  to investigate and report on all matters relating to Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory? Because of the flow-on effect into the States of Commonwealth land rights legislation, will  Mr Rowland  be empowered to take evidence from State governments? 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry to an answer supplied by  Senator Durack  yesterday to a question I asked on 2 1 August regarding the legality of the small scale production of grain alcohol as fuel. In the light of evidence provided by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources last Friday that suggested that vegetable oil would be a more economical and more practical alternative fuel than grain alcohol or ethanol, will the Minister ascertain whether there are any legal restrictions to the small scale production and use of vegetable oil as a fuel? Will the Minister also ascertain whether an excise tax or similar tax would be applied to such a product. 
-I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources of its inquiry into the adequacy of quarantine and other control measures to protect Australia's pastoral industries from the introduction and spread of exotic livestock and plant diseases. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
On behalf of the members of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources, I present the Committee's report on the adequacy of quarantine and other control measures to protect Australia's pastoral industries from the introduction and spread of exotic livestock and plant diseases. During the course of its inquiry, the Committee held 1 1 days of public hearings, together with inspections of quarantine facilities in Canberra, Melbourne, Geelong, Darwin, Thursday Island and Cairns. The main submissions were from the State governments and Commonwealth bodies, and from trade, industry and producer groups. The submissions recognised the need to maintain strict quarantine procedures and covered a wide variety of aspects, including administrative arrangements and specific matters in respect of the importation of cattle, sheep, birds, semen, fish, forestry products, rice, honey, dairy products, plants, and cut flowers, and of refugee boats and the uncontrolled movement of people and goods in Torres Strait. 
The increase in the scope and spread of air travel and the resultant greater movement of people and goods through trade have exposed Australia's pastoral industries to an everincreasing risk of the introduction of exotic diseases and pests of livestock and plants. Whilst quarantine has been relatively successful, the advantages of being an island continent no longer exist. Recognition must be given to the changing nature of quarantine, which is now primarily concerned with preventing the entry of agricultural pests and diseases and not human disease, as was the case when the Quarantine Act was introduced in 1 908. Humans are now more important as vectors of animal and plant diseases than as vectors of human diseases. In meeting the new challenges facing quarantine, the Committee considers that steps should be taken to improve the status of the quarantine service and to increase public awareness of, and respect for, quarantine requirements. 
The delegated role of the States in undertaking the operational role in respect of plant and animal quarantine has been very successful and should be continued. General quarantine should be incorporated as part of animal and plant quarantine and the operational aspects also should be delegated to the States. There are many aspects of plant and animal quarantine where very little is known about the range of pests and diseases that already exist in Australia. Research is required in these areas. Further attention also needs to be given to the preparation of control and eradication programs that involve veterinarians, police, civil defence organisations, primary producers and others. 
The effectiveness of Australia's quarantine service depends upon its legislative backing. The Quarantine Act is an old Act which has not been updated regularly and there are many deficiencies in the existing legislation. The Committee is particularly concerned that, in respect of animal and plant quarantine, doubts have been expressed about the legal basis for quarantine operations once a certificate of pratique has been issued. Another aspect of the Act that needs clarification is whether adequate powers exist under the Act to ensure that quarantine operations can be undertaken on Aboriginal reserves established under Commonwealth legislation. This is important in respect of monitoring, control and eradication measures in northern Australia. Other major deficiencies stem from the lack of definition of the powers of a quarantine officer and with reference to areas not specifically covered by the Act, such as itinerant yachts, birds, poultry, fish, pathogens and abandoned refugee boats. In order to improve the operational status of quarantine, the Quarantine Act must be amended to give quarantine officers the same powers of search as Customs officers so that quarantine is not seen to be in a position of lesser importance. Various suggestions were put to the Committee concerning the Act, ranging from the drafting of a completely new Act to piecemeal amendment of the existing Act. It was also suggested that the existing Act be supplemented by a new animal and plant import Act. Whilst the Committee can see merit in all of these suggestions, the continuity of quarantine operations must be ensured and the existing Act should be retained and amended as an interim step and the drafting of a new Act reflecting contemporary quarantine requirements should be undertaken as matter of priority. 
In recognising the changed nature of quarantine and the increased importance of plant and animal quarantine, a more effective quarantine service providing more thorough quarantine surveillance at airports and seaports could be achieved by integrating quarantine procedures relating to the clearance of overseas passengers, passengers' baggage, general cargo, containers and waste disposal into the animal and plant quarantine service. The operational aspects of quarantine should continue to be delegated to the State departments of agriculture. The Committee considers that the importance and status of quarantine in the eyes of overseas countries and the general public can best be upgraded by introducing an Australian quarantine service with a separate quarantine check undertaken by quarantine officers incorporated as an integral part of processing Australia's overseas passenger and cargo arrivals. 
The Committee envisages that the quarantine service would process a sample of incoming passengers for a separate quarantine check and make referrals to Customs officers on Customs matters. Customs officers would continue to refer quarantine matters detected in the Customs checks to quarantine officers. This means that twice as many incoming passengers would be checked without slowing the flow of passengers, with half handled by Customs officers for Customs purposes and half handled by quarantine officers for quarantine purposes. Representations should be made by the quarantine service to the Department of Transport for the provision of adequate quarantine facilities at all first ports of entry. 
Further importance needs to be given to surveillance in northern Australia and. in particular. Torres Strait. Some aspects of the current surveillance program should be reviewed immediately, particularly the use of untrained observers on surveillance nights, the staggering of flight times and the provision of back-up facilities to respond to sightings. The Torres Strait area should be proclaimed as a quarantine area to preserve the traditional movement guaranteed under the Torres Strait Territorial Boundaries Treaty 1 978 while at the same time restricting the movements of animals and plant material south to mainland Australia. 
The Committee is of the opinion that the location of quarantine within the Commonwealth administrative arrangements is not as important as ensuring that the status of the quarantine service is improved and that an integrated quarantine service is achieved. Nevertheless, in looking to the future the Committee considers that an Australian quarantine service should be located within the Commonwealth department that has responsibility for agricultural matters. The Committee recommends that an Australian agricultural health service be established as an independent unit within the Department of Primary Industry and have transferred to it the existing plant, animal and general quarantine divisions of the Department of Health and the Bureau of Animal Health and be supplemented by a new plant health or plant protection service. The Department of Health would retain responsibility for policy advice and treatment in relation to exotic human diseases and would provide advice to the quarantine service on the health documentation requirements of international travellers to be administered by that service. 
The Committee has been concerned with many aspects of the current administrative arrangements and considers that many of the existing problems stem from the lack of attention and initiative paid to quarantine matters in the past by the Department of Health. The recently improved performance by the Department of Health has been noted but on balance the Committee considers that the future interests of quarantine will be best served by transferring quarantine from the control of the Department of Health to the Department of Primary Industry. Irrespective of where quarantine is located there are a number of aspects which need to be improved. The policy-making role can be strengthened so that policy formulation and review needs to be clearly seen as the responsibility of the quarantine service. The policy-making role should incorporate an input from industry groups and associations and the chief quarantine officers' conference should be given a formal basis and developed to provide access to industry groups and organisations. 
At present Australia is unable to import animals and birds from many areas of the world because there are no facilities available to enable safe importation. This situation will continue until such time as the new on-shore and off-shore quarantine stations are completed and become operational. The off-shore quarantine station at Cocos Island will not become fully effective until the new Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation national animal health laboratory at Geelong is completed. The Committee recommends that completion of this project receive priority. Representations were made to the Committee that existing quarantine arrangements are unnecessarily harsh in respect of both animal and plant material for research purposes. The Committee recommends that further investigations be undertaken into extending the licensing of laboratory facilities as quarantine premises and the relationship and access of research establishments to the high security facilities of the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory. 
Although the immediate impact of plant pests and diseases is usually not as dramatic as in the case with animal diseases, plant pests and diseases have long-term significance as they reduce crop yields, add to costs of production and involve long-term control and eradication implications. The Committee considers that research on the wide range of plant sciences needs to be encouraged and increased. The Committee endorses the need for public education in plant quarantine matters to emphasise the reasons for Australia's strict plant quarantine laws. We suggest that publicity material be distributed to all international travellers and intending migrants. There is a need for the systematic survey and listing of weed species present in Australia to be given increased emphasis and that the noxious weed list used by Customs officers and prepared by plant quarantine be updated at regular intervals. Plant quarantine's role should also be extended to provide some involvement in coordinating insect monitoring and research programs. There should also be an involvement in co-ordinating entomological research aimed at compiling reference collections of potential endemic and exotic pests. 
A large number of submissions were received in respect of the import of cut flowers. The Committee accepts the present quarantine view that cut flowers pose a low quarantine risk but is nevertheless very concerned at the undetermined degree of risk from hitch-hiking organisms. We suggest that a research project be undertaken over a year involving both search and dissection of representative samples from all sources of supply. This will not only result in establishing the risk involved but also give an indication of those countries which present a risk and the effectiveness of pre-export treatment. 
The Committee is satisfied that the threats posed by exotic animal diseases are clearly understood and, generally, adequately guarded against. Specific anxieties with regard to the onshore and off-shore quarantine facilities, Torres Strait and port of entry inspection have been referred to elsewhere. The Committee considers that contingency plans for control and eradication of exotic disease should be discussed publicly to allow full debate, education and involvement of all persons in the community affected by such plans. The Committee observed that with regard to the import of aquarium fish, communication between industry groups and the various government bodies involved in producing a list of permitted and prohibited species has been very poor. The Committee considers that the reduction in the number of fish species approved for importation cannot be justified on quarantine grounds and recommends that further investigations be undertaken to establish the environmental issues involved. The Department of Science and the Environment should be responsible for producing and maintaining a list of permitted and prohibited fish species for use by the Bureau of Customs and the quarantine service. 
I wish to thank members of the Committee for their assistance and co-operation during the conduct of the inquiry and to thank all the State governments, Commonwealth bodies and all the individuals, firms and organisations which made submissions and assisted the Committee in other ways. I wish also to record my Committee's appreciation for the outstanding contribution made by our secretariat, Charles Edwards, Derek Abbott and Andrew Snedden. This report reflects the views of all members of the Committee and many meetings were held before the final draft was agreed upon, but a major reference such as this would be an impossible one to undertake in a meaningful way without a first class secretariat, which we are fortunate to have. I urge the Senate to recognise the important role played by the standing committee secretariat and to afford it as much support as possible. 
I would like finally to comment on two important matters in relation to the production of this report by the Australian Government Publishing 
Service. The first matter involves the priority accorded to Senate committee reports by AGPS. I would suggest that unless a priority is requested by the  President  all committee reports be accorded equal status by AGPS and processed in the order in which final manuscripts are received. 
Secondly, I wish to comment on changes made to the approved Committee manuscript by the editing and design sections of AGPS. When a report is adopted by a committee it should not then be altered without the committee's approval. With regard to this report certain specific instructions were ignored and changes made after the final proofs were returned to AGPS, an example being the alteration of the terms of reference in the title page. The use of bold type gives an incorrect emphasis to the Committee's inquiry, which was into 'the adequacy of quarantine and other control measures'. The recent disease outbreak in Tasmania clearly illustrates the importance of both aspects of the inquiry. 
I will take the unusual action tonight of using the first reading stage of a money Bill to discuss the subject of the major Bill itself- the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979-and the six other Bills that we are debating cognately. The reason why I would like to make a small contribution to this debate tonight is that I regard these changes that have been made to the old wheat stabilisation marketing scheme as the most substantial and progressive changes that have been made since the stabilisation scheme was established in 1939. I believe in the market forces principle and, for that reason, I strongly support these Bills. These Bills take the wheat marketing system towards that end. 
I remind honourable senators that the Industries Assistance Commission brought down a report on 7 July 1978 which dealt with the stabilisation scheme of wheat marketing. It made five major points and recommendations. The first point it made was that in its opinion stabilisation does not stabilise growers' income. There are factors like the weather, pests and diseases that have a far greater effect on the income received by wheat growers than does the stabilised price. The second point made by the Industries Assistance Commission was that the previous system ties up several hundreds of millions of dollars of Government funds and, of course, in many cases, wheat growers' funds. 
The third point- this is one of its recommendations- is that the price support scheme should only be a price subsidy and not an equalisation scheme. The IAC regarded pot holing as the limit to the amount of support that should be given to wheat growers. It very strongly suggested that somehow or other the price received by growers should reflect very strongly world prices. The fourth point was that private traders should be able to operate on the local market and that there should be no fixed local price. The fifth point is that the pooled freight and storage costs should be discontinued so that the farmers who live closest to the ports or in the most advantageous areas should get some benefit as against those who live further away. 
Naturally, this report has earned itself storms of protests from wheat growers. It is a fact of life that, if a particular commodity is selling well, the growers do not want to interfere with that marketing system. They tend to equate marketing schemes with prices received, whereas I personally believe that they have very little to do with each other. After very protracted negotiations between the Government, the Australian Wheat  Growers  Federation, and other industry representatives, we have these Bills before us tonight. 
There are far too many changes to the Bills to list all of them. I would be here for a long time if I did so. But, to summarise the main changes, firstly, there is the abolition of the stabilised price scheme and the replacement of a flexible guaranteed price which represents 95 per cent of a three-year average. That is the two previous years plus an estimate of the current year's export price. That price is subject to the limits of a 1 5 per cent movement each year. In this way, prices will partly represent any changes in world markets. I point out to the Senate that under previous stabilisation schemes, the price received by growers for wheat did not represent market prices and in the early 1979s we had to impose quotas on the production of wheat. For several years before that the indications were- and everybody knew- that the world was heading towards an oversupply of wheat. When the world situation changed a few years later and the world wanted more wheat, the growers did not react to that increased demand because of the stabilised price. 
The second point and second substantial change is that quite new financial arrangements are being negotiated. That will mean that the growers will receive a much earlier payment than they received in the past. That will be done basically through the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank, as before. The Government has assured that Australian Wheat Board that if, because of the Government's monetary policies, the Wheat Board is forced to borrow from outside sources, no interest penalty will be imposed. 
The third major point is the fairly substantial changes made to the domestic market arrangements, which at least go part of the way towards satisfying the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations. Those changes recognise that stock feed, industrial wheat and wheat used for human consumption have different values. In many cases what is regarded by the flour trade- the bread-making trade- as an inferior wheat is of very high value to other people.  Mr President,  you have an intimate knowledge of that industry. The price is set by a formula based partly on an indexed cost of production. It, similar to the export price, is subject to a limitation of change from year to year. In this case it is limited to a 20 per cent change from year to year. 
The wheat industry is one of the great industries of Australia. It earns this country a gross amount of about $2 billion and about a onetenth of that is used for home consumption. We talk about restructuring industry.  Mr Lionel  Bowen, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the other place, and  Senator Walsh  have had quite a bit to say fairly recently in the Press about restructuring and tariffs. I wish that they would resolve their differences. I am afraid that I do not always agree with  Senator Walsh's  attitudes, but in this case I do. I certainly disagree entirely with  Mr Bowen  's attitude. There is a huge investment in the wheat industry in Australia. When they talk about restructuring, particularly of the highly protected industries in Australia, they are really playing with the word because the wheat industry has gone through a major restructuring in the last few years. 
There has been a temendous reduction in the number of people employed on wheat farms. There has been a huge increase in investment in machinery and in all the size of the machinery and that has caused a great deal of disruption in many country towns. According to the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  the average investment on a wheat farm is about $217,000. Because there are about 186,000 wheat growers in Australia, that represents a total investment of something like $40 billion which, as I said, is an enormous business. The returns to the growers are fluctuating, very variable and in most cases very small but, thanks to this Government's policy of introducing income equalisation deposits and tax averaging, at least the growers have a chance of keeping a much larger percentage of that income than they kept before. I strongly support the Bills. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I asked the Minister a question early this week following some information recently disclosed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which showed that vegetable oil could be a more economic alternative fuel than ethanol or grain alcohol. Because of primary producer interest in this matter I ask whether the Minister has any more information regarding excise and other taxation policies on vegetable oil used as a fuel. 
