I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the decision of the High Court invalidating the States receipts tax, will the Minister inform the Senate of the position of those people who have paid the tax? I further ask: Is it a fact that those who have paid the tax under protest have a clear right of recovery? Does the Government intend to take any steps to assist in this recovery? 
I support the views expressed by my colleagues  Senator Drury, Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Bishop.  I am pleased to see that at least one South Australian senator on the Government side agrees 100% with the contentions that we placed before the Senate in defence of our State of South Australia. Even though  Senator Laucke  may not bring himself to actually vote against his Government when the Australian Labor Party amendment is voted on the views that he put before the Senate tonight have left no doubt in our minds that as far as he is concerned the viewpoints expressed by  Senator Drury, Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Bishop  in this chamber tonight have substance and validity. 
Over the years I have heard some extraordinary things said about Chowilla. I am one of those who was here when the late  Sir William  Spooner introduced the original Bill dealing with Chowilla into the 
Senate. I remember the remarks he made, the eulogy that he delivered on the Bill and the enthusiastic response that it received from those on both sides of the chamber. One would have thought that once this solemn agreement - a legal agreement which had both moral and legal overtones inherent in it  -  had been entered into the only decent thing that could have been done would have been to proceed with the construction of the dam and give South Australia something to which it was justifiably entitled. Over the years all kinds of explanations were given for the repudiation of the Agreement that took place. 1 remember vividly when the skids were first placed under Chowilla. It is no good any member of the Government trying to contradict this statement because the Senate Hansards will prove this fact conclusively. 
The first argument brought forward was the matter of cost. The Government said that in the 5 years that had elapsed since the Bill was passed it was clear that the dam would cost some millions of dollars more than was proposed originally. Because of that the Government thought that another look at the proposal ought to be taken. When criticism was levelled at those who advanced that theory, another convenient theory was brought forward. That was salinity. That superseded cost.  Senator Laucke  will remember this as clearly as I do. That superseded cost for some time.  Senator Scott  also will remember this. He took an active part in debates on this matter.  His  speeches on the matter enlivened the Senate somewhat. Salinity was the theme of the speeches on the second occasion that the proposal was deferred. When the River Murray Commission clearly established that the salinity level, if the Chowilla project were proceeded with, would be less in the Murray than if the project were not proceeded with and less than if the dam at Dartmouth were proceeded with, the tune was changed back again to cost. After that the Government thought that it had better find another reason because neither of the two reasons that it had given to date satisfied the people of South Australia. 
The Government called in the computer, as  Senator Ridley  said. It thought that the first two propositions that it put forward did not satisfy the people of South Australia. Quite frankly, those propositions did not satisfy them because the people of South Australia in general and the people who understand the' Murray in particular knew that the Government's excuses for not proceeding on the basis of cost and of salinity were phoney reasons. The computer was called into the fight, lt came up with some very convenient answers for the Government. 
Exactly. 
The Government came up with this magical figure, as  Senator Ridley  informs me, of 900 cusecs passing Mildura. Everybody knows that the Victorians are not motivated by self-interest and that they desperately want South Australia to have a dam at Chowilla, lt seems that the South Australian Liberal senators are in strange company tonight when they join with the Victorians in abandoning a project in their own State which ought to be proceeded with. The Victorians will give them their wholehearted co-operation and assistance. 
Yes. They do not want the South Australian people to have the Chowilla Dam because they want a dam at Dartmouth. The Victorians, I suppose motivated by their own State rights and their own State requirements, are acting in what they consider is the proper way to defend the rights of their own State. I have no quarrel with that. 
1 do quarrel with South Australian senators such as  Senator Young  who are prepared to join the Victorians in protecting the interests of ihe Victorian Government and of the Victorian people to the detriment of the interests of the people of their own State. This has been brought about by the unholy alliance that we have seen in the Senate tonight. Self-interest comes into the matter of the 900 cusecs that must flow past Mildura. 
Any benefit to South Australia is furthest from the minds of those who want this flow going over the lock at Mildura. They say that the continuance of this flow is needed to reduce the salinity in their part of the river. They are not concerned that the salinity at Waikerie is exactly twice the salinity at Mildura. They do not want us to have a dam at Chowilla so that we can flush the river in order to provide pure water for the people further down the river. They want to dilute Chowilla with the slugs of salt that come down their feeder streams in Victoria. They have done nothing to alleviate the position. They want the best of all worlds. At the same time, they want to deprive South Australia of something that was given to it by a solemn covenant in which this Government took part and to which it signed its name. 
I deal now with the alleged benefit of 1.5 million acre feet which the Dartmouth Dam is supposed to give South Australia. I use the word 'supposed' advisedly. In the first instance, it will be 1981 at least before any water is released from Dartmouth and reaches South Australia if the scheme is proceeded with tomorrow. I make it quite clear that 11 years at least must elapse before South Australia will get any guarantee of any extra water if the Dartmouth proposal is proceeded with. But does the Dartmouth proposal give South Australia any extra water? 
That is right. It gives us the 900 cusecs that must run past Mildura. If the Victorian people are to be believed, they want to ensure that the 900 cusecs flow past Mildura in all circumstances. The people of South Australia are concerned about what will happen to the alleged 1.5 million acre feet, which we are supposed to secure from this great Dartmouth scheme, in extraordinary circumstances of river flow. The answer of course is perfectly clear and simple. We will not get the 1.5 million acre feet. If there is greater development along the Victorian reaches of the Murray, if more and more orchards are planted, if more and more businesses are established and if more and more water is drawn from the Murray, what guarantee have we that, by the time the Dartmouth Dam is completed and water is released from it in the year 1981, the 1.5 million acre feet will be there for South Australia? We in South Australia do not want a pie in the sky. We do not want something in the distant and very obscure future. The people of South Australia in general and the inhabitants of the river districts in particular want some immediate undertaking given that South Australia will be able to secure a water storage that will protect its interests and not a water storage that will protect the interests of the other States. We do not want the butt end of the water. That is what the Dartmouth agreement will mean if it is proceeded with without the Chowilla Dam being proceeded with at the same time. 
I reiterate what my colleagues on this side of the House have said: We are not adopting a dog in the manger attitude on this matter. I remind the Senate that South Australia is the aggrieved party. We ought not to be pleading in the Senate for justice. Justice has been denied to the people of South Australia - justice that was rightly theirs. So we are not here only to plead the cause of South Australia. We are arguing in the first instance that agreements which have been solemnly entered into should be abided by. In the second instance we are saying that in the driest State in the driest continent on earth we want an immediate guarantee that our future water supplies will be conserved. Reference has been made to an extra 11 million acre feet that we will allegedly receive in the dim and distant future when a dam is completed at Dartmouth. 
 Senator Ridley  quite rightly corrects me that we are to receive an extra  i  million feet annually in the distant future when the Dartmouth Dam becomes a reality. I remind honourable senators that in normal years about 8i million acre feet of water flows into the sea in South Australia. It is wasted because we do not have the storages to conserve it. I again sound a warning. Anybody who understands the river districts of South Australia as do  Senator Laucke  and some honourable senators on this side of the chamber knows that unless we get a water storage facility in South Australia which will flush the River Murray, the orchards below Kingston in South Australia ultimately will all die. There is no question about that. 
That is not doing much for the orchards at Waikerie ai the moment. The orchards there are in peril because of the salt content of the River Murray in that area at present. The honourable senator knows that as well as I do. He must know that the building of a dam at Dartmouth will not solve the problem of the people at Waikerie or the problems of people in other parts of the Upper Murray, lt will not preserve the orchards of people who have sunk their life savings into fruit settlements along the lower pans of the Upper Murray. Surely any man who has the interests of his own State at heart, any man who fears for the future of South Australia, appreciates that the rights of South Australia should be preserved in this matter. He must recognise the danger that exists in leaving any longer the question of the construction of a dam in South Australia in the upper reaches of the River Murray. 
Argue that the construction of a dam at Dartmouth is valid if you will, and I will not cavil at that proposition. Build a dam at Dartmouth if you must, but lo have it at the expense of a dam at Chowilla is one of the most disgraceful episodes in the political history of this country, lt is all very well for somebody with his tongue in his cheek to speak as  Mr Hall  has done in South Australia in trying to fool the people there with his plausible line. He has said that the building of a dam at Dartmouth will not prevent the people of South Australia eventually from getting a dam at Chowilla. If the Agreement that has been tabled in the Senate is read carefully and closely it shows quite conclusively that once it is signed and sealed it is goodbye to a dam at Chowilla. There is no possibility that we can get a dam at Chowilla in the future once the Agreement is signed, lt is now or never for South Australia. All the sophistry that can be brought to bear and all the spurious arguments that can be put forward mean nothing against the background of the contents of the Agreement and the effect it will have. 1 will not be spending much more time in the Senate because my retirement is approaching. I want to go on record as saying that in the years that the proposal for a dam al Chowilla has received attention in the Senate, my advocacy of that proposition has never wavered. I hope to leave the Senate arguing still, as I have argued in the past, for that proposal. I am in distinguished company in pleading the cause of South Australia in this matter. I am, of course, in the company of  Sir Thomas  Playford, former Liberal Premier of South Australia, who once was quoted so often in this chamber by honourable senators opposite who now wish to forget his statements. They will nol quote him now at any price because he, like myself, believes that the interests of South Australia can be preserved by building a dam at Chowilla. 
I do not wish to traverse the ground that has already been covered by my colleagues on this side of. the chamber. The spurious arguments that have been advanced in favour of construction of a dam at Dartmouth and about the benefits to be gained by South Australia as a result are utter nonsense that will be repudiated by the people of South Australia. 
; I did not want to intrude again into this debate because the Australian Labor Party does not want to debate ihe question to the point of exhaustion. Bui I am concerned about statements that were made by  Senator Young  today and by  Senator Cotton  last night, which would lead people to believe that  Mr Dunstan,  the former Labor Premier of South Australia, had taken action which in some way or other prejudiced the completion or future of the Chowilla Dam. If honourable senators opposite believe that Dartmouth is ihe best proposition, I have no objection to their putting their views as strongly as they wish. They are entitled to do that, but I do not think that they are entitled to tell half truths and to distort matters that have occurred in South Australia, and lo cast unjust and untrue reflections upon ihe former Labor Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  and the Party which he led in Government. 
For the purpose of having it incorporated in Hansard. 1 want to read a statement by  Mr Dunstan  which I think adequately answers the distorted statements made by Senators Young and Cotton, when they referred to  Mr Dunstan's  attitude regarding the Chowilla Dam.  Mr Dunstan  made this public statement, which cannot be refuted: 
Labor has been falsely accused by Government members- 
And he was referring, of course, to Federal and State members of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party - 
. of stopping Chowilla in 1967. In fact it was the other parties to the Commission that stopped Chowilla and ordered the studies. In March 1968, when both the Labor Government and the LCL Opposition agreed that Chowilla should be built we instructed our Commissioner to vote against the deferment of Chowilla so as lo create a dispute allowing arbitration to occur. The LCL Government- 
That is the State Government of South Australia - 
. revoked thai instruction immediately on taking office, thereby assuring that our rights to arbitration were nullified.  lt was necessary to record in Hansard what  Mr Dunstan  said. 
There is no difference in the intent or in the meaning of the statement that he made. What he said was a true assessment and a true statement of the position. In view of the statements made last night by  Senator Cotton  and in view of the statements made today by  Senator Young,  1 thought it necessary lo have recorded in Hansard what  Mr Dunstan  said in order that the exact position as far as Chowilla is concerned might be portrayed. 1 was rather intrigued by  Senator Young's  remarkable statement that the Labor Party in South Australia had said that it was essential that both dams be constructed. We have never said that it was essential that both dams be constructed. The Labor Party said that it was essential to the interests of South Australia that Chowilla be constructed. Dartmouth was forced upon us. We did not select it. We said that if the people of Victoria and New South Wales were of the opinion that their interests could be served only by the construction of Dartmouth we had no objection to that proceeding if some consideration were given to the construction of bo h dams at the same time. 

 Senator Young said that we shifted our ground on the issue. We did not shift our ground. We said that we were prepared to recognise the rights and requirements of other States but that they should recognise South Australia's rights. We have never changed our stand. It is utter nonsense to suggest that, because we said we had no objection to the construction of Dartmouth at the same time as Chowilla, we are insisting that the 2 are necessary for the good of South Australia. We have never said that.  Senator Young  knows that we have never said that.  Senator Young  said that ihe Labor Party and other organisations had undermined in some way the integrity of the experts who gave advice. 1 recall very well the late  Sir William  Spooner, when introducing a Bill to adopt the original Chowilla Agreement, saying in unmistakable terms that the experts had said that Chowilla was completely feasible. We listened to the experts then. We accepted the advice of the experts then. 
 Honourable senators opposite are Ihe ones who undermined the opinion of experts because they refuted what was said in 1963. 
They inferred it by the very attitude that they took. 
Does the honourable senator admit that Chowilla is completely feasible? 
 This is new ground. In the last 6 months the people of South Australia have been told by some of  Senator Young's  Party compatriots thai it is not feasible. 
 I am not saying what the honourable senator said. I am saying what members of his Party said. They said that Chowilla was dead. They called it Playford's folly'.  Senator Young  talked about undermining the integrity of experts and people with considerable experience in this field.  His  action and actions of members of his Parly undermined the credibility of one of the greatest leaders South Australia ever had -  Sir Thomas  Playford. Honourable Senators opposite undermined the credibility of the people who said that 
Chowilla was feasible. Honourable senators opposite said that Chowilla is not feasible now. Then they said that we shifted our ground and that we undermined the credibility of experts. We did nothing of the sort. By this amendment we ask that further studies in connection with the 2 dams be undertaken. We suggest that the studies should be in respect of the feasibility and the. practicability of financial and other measures. 
As  Senator Ridley  reminds me,  Senator Buttfield  claimed that these studies had been made already. If they have been made, why have not the results been made public? If the results were made public it could well be that the Labor Party in South Australia might accept them. The studies having been made and the results not having been presented leaves in our minds the question: Why have not the results been presented? The only points I wanted to make were those 3 points which I considered were vital to the debate. If the debate is to proceed - and I do not want to delay a vote on it - it should proceed on the basis of facts and not on the basis of fantasies. Our views on the matter are strong. K we think that the interests of our State can be served best by abandoning Chowilla or by constructing it, we should be honest and say what our views are. We should not make statements which are half truths and which are not consistent with the real issue. Having made those points, I hope that it will not be necessary for me to speak again on the issue. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of the High Court's decision invalidating the States' receipt taxes, can the Treasurer inform the Senate of the position of those who have paid the tax. 
Is .it a fact that those persons who paid the tax under protest have a clear right of recovery. 
Does the Government intend to take any steps to facilitate any such recovery. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Government's position wilh regard to receipts duty was explained in my Second Reading Speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill 1970. As requested by the States, the proposed Commonwealth legislation, which applies only to business receipts, will have retrospective application to 18th November 1969. There are special provisions in the proposed legislation relating to  a  transitional period commencing on 18th November 1969 and ending on a date to be proclaimed. The general effect of these special provisions is that liability to receipts duty on receipts during the transitional period will be determined by reference to the receipts duties laws of the States in force, whether validly or invalidly, during that period. As the proposed Commonwealth legislation does not relate to the period prior to 18th November 1969, f am not in a position to comment on any questions arising in respect of that prior period. 
Before I get on to the issues of the Budget 1 want to compliment my colleague from South Australia,  Senator Donald  Cameron, who tonight made his first speech on the Budget as a senator in this 
Parliament. I think that all honourable senators, irrespective of their partisanship, would agree that quite a good deal of thought and research had been gone into by  Senator Donald  Cameron in preparing his speech. 
Having said that, I wish to refer very briefly to an interjection which was made by  Senator Greenwood  and a statement made by  Senator Maunsell  during  Senator Maunsell's  speech on the Budget.  Senator Greenwood  said by way of interjection that there was no need to worry as the Australian Labor Party would never be in government. It is quite obvious that  Senator Greenwood  has a very short memory because a matter of 500 or 600 votes in a few seats - no more than  A  - throughout Australia on the occasion of the last House of Representatives election determined whether the Labor Party would govern in its own right or the coalition would be returned. So it is utter nonsense for people to make predictions of that character. Time has the habit of proving them wrong. 

 Senator Maunsell made what I consider to be a quite extraordinary statement when he described as 'the rabble outside' those people who have expressed dissatisfaction, and in some quarters disgust, with this Budget. The only construction one can put on his statement is that every person, organisation or group that criticised the Budget belonged to some rabble outside. This is a statement which cannot be supported by fact. It is an intemperate statement. If I may say so,  Sir, it  is a stupid statement. Who are the people outside who constitute the so-called rabble? The Press has criticised the Budget in most stringent terms. The pensioner associations have criticised the Budget. The wine growers of Australia have criticised the Budget. Organisations with which  Senator Maunsell  is very closely associated have criticised the Budget in most stringent terms. 1 refer, of course, to primary producer organisations, which, although massive amounts of money have been directed towards some sectors of primary industry, have not been satisfied with the Budget. 
Finally, 1 want to remind  Senator Maunsell  that when he referred to the rabble outside which has criticised the Budget- 
The honourable senator did say that. He referred to those people and organisations who said that this Budget was wrong and did not meet the needs of the community. He said that the rabble outside was criticising it. That is what the honourable senator said and that is what will appear in Hansard. 1 remind the honourable senator that, in addition to the organisations I have enumerated which have rightly exercised their proper function in this community of criticising something with which they do not agree, the Young Liberals Association of South Australia, an organisation which supports the Government, has criticised the Budget. Is the honourable senator suggesting that this organisation belongs to some rabble outside? 
The honourable senator did not say that. 
The honourable senator did not say that.  Senator Maunsell  should remember that this chamber does not take note of what he meant but what he said. All honourable senators, regardless of what we may say in this chamber in defence of our arguments and beliefs, have to accept responsibility not for what we meant to say but what we did say. In the number of years 1 have been a senator in this chamber I have always been prepared to accept responsibility for what I have said. 1 think I have demonstrated that those who have criticised the Budget outside are by no means a rabble but are a very wide and responsible cross-section of the Australian community. I wholeheartedly support the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  in which the Australian Labor Party criticises the Budget. 
There are some specific things about the Budget with which I wish to deal in my contribution to this debate tonight, but before I get on to them I shall deal with the Budget in general terms. I begin by referring to part of the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  The Treasurer said, among other things, that the Government sought to make reductions in per sonal income taxation, especially on lower and middle income earners, estimated to have a value to the taxpayers concerned of $289m in a full financial year and $228m in 1970-71. The Treasurer went on to say:   . . we thereby make good - indeed more tbar make good - our undertaking to give substantia! income tax relief to this large body of people. 
It is on this point that I take issue with the Treasurer. I say that the Government has not made good - it certainly has not more than made good - its promise to the Australian people that it would substantially reduce the taxation burden on the lower and middle income groups. I submit to the Senate that the main beneficiaries of the remission of $289m in a full year to which the Treasurer referred will be taxpayers in the $4,000 to $10,000 income group. There is no need for me to remind the Senate that the bulk of the wage earners in Australia are not in that bracket, lt is true, of course, that up to a certain figure, as stated in the Treasurer's Budget Speech, a 10 per cent remission of personal income tax is being implemented but one does not need to be a mathematician or a Euclid to arrive at the conclusion that a person on $8,000 to $12,000 per annum must of necessity benefit much more from any income tax relief than the average man in the street who earns somewhere in the vicinity of $3,000 per annum. Therefore, the people who will benefit most are those who have the most. The ordinary man in the street - the ordinary wage earner - will not benefit as the Government promised in its policy speech before the last general election. 
Balanced against these modest tax remissions - and I mean modest in the sense of their benefit to the ordinary man in the street - we find that an excise has been imposed on wine, that increased excises have been imposed on cigarettes and cigars and that increased telephone and postal charges have been imposed. As a result of the increased postal charges alone the Government will reap $53m of the $289m reduction it has made in personal income taxation. In a full year the excise imposed on wine will net the a further $15.2m. The  2i  per cent increase in sales tax on consumer goods which were previously in the 25 per cent class is another slug on the ordinary man in the street. Everybody knows the range of goods in this category. It includes motor cars, radios, television sets and a host of other consumer goods which are considered everyday necessities of life to the ordinary person in the community. The increased sales tax will net the Government a further $29m in a full year. The increased company tax will considerably affect the price structure. The increase in excise on petroleum products will account for another $79m in a full year from the pockets of the ordinary people in the community. When one takes all these factors into consideration one can see the confidence trick which has been played upon the taxpayers of Australia. On the one hand the Government has given them $289m by way of reductions in personal income tax; but on the other hand, when all the hidden and indirect as well as direct taxes which are contained in the Budget, cheek by jowl with this remission in personal income tax, are taken into account, I regret to say that the result to the ordinary man in the street is nothing. The Treasurer's airy statement that the Government has made more than good its promise to the Australian community before the last general election means nothing. 
As this is the last speech I will make on a Budget I wish to refer to one of the things that have exercised my mind since 1 have been a senator - the injustices that exist in the field of social services. Honourable senators will recall that from time to time in succeeding debates on the Budget I have referred to existing anomalies in the field of social services. I have always believed, together with my colleagues on this side of the chamber, that the real victims of inflation are the pensioners who have no means other than their pension, and people on fixed incomes. T have in mind people receiving superannuation payments to contribute for which they decreased their standard of living during the years of their employment. I have raised these issues in the Senate many times. Perhaps I am getting a little sick of raising them. About 15 years have elapsed since 1 first drew the attention of the Senate to these anomalies and they have not yet been corrected. I think it stands to the abounding disgrace of the Government that it has permitted them to continue for so long. 
One utterly indefensible feature of the social service legislation is that of the benefits paid to a pensioner with a nonpensioner wife. One can readily understand the difficulties that confront such people. In most cases in industry today an employee who reaches the age of 65 year? is considered to be unemployable and becomes a pensioner. This is the trend, whether we like it or not. His wife may be in her early or middle 50s. With the proposed increase the husband becomes eligible for a weekly pension of $15.50. The Government conveniently assumes that his wife, although she is over the age of 50 years, in some mysterious way will be able to find employment in this highly competitive world of today. It is assumed that she can augment the family income by finding a job. 
From time to time I act as an intermediary between people seeking work and the Department of Labour and National Service. I can assure the Government that a woman over the age of 50 years without any qualifications has no hope of securing a job in industry today. 
Thai is n reasonable question. We will come to that presently. I know that honourable senators on both sides of the chamber are approached from time to time by people under the age of 50 years who are seeking employment. Because these people, both male and female, have no particular skills, in many instances it is impossible for the Department of Labour and National Service to find them a position. They are forced to exist on the not too generous unemployment benefit payments which the Government will hand out to them after a period of unemployment. It is perfectly clear that it is utterly impossible for a woman of 55 years without skills to find employment.  Senator Georges  has rightly raised the question of why she should be required to seek a job, even if the field of employment was open to her. 
This Government coldly, callously and calculatingly says: 'If she cannot find a job, it is just too bad. We say that she and her husband can exist on the miserable pittance of SI 5.50 a week.' Can any honourable senator opposite defend that situation? Can any Government supporter rationalise it or explain to me its justification? 1 would be very interested to hear even one honourable senator opposite explain to me how that situation can be defended. If no Government supporter can explain how the situation can be defended I would invite any one of them to express an opinion on the matter. Let us get somebody talking about it besides myself. 
I turn now to touch on the increase of 50c a week in pensions. 1 have mentioned that pensioners are the defenceless section of our society. In many cases they have no help or means other than the pension. The Government has suggested in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer that they are to receive an increase of 50c a week. I suggest that they are not receiving any increase at al). Again I invite any Government supporter to rationalise the fact that the cost of living for pensioners has increased by more than 50c a week in the last 12 months. Again. I would be interested to hear any methods that could be employed to defend that situation. 
The pensioners are not to receive an increase which would permit them to maintain even the situation that existed 12 months ago. One can readily understand the dismay and disgust that swept through pensioner associations in this country when they heard of the meagre increase to be handed down in what the Treasurer has called a holding Budget. I wish to refer also to the parlous position of elderly retired people on superannuation. They are another forgotten section of the community The value of their superannuation has been eroded by the galloping inflation in the community. Like the pensioners, they have no court of appeal. They cannot go to the Arbitration Commission and they cannot protest. They have no bargaining power to use to induce the Government or the community to assist them in their cause. They have to stand helplessly by and watch inflation accumulate year by year while the value of their superannuation is diminished with each succeeding year of increased inflation. I do not think it is using extravagant language to say that this sort of situation will inevitably result in the sinking below the poverty line of about 60 per cent of pensioners and people on superannuation unless something drastic is done. I believe that many of them have already sunk below that line. 
I want to refer briefly to Vietnam. Vietnam is very fleetingly mentioned in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer. I heard with approval and pleasure that one Australian infantry battalion is to be withdrawn from Vietnam. I do not wish to bring controversy into this situation but I must say that I believe the Government has been less than frank with the Australian people about its intentions to phase our forces out of the Vietnam war. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that the  President  of the United States of America has been much more specific about the decision to withdraw American troops from Vietnam. The Australian Government should have been much more frank, not only with the people but also with this Parliament, about its intentions in regard to Vietnam. This country has been grievously divided by our participation in what I would describe as the senseless war in Vietnam. I would go further and say that it is an inhuman war. For that matter, all war is inhuman. 
No country can  successfully  fight a war when the people are so deeply divided, as they are in this country at present. I can understand the dilemma in which the Government now finds itself because of its intrusion into the war in Vietnam. It must either stick with the situation or admit that it has made a mistake. I was in the United States at the end of 1968 and saw the massive dissent which produced a change in the American Government's attitude to that country's presence in Vietnam. Whilst I do not want to do  President  Lyndon Johnson an injustice, I believe that it was not a personal decision to de-escalate and withdraw as the Americans are doing now in Vietnam. I think the decision was forced upon him because of the massive discontent, dissent and hostility of the people to America's participation in Vietnam. 
During my visit to the United States I was able to observe at first hand how deeply this dissent and division of opinion had eroded the confidence and moral fibre of the American community. I know that we hold differing opinions on the matter of Vietnam. We must always hold differing opinions on the great issues of the day. I saw enough in the United States in 1968 to convince me that the American people, as a nation, were against their Government's participation in this senseless war. What- ever one may say about demonstrations - my friend  Senator Webster  interjected tonight when  Senator Cameron  was speaking about the demonstration organised by the Australian Council of Trade Unions in protest against the Budget - there is no doubt that people are entitled to protest. 1 took part in a protest demonstration in Adelaide on behalf of the rural community which  Senator Webster  represents in this chamber. 
Well, senator, you said it, not I. 1 was happy to take part in that demonstration because I believe that the people concerned had cause to demonstrate. There was a sense of justice in what they did. I do not believe in condemning one demonstration and approving another. One must be consistent about these things. In case anyone should ask me what 1 think about breaking the laws of the country when I say that I approve demonstrations, let. me point out that I mean that I approve demonstrations which are conducted within the laws of the country. I dissociate myself from any demonstration which deliberately and consciously breaks the laws of the country. Nevertheless, if it had not been for the massive demonstrations of dissent in the United States and, to a lesser degree in Australia, in regard to our participation in Vietnam we would not be as far advanced in the matter of withdrawal as we are at present, so do not let us underestimate the value of dissent and of demonstrations of dissent. At the same time, do not let us confuse violence with legitimate hostility to a move which people believe to be wrong. 
It gives me no pleasure that this country is so grievously divided on the question of our participation in Vietnam, lt should be a lesson to us, as it has been a lesson to the Government of the United States, that no country can fight a war unless its people genuinely believe in the cause. If the people are not convinced of the cause then the cause itself must fail, and we failed in Vietnam. Irrespective of how history records this matter the fact will remain that our withdrawal from Vietnam will be an admission that we should never have been there in the first place. 
I want to refer briefly to grants to the States and the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. It is no secret that at the last Premiers Conference the Premier of South Australia was noi happy with the deal that he received from the Commonwealth Government. He suggested - this was suggested also by the Press at the time - that South Australia bad received in the financial sense something in the nature of a raw deal from the Commonwealth. I am informed, although I do not have the complete details on this matter, that the Commonwealth Grants Commission has confirmed the fact that South Australia received a raw deal and, while I am not completely sure of the amount, I believe that the Commission has recommended that a substantial amount be granted to South Australia because of the special circumstances which exist in our State, circumstances which  Mr Dunstan  outlined very clearly to the Commonwealth Government at the Premiers Conference some months ago. [t is gratifying, at least to the people of South Australia, to know that even though they cannot get justice from the Commonwealth Government the Grants Commission has seen the justice of their cause. I hope that my friend  Senator Bishop  will enlarge upon this matter when he makes his contribution to the Budget debate. 
Now let me refer to the United Nations. I had the very great privilege of representing this Parliament as an observer at the United Nations in late 1968. This is one of the greatest experiences that any member of Parliament can have. I say with a sense of sorrow that after spending some 21 months in New York and attending the United Nations practically every day 1 came away with a sense of futility - perhaps a sense of great foreboding, would be a better way to put it - for the future of that great body. When the United Nations was constituted and built on the ashes of the old League of Nations, which was the hope of the people of that day, we all hoped that it would be a tremendous force for world peace, that it would be a council where men representing the various countries of the world could go and discuss dispassionately and in a friendly way the great problems of the time. I regret to say that the United Nations, as I saw it in 1968, was not functioning along those lines. I doubt whether it is today. 
There was complete polarisation of thought. On the one hand there was the Western bloc and on the other hand there was the Communist world. Between them was a gulf as wide as the Grand Canyon. It seemed to me that the United Nations, instead of being used as a forum to bring people together to promote the cause of peace, was being used as a springboard of invective and hate, a place where every representative of every country denounced the countries to which he was opposed and the people with whose views he disagreed. I believe in the future of the United Nations. I think that it is the only hope of mankind. From what I saw in 1968 1 am led to believe that unless there is a vast change in its structure, and an acceptance on the part of those who constitute it of the fact that its function is not to divide but to unite, the United Nations could well meet the same fate as did the old League of Nations which failed to give expression to the hopes of the people of that day. 
Of course I do. 
I agree. I think that the majority of the nations represented at the United Nations believe that China should be represented. One of the follies of our time, and one of the things that I had in mind when I referred to the polarisation of ideas which exists in the United Nations, is that people are not considering the inclusion of Red China on the basis of reason and logic. They are considering it on the basis of whether it is we or they. I saw evidence of polarisation, evidence of the fact that on one side it was the goodies and on the other side it was the baddies and that whatever one side said the other side disagreed with as a matter of course. This must of necessity destroy the United Nations unless some means are found of changing the structure of the Organisation and the ideas of the people there. 
Without in any way criticising either of the two great power blocs of the world let me say that I believe that any member of the Senate who saw, as I did, the way in which the United Nations operated would be unhappy with what was happening and would hope that those who represent the great nations of the world would come much closer together than they are at present. I think it would be true to say that I heard only about 5 reasoned speeches in the General Assembly in the whole of the time I was there. The other speeches were concerned with either the Western world denouncing the Communist bloc or the Communist bloc in turn denouncing the Western world. In addition there were meetings of groups to determine what 'our' point of view will be as against 'their' point of view. There seemed to be nobody in the middle trying to draw the contending factions together. This seems to me to be a sorry situation and one that augurs ill for the future of this great world body. I believe that we all should be directing our thoughts to ways and means which, instead of polarising the thoughts and aspirations of peoples, will bring them together and unite them. 
I have spoken for about half an hour. I have spoken for a little longer than I intended. I have touched on those matters in the field of social services which I consider not only ought to be corrected but demand to be corrected. As this will be my last speech in a Budget debate, I hope that other senators on this side of the chamber will join me in these protests and demand that whatever has not been corrected by this time next year be corrected. I have not dealt with all of the facets of the Budget. Quite frankly, I believe that it is not possible to do that in a speech of half an hour. There are other matters to which I would like to refer, such as injustices in the field of housing, particularly in the war service homes field. Perhaps I will touch upon that when the Estimates come before the chamber. 
All I want to say in concluding the last speech that I will make in a Budget debate in this chamber is that in the 17 years I have been here I have probably put a few thousand words into Hansard, and these may be some of the last few I will put into that long suffering document; but I hope that some of the things I have said, particularly on matters of injustice in this community, have been noted. After all, whatever our political views are, we should be united in at least one common cause; that is. to remove whatever basic injustices exist, particularly in the field of social welfare. I would hesitate to believe that any government would deliberately set out to create situations that would prejudice the position and living standards of the elderly people. So. I hope that the things I have said in this sphere will not fall on deaf ears as far as the Government is concerned. At least I will have the satisfaction of knowing that in the last speech I made in a Budget debate in this chamber 1 dealt with the raw issues, the basic issues, the issues that affect the ordinary people of this community. 
I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question on the matter referred to by  Senator Greenwood.  T ask: Is the Leader of the Government aware that nearly half the members of the United States Senate have called for exactly the same thing as the people organising the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not aware of that. T have some reservations about the statement made by  Senator Toohey. 
My question to the Leader of the Government concerns the discussions we had recently about the question of the Opposition co-operating with the Government in respect of the order of business in the Senate. Does the Minister not think it rather illogical that he should ask the Opposition to co-operate with the Government in respect of the order of business when the Prime Minister .refuses to disclose the proposed date of the Senate election? If I may be permitted to do so, I should like to point out that nobody will be surprised about the date of the election; it will be either late in November or some time next year. The only people who will be inconvenienced will be those of us in the Senate who are expected to co-operate with the Government in these circumstances, knowing that at any time we may be given 3 weeks' notice that an election is to be held. Legislation will be rushed through and the people of Australia will be inconvenienced because the matters which should be discussed by the Senate will not be given proper consideration. 
It is traditional and normal for the Prime Minister to announce when proposed elections are to be held and I do not see that the circumstances are any different on this occasion. This practice has continued for the whole time that elections have been held for the national Parliament. AH I would say to the honourable senator is that I am sure that the Prime Minister will announce the date of the Senate election at the appropriate time. 
 South Australia,  lt  is a matter that I took up with the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  by correspondence. 
I want to raise a matter under Division 310, subdivision 2, item 05. I refer to the case of the occupier of a war service home in Canterbury Avenue, Payneham, South Australia. 
South Australia, or Western Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the interior, ls the Minister aware of the unsatisfactory position with respect to lighting, parking and feeder bus services in the Kingston shopping area in the Australian Capital Territory? ls it a fact that some time ago some assurances were made concerning higher density development in Kingston, and if so. what progress has been achieved in this matter? 
As a lead up to my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, I draw attention to the fact that an attempt was made recently through the share market to take over a retail company in Adelaide trading under the name of Harris Scarfe Ltd. I ask: Has the Government given any consideration to the desirability or otherwise of the share market being used for the purpose of swallowing up companies that have been in existence for over half a century? Can he tell me whether the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange is considering such actions? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In the apportioning of grants to wool growers under the Commonwealth scheme to provide emergency financial assistance, did the Government take into account other business activities of the applicants, and income from those activities taken in conjunction with farm income? Why did the questionnaire call for the number of bales of wool sold when it seems that only the gross income from the sale was taken into account and the number of bales, it appears, had little significance? Does the Government consider it fair to exclude from the scheme a grower who sold 10 more bales from the same number of sheep in 1970 than in 1 969 but whose gross income remained almost the same? 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows the questions asked of him by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator McManus  concerning the economy. I noted the acceptance by the Leader of the Government of the proposition put forward by  Senator Murphy  that the Minister should ask the Treasurer to bring down a White Paper on the matter of investment. In addition to this, will the Minister ask the Treasurer to place before both Houses of Parliament a White Paper on the economy generally setting out the steps that are likely to be taken by the Government to combat inflation? 1 direct the attention of the Senate to the fact that rumours are rife that the Parliament will go into recess on 29th April. I think it would be almost criminal if we were to leave the national capital without the Parliament having had an opportunity to deal with one of the most serious problems of our time and to give its opinions on what should be done in relation to the inflationary trends in the economy of this country. 
I said that you had accepted his request. 
Before this clause is put to a vote I shall make a brief comment on it. It will be recalled that before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I interjected to the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  who in this chamber represents the Attorney- General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and who was then in charge of the Bill. I asked about the position of an innocent person who was caught up in an assembly in respect of this clause.  Senator Greenwood  did not give what I consider was a satisfactory explanation as to what would be the case in such circumstances. It is my contention that it would be quite possible for a person who had no connection whatever with the assembly to be caught up with it in some way or other quite innocently because he happened to be in the vicinity at the time. If that happens he is caught in the net of the circumstances which are set out in clause 21 (1.). For that reason I think that sub-clause ought to be opposed and not only by honourable senators on the Opposition side of the chamber. It ought to be opposed by honourable senators generally. It is my belief that this sub-clause does not fully protect a person who could quite innocently get caught up in these circumhappen because there have been such stances. Do not let us say that it could not instances galore hire and overseas. 
 Exactly. Quite recently there have been instances galore in Australia and overseas where people who had no connection whatever with the assembly and who did not want to take any part in it quite easily became caught in the net because they happened to be, in an unfortunate sense,in the vicinity of the assembly at the time. This situation is provided for in clause 21 (1.). I shall take an extreme example. Perhaps a person could be under the influence of liquor and as a result of this could inadvertently wander into such a situation. Without doubt such a person would find himself in a position from which it would be very difficult to extricate himself. I think it is a matter of simple logic that we should have another look at this proposition and ask whether some provision should be made for people who find themselves in circumstances which  Senator James  McClelland has mentioned. I support his remarks. 
