I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. 1 think all honourable senators will agree that Tasmania is a cold place and that Tasmanians also suffer extra expense for food because of shipping costs. I therefore ask the Minister for Social Services whether his Department will carry out an urgent survey of food costs in Tasmania compared with those in other States, and then take steps to lift the pension in Tasmania so that our elderly people and other pensioners will receive sufficient money to enable them to eat as well as others may in other areas of Australia. Secondly, due to the coldness of the State the cost of heating even a small living area, in which many pensioners are forced to live, is quite considerable and is an expense which many pensioners in other areas of Australia do not incur. Will the Minister also have his Department examine heating costs in the cold areas of Australia, and then make a Commonwealth heating allowance available to our pensioners and to any homes in which they may live? 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General whether the Postmaster-General will investigate the possible adjustment of radio and television licence fees for different areas of Australia and gear them to the number of programme sources that are available. For instance, in Tasmania most television viewers can receive only one or two programme sources and three or four radio sources. Yet they have to pay as much for their licences as people in other areas of Australia who may be able to choose from perhaps twice as many stations some of  which, particularly radio stations, operate from much longer periods. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it true that the recent repro.clamation and consequent reduction in size of the Cradle Mountain-Lake St Clair National Park has been at the instigation of the Federal Government so that an Omega base may be constructed in the Mersey-Forth area of Tasmania without its being in a national park? Has the Federal Government had any secret dealings with the Tasmanian Government in this regard? ls it true that Tasmania has been chosen as the site for the Omega base because the Federal Government considers that it has only one Tasmanian seat in the House of Representatives to lose whereas if Victoria, 
South Australia, or New South Wales were chosen the political effect would be much greater? 
I would presume, in deference to the honourable senator who is relatively new here, that the last part of his question was posed in a humorous vein. Judging by the reaction of Opposition senators, there must have been some humour in it. As to the question of substance, I would have thought that matters relating to the Omega base would have come within the ambit of administration of the Minister for National Development whom I do not represent in this chamber. However, I suggest that the honourable senator put his question on the notice paper and I shall seek an answer for him. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. In
              view of the large number of university graduates who cannot find suitable employment
              in their home countries of Canada and the United States of America and in view of the
              possibility of this trend developing here, will the Minister ensure that the entry of
              graduates into Australia from North America and other countries will not bc to the
              detriment of Tasmanian and other Australian graduates who have yet to qualify? If
              necessary, will the Government control the entry of such people? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts a question relating to the environment. In view of the waste of natural resources and the undoubted polluting effect of nonreturnable soft drink bottles and beer bottles, will the Minister consider legislating for a Commonwealth ban on such one way bottles? Will the Commonwealth insist that a sizeable deposit be charged on soft drink bottles and beer bottles so that they will be returned for refill and not thrown away? If Commonwealth legislation is not possible because it intrudes into the province of the States, will the Minister request that each State legislate in such a manner? 
I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that many commercial and charitable nursing homes for the aged are at a stage of financial collapse due to the cost of present nurses' salaries? 
Has the Government any immediate plans to help these homes which do so much for our elderly people and which may be forced to close unless such help is given? 
As I recall, I answered a question on this matter several weeks ago. It is a fact that because of significant awards made in relation to the staff of nursing homes a situation is emerging which affects the economics of nursing homes. This matter is currently before me and is one of the most important currently under examination within my Department. Further award variations are pending in some States and may make the situation even more difficult. There are 2 types of nursing home. Some nursing homes are run by voluntary organisations and others are run by private organisations or, to put it another way, are run for a profit. The problems of the 2 groups vary slightly. About 75 per cent of people in nursing homes are pensioners, as we understand that term. So it is a serious matter. Representations have been made to me and yesterday I had discussions with the Tasmanian Minister for Health in relation to problems arising in a particular area in Tasmania. I have the matter currently under examination for the consideration of the Government and I am treating it as very important. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware that about half the students in Canada who graduated from universities in May this year have been unable to find suitable employment and that university education in that country is becoming termed the 'great training robbery'? In view of what has happened in Canada and other Western countries, has the Government any plans to investigate opportunities for students now at university, or yet to commence university training in Australia, so that they will not be encouraged to study courses for degrees that may be useless to them? 
Following as it does on the earlier question addressed to me about unemployment, it is interesting to have a question which adverts to the circumstances in Canada. I feel bound to say that what happens in the Canadian scene is not necessarily applicable in Australia. I shall certainly have this question processed, but I have no doubt that people in the Department of Labour and National Service, who have a real concern in this matter, and people in the various universities throughout the Commonwealth, who have a responsibility in this area, would be conducting research and having regard to whether people should enter disciplines which will provide employment opportunities and to which particular students are suited. I think it would be almost axiomatic that they would be doing that sort of thing. However, since I am only acting for the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science 1 shall have the matter referred. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the recent re-proclaiming, and consequent reduction in size, of the Cradle MountainLake St Clair National Park been done at the instigation of the Federal Government to enable an Omega base to be established in the Mersey Forth area of Tasmania, without it being in a national park? 
Has the Government had dealings with the Tasmanian Government concerning an Omega base, -which have not been revealed to the Australian public? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. In view of the difficulty that some pensioners have in obtaining suitable board or lodging at a low cost, will the Minister state whether moneys received by a pensioner when he lets a room to another pensioner are to be included in means test calculations? If so, will he consider allowing exemption of these moneys so received? 
ls the Minister for Health aware that under the present system of most common fees some specialists can be paid $100 for as little as 20 minutes work? For instance, if I may state an example, an orthopaedic surgeon managing a chipped femur may simply look at an X-ray and have some other . person set the leg, so that the specialist's work is only in removing the plaster, which takes about 20 minutes. If the Minister is aware of such things, does he approve of them? If not,  has he given thought to modifying common fees to prevent such anomalies? 
The honourable senator has asked a question relating to the schedule of the Health Act which fixes specialist fees. He has given an example of a specialist's work and suggested that in terms of time little is involved. I presume that he is disregarding know-how or special qualifications. He has suggested that there may be anomalies in the fixation of specialist fees in various categories of specialty. I understand the question and I think we all grasp its significance. I think it is sufficient for me to say that at present I am interviewing various specialist groups who are expressing their views to me. Last week, while the Senate was not sitting, I gave over practically the whole of one day to interviewing, at their request, various specialist groups who had a view to express on these matters. For that reason I think it is fair comment for me to say in response to the honourable senator's question that I am aware of the problems as they have been expressed to me. Without in any way committing myself at this stage I am able to say that I am currently examining the views that are being expressed to me on this aspect. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware that it is the stated intention of the Tasmanian Education Department in 1972 to keep the number of teaching staff approximately 200 below the accepted minimum level required to maintain existing educational standards? In view of this stated intention will the Government consider making a special grant of  about SI. 2m to Tasmania specifically for the employment of teachers? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, concerns the price of petrol in Tasmania. No doubt, the Minister will know that petrol costs considerably more in Tasmania than in the other States, even more than in Perth. I ask the Minister whether his Department has given thought to reducing the excise on petrol that is sold in Tasmania so that Tasmanians are not at a disadvantage due to that expensive stretch of water known as Bass Strait. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that there is a strong trend away from the use of plastic bags as wrapping materials in the more environmental conscious countries such as West Germany and other countries in Western Europe? Is the Minister aware that Australia is allowing the importation of millions of plastic bags from places in the East such as Hong Kong and China? Is the Minister also aware that the imported bags are less expensive than locally produced paper bags which, of course, are not such a polluting factor? Finally, has the Minister any plans to reduce the number of plastic bags imported? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Is the Minister aware that the sudden lifting of interest rates on contracts involving the purchase of a house often can impose a severe burden on those who buy such houses? Will the Government consider exempting such contracts from any interest increases that may occur from time to time? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the importance of air transport to the people of Tasmania will the Government say whether it is prepared to reduce the duty on aviation fuel used by aircraft on runs between Tasmania and the northern States? If it is impossible to do that, due perhaps to certain provisions in the Constitution, will the Government consider making a special grant to Tasmania in lieu of such a reduction and of the moneys that are spent in the other States on railroads and roadways? 
This matter has been canvassed at the Department of the Treasury. While an answer to a question without notice is not the occasion on which to express an opinion on legal or constitutional issues, it does appear to me that the honourable senator's suggestion of a lower rate of duty on aviation fuel used on flights to and from Tasmania would constitute discrimination between the States on a law relating to taxation, lt would therefore be beyond the Commonwealth's powers. As to the second part of the question, I take it that the honourable senator has in mind that the Commonwealth should in some way or other subsidise interstate air services to Tasmania. I do not think the Government could agree that the absence of alternative land transport would in itself justify the provision of a subsidy. Furthermore, the proportion of air services subsidy would undoubtedly have implications for the passenger services provided by sea. The only answer I can give to the honourable senator is that the Government has no plans at this time to subsidise the air services to which he referred. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development has to do with an Omega navigation base, should it be established within the south east area of Australia. I ask: Is it true that if an Omega base is established within Australia it will not be used by Australian shipping around the Australian coast due to the strength of its signal causing interference and that, in fact, Australian shipping will have to use only Omega bases which are established in other countries? 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer state whether some Commonwealth Taxation offices are now overstaffed as the bulk of their work is now done by computers? What was the cost of operating the Taxation Branch computers during the pas year and what is the expected cost for the present year? What economies in staff numbers have been made since the introduction of computers into the Taxation Branch? 
It would be impossible for me to give precise information in reply to this question, but I shall seek that information from the Treasury. I feel bound to say also that it would be quite unreal to imagine that any government department or private business could simply press a button and say: 'Hey presto, we have computers'. It is a long and arduous procedure to install computers. If I am any judge of the Public Service Board, its requirements would be that there be a phasing of staff to deal with the introduction of computers over a period, that the phasing of staff have regard to redundancies, if any, and that the intake of new officers into a department be watched to ensure that there was no injury to the employment rights of people in the department. I am sure that that is the answer to the question, but as to the detailed information about the costs of computers I shall have to obtain that from the Minister and make it available to the honourable senator. 2 November 1971 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, relates to Hobart Airport. Does the Government have any early plans to extend the present runway at Hobart Airport and to add another runway in order better to cater for cross wind conditions? At what time will the passenger facilities at Hobart Airport be improved? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, concerns probate duty in Tasmania. I ask: How much money was collected by the Commonwealth Taxation Office from probate duty in Tasmania in the last 3 financial years? What percentage of the people responsible to pay it were women; in other words, is the collection of probate a problem that to a large extent falls upon women at a fairly difficult time? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have been informed by the Treasury that the most recent available statistics of Commonwealth estate duty assessments issued from Tasmania are for the 1969-70 financial year. Estate duty assessments in Tasmania totalled $845,000 in 1967-68, $1,551,000 in 1968-69 and $1,843,000 in 1969-70. The statistics do not show the extent to which this estate duty fell on women beneficiaries. However, I should point out that Commonwealth estate duty returns are not due for lodgment until the elapse of 3 months after the death and one month after the grant of probate. There is then, of course, a further time lag before the assessment is made and the duty becomes payable. The Commissioner of Taxation has the statutory authority to extend the time for the lodgment of returns and the payment of duty. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the additional profit disclosed by Trans-Australia Airlines, has the Minister given thought to having the Australian National Airlines Commission investigate a lower fare rate to Tasmania to give some preferential treatment to that State because of its almost entire dependence upon air transport and in lieu of money spent in other States upon roadways? 
1 ask a question of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. In about the middle of October I asked the Postmaster-General question No. 1S31 on the notice paper concerning reduction of telephone rental charges in Hobart in view of the few services easily available to subscribers in that area. I now ask: Is the Minister able to advise when a reply may be expected? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. As a brief preface to the question, 1 suggest that the Minister is well aware of how important to Tasmania and Australia our fishing industry is, and how frequently fishing boats from other countries poach within our territorial waters. In fact, I suggest that sometimes we do not know just how much poaching goes on. in view of the Government's decision to spend such a great deal of its defence allocation upon destroyers which most probably would be easily destroyed in time of war, will the Minister say whether consideration has been given to the alternative of building a larger number of high speed coastguard ships which could be used to patrol Tasmanian and other Australian territorial waters against poaching of fish? If the Government has this or some similar plan under consideration, will the Minister say whether a sufficient  number of these ships will be based in Tasmania to patrol the Tasmanian coastline and protect the fishing industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As we seem to be in a time when all possible economies in government expenditure should be made, has the Government given due thought to having all Government employees travel economy class on aircraft inside and outside Australia? Will the Minister advise the Senate how much money is spent by all Government departments on air travel inside and outside Australia each year and the likely saving if ail Government employees were to travel economy class? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not certain whether the honourable senator includes parliamentarians in his reference but I shall put that matter to one side. I shall seek to obtain the information that he requires from the Treasurer and will make it available when it comes to me. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Government aware that the ruling of the Commissioner of Taxation on profits from share trading is preventing many potential Australian investors from buying shares in exploratory Australian companies, some of which are now facing a great deal of trouble in raising local finance and so are not able to offer employment that they might otherwise be able to offer? Does the Government realise that another result of Australians not being game to invest in these companies is 'that overseas investors are being enabled more easily to buy up Australian companies? Finally, has the Government any plans to enact a fairer method of share taxation at a lower rate so that Australians will again be prepared to invest in exploration companies in Australia? 
The honourable senator's suggestion that a fairer method of share taxation would involve taxation at a lower rate is arguable. It might even be questionable but perhaps arguable is the better word. The principle behind section 26A of the Income Tax Assessment Act is simply that income from share transactions should be brought to assessment and taxed on the same basis as any other form of income. It seems a fair and reasonable principle. A distinction between what is income and what is not in connection with share transactions has come in for a good deal of comment lately, but I think .that the uncertainty in the minds of the taxpayers concerned is generally much less than recent comment has suggested. The present provision has been in the law for a very long time. I think the consequences suggested by the honourable senator could be, as I said, arguable. Let us say they are debatable. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. No doubt the Minister is aware that Tasmania contains many millions of tons of coal, much of which could be very easily won. Will he say whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organisation has investigated the possible use of this coal for chemical purposes? If it has not done so, will he advise me of the correct line of action to have such an investigation carried out? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, by saying that no doubt he is aware that the entries for the telephone directory for the northwest area of Tasmania closed on 1st May this year, yet 7 months later this book is not available. Can the Minister inform the Senate when this directory for the northwest area of Tasmania will be available to subscribers? 
 Is the Minister for Health aware that the small amount of money made available by the Federal Government for medical research in this country leaves university research departments and teaching hospitals with a perpetual feeling of uncertainty about where their finances are coming from and that the heads of these departments have difficulty in recruiting and retaining talented senior staff? fs he aware that Australia's approximately 67 research centres feel that the present grant requires to be doubled? Will the Minister say whether the Government intends to increase the medical research grant to stop the medical brain drain of 40 to 50 experts a year, whose training costs this country approximately Si. 5m? 
I have had the advantage of seeing articles in one of the Melbourne journals. Naturally when my attention was drawn to them I set about getting some background information. I will have processed certain particular aspects of the honourable senator's question, but I respond to the generality of the point that he made, particularly the reference to the brain drain story. 1 have seen the letter to the 'Age' by the members of the Australian Society for Medical Research. The main point contained in the articles is a contention that relatively large numbers of medical research workers are leaving the country. I would dispute this contention. Of course accurate statistics at this point are not available, but I must stress that information which has come to my Department over the past few years clearly indicates that rather than a brain drain occurring there has been what might be described as a brain gain to Australia in the field of medical research. 
Scientific research is an international affair and the movements of personnel such as medical research workers must be seen in that light. Indeed the National Health and Medical Research Council awards fellowships known as the C. J. Martin Travelling Fellowships specifically for overseas study.It is interesting to note that of the 40 such fellowships awarded to date only 4 of the research workers involved have not yet returned to Australia to continue their academic studies in Australia. But considering this matter on a broader basis, one has only to look at the academic staff appointments in our universities to see that an influx of qualified personnel from overseas is occurring. A large proportion of these university appointments is filled by highly qualified personnel who in fact have chosen to come to Australia to work in the scientific environment which is undoubtedly here. These include numerous appointees to medical research fields. 
Reference has been made again today both in this question and in the Press to Commonwealth financial support for the John Curtin School of Medical Research in Canberra. In reply to this point I can only say that the John Curtin School is of international standing in medical research and, as an integral part of the Australian National University, is quite naturally supported by Commonwealth finance. Finally, I must stress that the National Health and Medical Research Council, through which Commonwealth expenditure on medical research is channelled, has always allocated the bulk of these funds to projects by individuals or groups of researchers rather than to projects of a capital expenditure nature. This approach is intended specifically to foster the development of career medical research workers in Ausralia. It is my conviction and that of the Government that the continuous development of medical research in Australia is essential, and honourable senators can be assured that this policy will be continued. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Educaion and Science advise whether Commonwealth scholarships made available to university students and not used are subsequently made available to other students? If they are not, will the Minister take whatever action is necessary to make it possible for worthy students to use these grants? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister, for the Navy, upon notice: 
In view of the decision to expend a large amount of the defence financial allocation on naval destroyers which would be easily eliminated in time of war, what consideration has been given to the building of a larger number of high speed coastguard vessels, which could also protect Australian territorial waters and the Tasmanian coast, in particular, against illegal fishing. (if) If the Government has such a plan under consideration, will a sufficient number of the vessels be based in Tasmania? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health: In view of the large increase in the rate of suicide in Australia over the last few years, particularly amongst the 15-year to 24-year age group, will the Minister say whether any research, sponsored by the Commonwealth, into this problem is being carried out?If not, willhe attempt to institute some such research? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services whether the Government is aware that Australia spends only about 5½ per cent of the gross national product on social services whereas some European Economic Community countries spend about twice that percentage and Canada spends just less than twice that percentage? In view of this and the fact that it would not be inflationary, will the Government give an immediate increase of $2 a week to all pensioners? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Does the sudden increase in the rates of interest on contracts involving the purchase of a house often impose a severe burden on the purchaser. 
Will the Government give consideration to the exemption of such contracts from any increases in interest rates that may occur. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister or the Treasurer. Further to the question I asked a few days ago concerning the matter of having Government employees travel economy class instead of first class, will the Minister advise when the ruling to allow first class travel was introduced by the Public Service Board, whether it applies to all Government employees, and whether the Public Service Board has in fact reviewed the ruling recently in the light of the much shorter times that are now involved in flying in Australia and the improved standard of economy flying in this country? 
The relevant Commonwealth Public Service regulations allowing first class travel for certain staff was introduced under the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1902. Not all staff employed under the Commonwealth Public Service Act are entitled to first class travel. The Public Service Board, which is the statutory body charged with administrative matters of this kind,- is undertaking an examination of the question of economy class travel by Government employees, including consideration of the factors to which the honourable senator has referred, namely, the shorter times involved in flying in Australia and indeed the improved standard of economy flying in this country. So in fact this matter is under examination at the present time. 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Has the Government any plans to increase unemployment benefits in the near future? If not, will the Minister say whether  SI 8  for a man and his wife and  S4.50  for each child under 16 years of age is sufficient assistance in this day and age? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General lower telephone tariffs in the Hobart telephone district, in view of the small number of telephone services within 150 miles of Hobart and the fact that a large percentage of calls are made through subscriber trunk dialling? 
Will the Postmaster-General also consider a re-adjustment of trunk line charges between Tasmania and the mainland, so that Tasmania is not further disadvantaged by its separation from the mainland? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice:  (lj Will the present planned flooding of the Gordon River Valley in southern Tasmania by the Hydro-electric Commission result in the destruction of some 90 per cent of the available commercial limber, worth many millions of dollars, over more than 9,000 acres. 
Will the Minister take up the matter with the Tasmanian Government and attempt to have the Hooding delayed for sufficient time to enable the salvaging of this timber, much of which is in world-wide demand. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for 
National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (11 and (2) Information supplied by the Tasmanian Forestry Commission indicates that as a result of the flooding of the Gordon River Valley, an area of about 8,230 acres of timbered land will be covered by water. The Forestry Commission has estimated that this area carries approximately 67 million super feel (hoppus) of saw logs and the 3 firms at present extracting saw logs from the area should recover 90 per cent of the total volume. 
There is a large quantity of pulp wood which is in jeopardy and T understand the Tasmanian Government is currently considering what action might be taken to recover this timber. 
I preface a question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, by saying that no doubt he is aware of the financial assistance granted during 1971 to certain cooperatives and companies concerned with the canning of fruit. Is the Minister aware that, perhaps largely due to those grants being made, Tasmanian fruit canning concerns are finding it difficult to compete with canning concerns on the mainland and to sell at a profit Tasmanian canned fruit whilst giving the grower a reasonable return? If the Minister is aware of the difficult position in which the Tasmanian fruit industry is finding itself, will he ask the Government to make a specific grant to the Tasmanian Government to aid the Tasmanian companies which arc concerned with canning fruit and so aid an industry which is extremely important to Tasmania? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. In view of the present rate of inflation and the difficulties caused by that inflation to those on low incomes, and in line wilh the Government's stated policy of continually maintaining a reasonable level of income for those people in receipt of social service pensions, is the Government in a position at present to give an immediate increase of at least $2 a week to all pensioners? 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation say whether any investigation has been made into the possibility of having aircraft depart from the northerly runway at Launceston airport to avoid direct over-flying of Launceston city, particularly early in the morning and in the evening? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that the Tasmanian telephone directory now is divided into 3 sections whereas previously it was one book. Will the Minister say whether the Postmaster-General intends to continue this practice in the future or to revert to the much more convenient style of one book only? If his answer is in the affirmative will he endeavour to ensure that all sections are delivered within a reasonable time of the closing of entries and not 7 months later as was the case with the north west directory in this past year? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, by saying that I presume he realises that if a man is being retrained under the national service retraining scheme or under an industrial retraining scheme his wife's income does not affect his living allowance. Is the Minister aware that if a farmer is being retrained under the rural reconstruction scheme his wife's income can affect his allowance? Will the Minister take action to examine this anomaly? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Taking into consideration the assistance that is granted to nursing homes which care for the elderly and taking into consideration the savings to the community when people care for their parents in their homes, will the Minister give consideration to making some form of assistance available to those who care for their aged parents so that such people are not disadvantaged when compared with those who place their parents in nursing homes? 
The question raises a matter of policy. I cannot respond to such a question. I shall have to skirt around it. The case for a domiciliary nursing subsidy is a strong one. By its nature, it has some problems. Nevertheless, it is a strong case not only because there are people in nursing homes but also because people may be discharged from hospital and may go to private homes. The matter is currently under examination. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As most of the money involved in the Hydro-Electric Commission's undertaking in Tasmania is Commonwealth money, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate advise the Senate whether he is aware of the strong feeling of many Australians against the projected flooding of Lake Pedder which is claimed to be Australia's most beautiful lake? Secondly, in view of the spate of bombings that are almost everyday occurrences in other areas of the world, is he aware of the vulnerability of the dam involved in the Pedder scheme and of suggestions by some radical people that it be blown up? Thirdly, will be ask the Tasmanian Government to take immediate steps to protect the dam and the very considerable Commonwealth investment? 
Even the Leader of the Government in the Senate hears of certain happenings on the perimeter. I have an idea that an election is to be held in Tasmania shortly and I have heard some of the elements of this matter referred to. I would have great reservations about bombings in Tasmania. However, this is a serious question and I will refer it to the Treasurer. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Health and it concerns something which I mentioned towards the end of last year. Is the Minister aware that many top medical research men are still leaving this country apparently because of lack of finance made available by the Commonwealth for medical research? Will the Government give favourable consideration to making more money available for this field of endeavour? 
I do not think that in a reply one can be as categorical as the question suggests. To attempt to do so one would need to deal with individual cases. Many great Australian physicians and surgeons have gone overseas and become world famous. It is equally true that men who have received their tertiary education and gained university degrees in Australia, have gone overseas, acquired extra knowledge, come back here and given this knowledge in the interests of the nation with great distinction. I would wish to be more precise about the matter. I have just been handed a document from the Department of Health referring to the National Health and Medical Research Council, which states: 
In the 71st Session, the Council completed its major grant making programme for 1971. Grants from the Medical Research Endowment Fund totalling $2,2*1,883 were recommended for the support of 253 medical research projects ($1,946,681), SO Medical and Dental Postgraduate Research Scholarships ($297,925); and 5 Public Health Travelling Fellowships ($71,277). 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General supply details of the percentage use of long distance telephone equipment between Melbourne and Sydney during the following hours: (a) 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., (b) 6 p.m. to 8 p.m., (c) 8 p.m. to 10pm., (d) 10p.m. to midnight and (e) after midnight. 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of the low percentage use of long distance telephone equipment after 6 p.m. each day as detailed in the Minister's reply to me yesterday, will the Minister urgently consider reducing the cost of calls after 10 p.m. and before 6 a.m. so that people living in outlying parts of Australia such as Tasmania and country areas may have the benefit of being able to communicate over long distances at a more reasonable cost? 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, by reminding him that on 23rd February last I directed a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. My question related to specific grants to the Tasmanian Government to be passed on to the Tasmanian companies concerned with canning fruit, particularly apples.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said that be would redirect the question to the Minister for Primary Industry. My question is simple: When may I expect a reply to that question? I now ask the Minister whether he will ask the Minister for Primary Industry to visit the apple and pear growing areas of Tasmania as soon as possible to examine at first hand the needs of the orchardists and canning companies. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the number of Australians killed and injured on our roads, many of whom die in crashes at excessive speed, will he attempt to introduce regulations to limit the maximum speed of any new vehicles sold in this country to that maximum legal speed in most States? Secondly, will he discuss with the Postmaster-General the possibility of setting strict standards for car advertisements on television so that the advertisements do not aim to sell on speed and power? 
asked the Acting Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What Tasinanian post offices, official or nonofficial, are planned to be closed prior to 31st December 1973. 

 Senator COTTON - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
It is not planned to close any official post offices prior to 31st December 1973. Consideration is being given to closing the Takone and Calder West non-official post offices when the automatic telephone service is introduced shortly, and the Dulverton office at the end of April as it is serving only 2 families, one being that of the Postmistress. Scamander Upper, and Falmouth could be closed later in the year because very little business is being transacted and alternative mail arrangements can be made. Golconda could close at the end of the year if the automatic exchange is cutover as planned No firm plans have been made beyond this. 
Will the Attorney- 
General, who represents the Minister for Social Services in this chamber, ask the Minister for Social Services to examine the possibility of altering the legislation applying to unemployment benefit so that when a person is out of work he can claim the benefit, irrespective of the income of others in his family? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Will the Commonwealth Government conduct a referendum in Tasmania, in conjunction with the next Federal election, concerning the proposed flooding of Lake Pedder. 
As Lake Pedder is in a national park, will the Minister ask the Tasmanian Government to halt the flooding until such a referendum has been held. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) No. The proposed flooding of Lake Pedder is purely a matter for decision by the Tasmanian Government. The Commonwealth is not in a position to conduct a referendum on this subject. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity of Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the tax free allowances recently granted to those with enough money to invest on the stock exchanges, has the Government considered granting income tax exemption to the interest given by building societies and the like and by savings banks to those people with a taxable income of less than $4,000 per annum? 
That clearly is a matter of Government policy. I suggest that the question be placed on the notice paper and I will see that it is referred to the Treasurer. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, is in several parts. Firstly, is the Government aware that the blue pea industry has in past years meant an inflow of about  $400,000 to the north west of Tasmania? Secondly, is the Government aware that New Zealand blue peas are being dumped in Australia and are being allowed to undersell the local produce? Thirdly, is the Government aware that its failure to implement the restricting provisions of the trade agreement with New Zealand is likely to result in the total destruction of the blue pea industry in Tasmania? Fourthly, will the Minister say whether the Government intends to take any action on this matter? 
Will the Minister for Health say how long it is since the Commonwealth Department of Health carried out a survey into the nutritional needs of the people of this country? Has the Commonwealth Department of Health ever investigated whether people on low incomes are financially capable of buying the food they need, from a health point of view? Are any of them suffering from malnutrition, as some people claim to be the case? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI certainly would like to have notice of that question. As the honourable senator knows, the time that I have held the portfolio of Minister for Health would not allow me off the cuff to give the history of investigations which may or may not have taken place in the Department of Health in relation to the overall question of the nutritional standards of some 13 million people in the community. I do not know the answer to the honourable senator's question but I will obtain it and make it available. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will he say whether a woman who is required to look after and support one or more children may deduct from her taxable income any costs incurred in having the children looked after during her working hours? If not, will he ask the Government to examine this matter with a view to helping this often financially embarrassed group? 
As the honourable senator would know, as a general rule - I think it is a very wise rule - I do not at question time give categorical answers to questions on taxation unless I have been briefed in relation to the direct question. I will obtain the information and make it available without delay. I think it proper that I should not make comments in that way because the content of my answer might lead people to draw the wrong inferences from that answer if I have not understood the implications of the question. However, I will get the information for the honourable senator. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that approximately 1,000 acres of orchards in Tasmania are being bulldozed each year due to the difficulty of the owners in continuing in this once profitable industry? Is the Minister able to say whether any early action can be expected to aid this very important but ailing Tasmanian primary industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware (a) that the flooding of Lake Pedder will result in the destruction of at least sixteen species of plants and animals which are unique to this lake, (b) that Lake Pedder was named as an inland body of water of outstanding scientific importance in  a  publication of the International Biological Programme in 1969, and (c) that the preservation of Lake Pedder is highly desirable was re-affirmed in Handbook No. 21  of  the International Biological Programme in 1971. 
Will the Minister ask the Tasmanian Government to review its decision to  allow  the Hydro-Electric Commission to flood the area. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The points made by the honourable senator have been noted. 
No. As stated in answering another question asked by the honourable senator on this subject (Question No. 2013) the proposed flooding  of Lake  Pedderis purely  a  matter for decision by the Tasmanian Government. Again as stated recently by the Prime Minister in another place, the Commonwealth has neither the power effectively to intervene nor could it take any other action which would compel the Tasmanian Government to change its mind. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is it correct that  if a  person applies for  a  pension the payments of the pension, if approved, dates only from the next pension pay. 
Is the Minister aware that this creates difficulties for some pensioners, and will the Government consider dating the pension from the date of first application. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) A full fortnightly instalment of pension is paid on the first pay-day after receipt of a claim that is subsequently granted. 
Payment on a daily basis would result in  a  reduction in the amount of this first instalment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Does any means  test  apply on Age Pensions paid to those eligible people living outside Australia. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 present the following petition from 91 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Government has, over the last half century, supported the industrialisation of Tasmania to the extent of allowing Tasmania, for many years, to borrow from the Loan Council twice the annual State entitlement to invest in hydro-electric schemes to the extent that the net loan debt as at 30th June 1969 was $336m. 
That the net result of this policy has been the attraction to Tasmania of industries producing zinc, aluminium, newsprint, calcium carbide, ferro-manganese, tin,  pelletised  iron ore, cement, and titanium oxide; all of which use large amounts of electricity such that Tasmania, with 3 per cent of the Australian population, uses IS per cent of Australia's electricity and the State's consumption, averaging 1 1,000 units per head, is second only to Norway's. 
That, despite this industrialisation, Tasmania's share of the Australian population has actually declined and the Tasmanian share of the Australian work force has not increased. 
That, in 1971, the University of Tasmania conducted an economic research investigation into the value to Tasmania of its large industrial enterprises showing that, of the 4 major manufacturing classes in Tasmania (Metals etc.. Food and Drink, Sawmills etc.. Paper and Stationery) which together account for 79 per cent of the value of production, Food and Drink had the greatest overall impact on output and employment in the State, and the conclusion reached was that, for further economic growth in the State, expansion in industries in the Food and .Drink sector should be encouraged. 
That the non-ferrous metal smelting sector of the metal industries, which uses some 16 per cent of the total electricity output, has the smallest effect on employment in Tasmania, employing only 2.S per cent directly and 3 per cent indirectly of the Tasmanian workforce. 
That the Annual Report of the Hydro-Electric Commission for 1970-71 pointed to the decline in industrialisation in Tasmania and suggested that future sales of electricity to new large users of industrial power were not presently forthcoming; that, during the term of office of the recent Liberal Government in Tasmania, no new industries which use large quantities ot electricity were established despite frequent announcements in local newspapers that new industries were negotiating to establish in Tasmania, while Comalco, late in 1971, announced a reduction in aluminium output of some 7 per cent; that  Mr Reece,  at the conclusion of the poll which returned Labor to the Government benches with a 21-14 majority, announced thai Tasmania had a surplus of power which it was the job of the new Government to try to sell. 
Thai despite this failure of long-established policies of hydro-industrialisation to increase population, increase employment or even to continue to attract industry to Tasmania, there is no slackening of State investment in hydro-electric schemes and no questioning by the Commonwealth of the wisdom of continuing to meet Tasmanian demands for loan funds for this purpose. 
That this problem is compounded when an assessment is made of the price paid by the Tasmanian people for continuing to pursue such policies in terms of the destruction of environment, pollution of waters, and elimination of beauty in this uniquely beautiful island State. 
That, at this moment, the destruction ot Lake Pedder, Australia's most beautiful lake, is being hastened with unseemly and unwarranted dispatch for the purposes of completing a further hydro-electric scheme which will generate huge quantities of power for unknown and unimagined users at a time when the premier-elect has publicly announced an existing surplus of power in the State. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will: 
As soon as is practicable establish a Select Committee for the purposes hereinafter mentioned. 
Immediately call upon the Hydro-Electric Commission of Tasmania or use whatever powers are available, to halt the flooding of Lake Pedder until at least a decision is made whether or not to appoint a Select Committee. 
And your petitioners pray that the said Select Committee should enquire into Commonwealth expenditure on hydro-electric development in Tasmania with particular reference to the Lake Pedder Serpentine Valley area and the economic, industrial and ecological implications of continued hydro-electric development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will eve pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Is the Minister aware that the means test as applied to persons in receipt of the age pension requires such pensioners to include any income which is received as superannuation? Can the Minister say whether the Government has further considered allowing superannuation receipts to be exempted from the means test? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will the Minister consider reducing the telephone rental for telephones installed in premises occupied by organisations catering for pensioners. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Provided that it is a charitable institution within the meaning of Regulation 84 of the Post and Telegraph Act, an organisation catering for pensioners is already eligible for a 50 per cent reduction on fees for local calls made from telephones on its premises. 
Any new telephone concession for such an organisation would be a matter of policy for consideration at the appropriate time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister  for  the Interior, upon notice: 
Are radiation counts made by the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology, and if so are these counts published. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for the Interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology cooperates with the Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee in the monitoring of radio active fallout in Australia. All details of these programmes and results from them are published regularly, the most recent being AWTSC Reports Nos 1, 2 and 3, tabled in Parliament respectively on 6th May 1971, 14th October 1971 and 13th April 1972 respectively. 
Details of the part played by, the Bureau of Meteorology are given in those reports. 
As part of a world-wide survey to monitor TRITIUM rain water samples are collected on a continuous basis from 7 stations. These are sent to the International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna for analysis and are published in its technical reports series 117. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. In view of the increasing violence in the United States of America and in other areas of the western world, will the Minister say whether he is prepared to re-examine the admission criteria of films depicting undue violence and keep out of Australia such films until his Department or some other department has had a study carried out to establish possible links between violence seen on the movie and television screens and violence that occurs in the community? 
Thank you very much,  Mr Deputy President.  It is not without some feeling of a great responsibility that I have sat in this chamber for the numerically few days since being sworn in. I now take this opportunity to address this august assembly of honourable senators but, if I may, just prior to moving on to the few points that  1  wish to make during this speech, I would consider myself to be most incorrect if  1  did not make mention of the many kindnesses that have been extended to me since I first walked into this chamber. From every quarter I have received true assistance. The attendants and staff all have attended to my needs in a manner that could not have been bettered. I thank them all. The members of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare have made me welcome. Honourable senators, without exception, willingly have helped their youngest fellow settle into this place, and to  Mr President  I owe a special vote of thanks for the way in which he has recognised me quite early during question time and made me feel comfortable in this chamber. They are the local thanks that  1  gratefully give, and I hope some day to be able to repay them. 
May I now say that I feel it is a tremendous honour to represent Tasmania and to do so as an independent senator. It is wise perhaps for an independent to make certain things clear in his maiden speech. Recently I read a passage which stated: 

 It you work for  a  man, in heaven's name work for him. If he pays your wages that supply your bread and butter, work for him, speak well of him, stand by him and the institutions he represents. 
As a Tasmanian senator I am being paid to work for the people of Tasmania, and this I shall do. Those honourable senators who have listened to many of the questions that I have asked will realise that a great many of them involve Tasmanian problems. I make no apology for that. I feel that I am here to work for Tasmania first of all. This couples with or, should I say, results from my rather old-fashioned ideas about the Senate. I do not believe that the Senate was ever intended by the framers of the Constitution to be a Party House where decisions of the Executive merely received a rubber stamp of approval simply because of a majority of Government supporters in this chamber. I regard the Senate as a House of Review and a House where the smaller States are as important as the larger States. I think I would have adopted this same attitude had I come here as a member of a Party. I am aware that in some quarters Independents are regarded somewhat as a nuisance. I cannot speak for other Independent senators on the back bench but I would say that I shall not be a nuisance any more than I have to be. Honourable senators perhaps will find that I cannot be bothered with a lot of reiteration, such as I have noticed here from time to time, and I will try not to waste more breath than necessary in repetition. 
Having said those few words I would now touch on a few matters which I believe to be important to Australia and Tasmania. Almost every day we see headlines in the Press relating to this Government's handling of the economy. I refer to statements such as 'Australia's income tax structure has become a disincentive to work', 'the economy needs a transfusion', the savage impact of inflation on the pensioner', and 'probate reform necessary'. These are the kind of things that we see. One sometimes wonders whether the Press has the knife out for this Government; or maybe the Government has been just meddling along the economic path instead of striding courageously forward. Therefore I would like to refer to a few segments of the economy. 
Firstly I want to refer to pensions and what we could call the treatment of our poor. Those honourable senators who have noticed the number of questions I have asked over recent months will have noted that a great many of them concern matters relating to obtaining benefits for our poor, particularly our pensioners, the unemployed and the superannuitants. I believe that the treatment of pensioners by this Government is not all that it could be. I am not impressed by those who say that the Government has increased pensions so much over the years. It is all very well and very easy to say this, provided nothing else increases at the same time. But we all know just how much the essentials of life, things like food, clothing and so on, have increased in cost. Those honourable senators who meet and deal with pensioners in day to day life, as I do, or who have relatives who are pensioners, will know only too well that instead of being better off these days pensioners and superannuitants are falling further and further behind into the pool of poverty in this country. 
What is wrong with our Government when it needs the church leaders to point out the state of poverty? What is wrong with the Government when it allows almost all its public servants to travel first class in aircraft at a cost of some several million dollars a year more than it would if they went economy class? What is wrong with a Government which gives us members of Parliament an extra $7 a day and yet will not give pensioners more than $1 a week extra? There is nothing magical in the figure of $1; there is nothing magical in a figure of $5 either but I think that that would be a bit closer to the mark of what is needed right now by our pensioners, particularly single people. I therefore call upon the Government to ease the means test immediately and to make at least a $5 a week increase in pensions. None of this waiting until Budget time. Tasmania pensioners have to get through the winter. Pension increases are not inflationary, except to a very small degree, so it seems to me that this could be a very humane way of helping to stimulate the economy at the same time. It will mean, of course, that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  will have one less rabbit to pull out of the hat in August but it will show the people that the Government is not fat or that it could not care less. It will show them that it can make decisions that are morally right. 
I want now to say a little about taxation and inflation because I believe that Australians have become far too heavily taxed. Over the years wages have been inflating, giving much more total income but a reduced real income due to higher tax rates on the extra income. This increased tax has made revenue raising very easy for the Federal Government but it is now becoming a burden on those people who are even on an average income and it makes us amongst the highest taxpayers in the Western world. We should have a totally new package deal in taxation. Our sister nation Canada recently introduced tax reform which involved many worthwhile benefits such as child care expenses, a general reduction in tax rates, a relocation allowance for people when they change jobs, an income averaging plan to permit taxpayers to spread unusual income, and lower tax rates for Canadian owned companies. They are just a few things that I think Australia could well copy but I will deal with this matter at greater length some other day. It is a subject that interests me a great deal and one that I feel is important to the rate of development in this country. At the moment I am afraid that we are losing out because incentive is being taxed out of existence. 
Another matter related to the economy that will have to wait until another day for deep discussion is inflation. I feel that a very speedy reduction of many tariffs would help reduce the rate of price increase. Tariffs designed to help Aus-, tralian manufacturers have been a tremendous help  to  foreign investors. General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, for instance, may in fact be making a higher percentage return from its investment in this country than it does in Detroit. High rates of profit by Australian companies are due in part to high tariffs combined with a lack of effective or proven legislation concerning restrictive trade practices. The link between absence of competition and rate of price increase has been demonstrated. For industries that are dominated by a few firms, increases in price have more to do with excess tariffs than with excessive wage rises. We cannot stop inflation by just bashing the unions. Measures to reduce tariffs and increased competition and efficiency are infinitely more important. 
Finally in this section of my speech relating to our economy, I would like to see an immediate pension increase, as already requested, and the means test removed over a period of years. It is time, too, for a reduction of all sales taxes, particularly that on cars. I think that the sales tax on cars should be reduced by about 5 per cent to a fairer figure straight away. I would like to see the tax on low incomes reduced and a tax on peak incomes limited to SO per cent, which has been done in New Zealand and Canada. These measures would admittedly cost the Government a considerable amount but the general stimulus to the economy would be beneficial. 
I now turn to the apple and pear industry. Uppermost in the mind of any Tasmanian senator when talking on this subject must be the importance of this industry to Tasmania. Perhaps because Tasmania has been known as the 'Apple Isle' for so many years, there is sometimes a danger that we will fail to recognise that this industry and its associated canning and processing companies makes up an important part of the Tasmanian economy. The whole of Tasmania derives benefit from the sale of apples and pears, both fresh and canned, and as Tasmania is the main exporter of apples and pears from Australia this is an industry which should be supported, when necessary, for the good of the country as well as for the good of Tasmania. Those who grow the fruit are vitally concerned with the viability of the industry but so too are those who pack and cart and those who load the fruit onto ships. In fact really the whole of Tasmania, particularly southern Tasmania, has a vested interest in seeing that this industry continues to grow. Certainly it must not be allowed to decline. 
What is the national picture of the apple and pear industry? Over the past 5 or 6 years there has only been a very slight increase in the number of acres of orchard in Australia. However, the Australian output has been rising a little due to better yields. Of this output about 70 per cent was absorbed locally. In the domestic market the wholesale price for apples has declined slightly, particularly when compared with other price rises, but even with this price decline the consumption has remained steady. The consumption of canned fruit has increased and in fact this is where most of the increased production has gone. 
Tasmania is vitally concerned with the export of apples and pears and unfortunately over the last couple of seasons this has remained fairly stagnant. Some 60 per cent of the canned fruit and 30 per cent of the fresh fruit that Australia exports finds its way to the United Kingdom market. The cost of getting the fruit there has increased a lot over past years and all along the line producers have been faced with significant cost increases, particularly in this export sector. With Britain's entry into the European Economic Community it is to be expected that our exports will suffer. Production of apples in places that compete with Australian sales in the United Kingdom, such as South Africa and France, is presently rising. We can no longer expect the long existing favourable access to the British market that we have experienced in the past and we can expect countries such as South Africa, whose fruit arrives in England earlier than ours, gradually to take a larger share of the market. We will then have an 8 per cent EEC customs duty to add to the price of our apples. This cost will result in some loss of sales due to an increased selling price, and new methods of storage may also allow EEC fruit to come onto the market during the time of traditional Australian supply. 
Australian apple exports have levelled off over the last 2 years. These exports came predominantly from Tasmania, and to Tasmania continued export income from apples is vital. As I said earlier, it is not only the orchardists but also the many thousands of people in my State who could be affected. Prospects in the industry do not appear too bright for our export markets in apples due to the increasing competition, increased local and shipping costs and the likely effect of British entry into the European Economic Community. These problems are not insurmountable. We must concentrate on the production of those varieties and sizes which are most favoured in the export market. We must find new markets. Without these the industry will regress. These new markets should be preferably closer to us than England. Let us send a trade mission to the South East Asian area and see whether markets cannot be developed in the countries there. The industry in Tasmania is at the crossroads. 
Earlier I said that the growth section of the industry was in the canning section. I have asked that assistance be given to this section of the industry in Tasmania comparable with that being given to canning co-operatives in Victoria and New South Wales. This industry needs some form of government assistance now if the orchard acreage is not be be allowed to decline even further in Tasmania. At the moment, the industry, particularly in Tasmania, faces a somewhat bleak future. But I am heartened by the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has advised me via his representative in the Senate, the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that the Government is concerned about the serious marketing difficulties being faced. I have been advised that the Department of Primary Industry is to investigate the position fully. I, along with those associated with the industry in Tasmania, can hope only that a full report is made shortly and not in a few months time. It cannot wait that long. 
From the problems of the south, I should now like to say a little about our near northern neighbours. It is of tremendous importance that Australians should know as much as possible about their near northern neighbours. Of course, Indonesia has a common border with us in New Guinea. Much of Indonesia is closer to Darwin than Darwin is to any capital city in Australia. Singapore and Malaysia are not much further away than that. We are part of South East Asia. But Australians in the main do not always understand the implications of this proximity to our nearest neighbours, nor do we realise that in this region things are prone to happen very quickly. Indonesia, with its 120 million people, has had traumatic experiences in the last 10 years which have impoverished a naturally rich country but which have seemingly now produced a stable government which is unlikely to be overthrown in the foreseeable future. 
Australia recently welcomed the first Indonesian  President  to visit our country. In his welcoming speech our Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  referred to the 130 million Indonesians.  President  Suharto a few minutes later referred to his country's US million people. Probably neither gentleman really knows how many people there are in the multitude of islands that make up Indonesia. Whoever is right, there are very many Indonesians ready to trade, ready to learn and ready for friendship and help from our technically richer country. The new Cabinet in Indonesia gives reason to hope that the rich resources of that country are about to be better utilised than ever before. In a 24-man Cabinet, not fewer than 12 members are graduates, most of them in science and economics. We will be wise, then, to maintain ties with this potentially rich and powerful country and to do all that we can to foster friendship. 
Although numerically less important for strategic, commercial and other reasons it is wise for us to promote friendship with Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines. Thailand and other countries in this region in which we are placed. Other countries are certainly going out of their way to woo South East Asian countries. Japan is actively penetrating all of them with its goahead marketing practices. Red China is not at all slow in finding markets in these places for all kinds of consumer goods. Recently, Russia and her satellite countries have manifested a new interest in all the nations of this region. We are doing reasonably well in promoting trade. But we can do more, especially if we get to know more of the culture, customs and trading methods of these countries. Because of our favourable geographical position we should have an edge on any of the other countries that are competing for trade and friendship. But this will not happen while our ideas continue to be Europe-orientated or dominated. It is very important that we get to know the people who live just over the fence. 
In days past European nations could come to these areas of South East Asia, exploit them and, if they made mistakes, they could go home again. But we cannot do this. We live here, so we have to take care that we do not make mistakes. The big test of our political adroitness will come if, or when, the United States of America pulls out of South East Asia. Something of a political vacuum will be created which surely will be filled by someone. Red China, Japan and Russia will be contenders in this sphere of influence. The US may maintain a presence but it is unlikely to be of the recent scale. 
So far the most efficient of the interested nations has been Japan. We already have a large trade with Japan and it is likely that we may have competition with Japan for markets in the countries of South East Asia. One thing that I feel our Government should certainly be doing is studying how best we and the Japanese can get along in the region. It is of paramount importance that we learn more about Japanese methods of exploiting markets and seeing how best we can use the changing situation which is sure to follow the American withdrawal. It is not my intention to dogmatise as to how we should act in regard to each of the countries to our north. My one contention is that we must get to know them and, as far as possible, to understand them. We should do all that we can to foster trade with them because it has been well said that frontiers that are crossed by trade are less likely to be crossed by guns. May that be true in our case. 
In closing I would like to draw the attention of honourable senators to the special needs of Tasmania for more favourable treatment than has been meted out to our forgotten island in the past. Being cut off from the mainland by Bass Strait costs us a lot. Sea freights continue to rise. As a result, most commodities brought to or sent from Tasmania suffer additional costs. I think that the cost of living in Tasmania is the highest in the Commonwealth. Yet in many respects the services available to Tasmanians are inferior to those available in this northern part, of Australia. I instance wireless and television licence fees. We have just 3 television stations, 2 in Hobart and an additional one in Launceston, yet we pay the same for television and radio licences as do those mainlanders who live in Melbourne or Sydney, or who have a dozen or half a dozen channels from which to choose. It would be reasonable to grade television and radio licence charges according to the number of channels available to viewers and listeners. Colour television is on the way. In Tasmania I suppose we will have 2 or 3 stations showing colour television. A new colour television set will cost $600 or $700. Very few people will be able to afford this. Certainly with the licence fee being as high as it is, it is just one other unfair impost for a State with only a few television channels. 
Another aspect of this cost of living question concerns pensioners in Tasmania. For about 9 months of the year elderly persons in Tasmania need artificial heating for their dwellings if they are to remain comfortable. In old age or in sickness, keeping warm is very important. Pensioners in Tasmania should be given an addition to their pensions to pay for whatever form of heating may be desirable. Perhaps our cold climate is bracing for the young but for the aged it is a real problem. Besides warmth in their living environment, old people require additional nutrition to supply the body with extra fuel foods for warmth. Many foods are more expensive in Tasmania than in the rest of Australia. So Tasmanian pensioners need to spend more of their money on food. These matters are not nearly as important in the warmer climates. I contend that an additional amount should be paid to Tasmanian pensioners. I suggest that the same amount be paid to superannuitants. Extra money paid to pensioners is not inflationary to any extent. It is mostly spent on essentials, not on luxuries. 
I deal briefly with transport. Tasmanian railways suffer from several handicaps. The first is the short distances travelled. Everyone knows that railways are economical only for transporting heavy loads on long hauls or where a large population makes rail travel relatively cheap for its passengers. Tasmania has little passenger traffic on the railways. If the north-south line were shortened by eliminating many of the sharp curves between Hobart and Rhyndaston people might use the trains because the time taken to travel between Hobart and the north would be reduced and because travelling would be more comfortable. When one realises just how much Commonwealth money was spent on the east-west railway on the mainland and on eliminating the break of gauge, it would seem reasonable to grant Tasmania as much money as would be necessary to modernise some of its rail transport. 
The other transport matter on which I will touch relates to the crossing of Bass Strait. That is a real barrier when one wishes to visit the mainland. It is not always possible to get a berth on one of the ferries, so most people fly. Australians fly more miles per capita that any other people and Tasmanians, I think, fly more than other Australians, because they have to. It is time that the Government had a look at the cost of air travel, especially between Tasmania and the mainland. When one sees how overseas fares have been cut by some companies it would appear that our interstate fares may be too high. I suggest that a close examination be made of the cost of interstate air travel to see whether economies can be made and reductions brought about. I offer my thanks to those honourable senators who have been kind enough to listen to me. I very much appreciate their courtesy tonight. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer upon notice: 
What loss of revenue would result if the maximum rate of personal income tax was limited to 50c per dollar. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
At present, general rates of tax, when combined with additional tax payable under section 8 of the Income Tax Act 1971-72, exceeding 50c per dollar apply to that part of an individual's taxable income which exceeds $10,000. If the combined rates were limited to 50c per dollar and applied to the parts in excess of $10,000 of taxable incomes estimated for the 1971-72 income year, the resulting full-year loss to income tax revenue would be approximately $75m. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government grant an income tax exemption to interest paid by building societies and savings banks to people with a taxable annual income of less than $4,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give favourable consideration to a complete remission of telephone rental charged for public telephones installed in Nursing Homes. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Public telephones are telephones installed in street locations, or associated with Post Office buildings, for the use of the general public and consequently do not incur a rental charge. 
I think the honourable senator's question may refer to telephone services leased by nursing homes caring for aged and invalid persons, where the telephone service is available for use by patients, visitors and employees on a coinintheslot basis. These are called leased coin telephones. 
Since nursing homes are usually run on business lines and patients are cared for on a fee paying basis, it would be very difficult to justify treating such organisations differently from other subscribers in the matter of telephone rental payments. To do so would assuredly lead to similar claims by others and where to draw the line would soon become impracticable. i am sorry, therefore, that 1 cannot assist in the way sought by the honourable senator, 1 might add that the operation of leased coin telephones is such that there is a small margin between the price payable to the Post Office for calls and the value of coins inserted to make them. This varies between 0.25c for local calls and up to 4c per three minutes on certain trunk calls, the latter being applicable only to multi-coin type telephones. This margin is retained by the lessee of the telephone service. Users of the tele phone, including visitors and employees, thus assist the lessee to a small degree to meet the rental charges payable for the telephone service. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of a chart showing income from government pensions, benefits and child endowment, which was printed by the University of Melbourne Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research and which compares income from pensions with the income required to reach the poverty line. The chart shows, amongst other things, that a single male pensioner requires an additional $5 a week to reach the poverty line,  and that an invalid pensioner with a wife and 2 children needs and additional $15 a week to reach the poverty line. Will the Minister say whether any early action is likely to be taken by the Government to help ease the burden of these people? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Does the same means test apply to old age pensions granted to people outside Australia asis applied to persons within Australia. 
How many such pensions are being paid at present. 
What is the cost of these pensions. 
How are alterations in means ascertained when people live overseas. 
Is income earned overseas assessed under the means test. 
Who periodically examines pensioners living outside Australia to ensure that their means have not altered. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Age pensions paid abroad are subject tothe same means lest. 
The number of age and invalid pensions being paid outside Australia or its external Territories at 30th June1971 was 1,186. These pensions are being paid to persons temporarily absent from Australia. The actual number of age pensions included in this figure is not available but is estimated to be in excess of 1,000. 
Age and invalid pensions paid abroad, excluding Australian territories, during 1970-71 amounted to approximately $685,600 of which an estimated $580,000 would be for age pensions. 
As for pensioners in Australia, changes in circumstances are ascertained by regular review. 
Yes. 
Review of pension entitlement is carriedout by officers of the Department of Social Services. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation conducting studies into the feasibility of marketing a grade of nearly equal quantities of unsaturated oil margarine and butter; if so, is there a demand for this type of product in Japan which Australia may be able to supply if the studies cun result in a satisfactory product. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Education and Science has supplied the following answer: 
CSIRO is not conducting studies into the feasibility of marketing a grade of nearly equal quantities of unsaturated oil margarine and butter. However, the Division of Animal Physiology and the Dairy Research Laboratory of the Division of Food Research have initialed collaborative studies on the production  of  dairy products containing substantially increased levels of polyunsaturated milkfat, including fresh milk, cream, butter, cheese and yoghurt'. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry say whether the Government proposes to give assistance to the Tasmanian fruit canning companies? If so, does he have any idea when? If a reply is not available will the Minister endeavour to obtain the information before the Senate concludes this session? 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation say whether his Department has considered widening the hire car franchise at airports to allow at least one other competing firm? Will the Minister say what is the percentage of Australian ownership of the holder of the present franchise? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost to the Government of air travel within Australia by Commonwealth Public Servants in the years ending 30th June 1970 and 30th June 1971. 
Is more use of economy air travel made by government and parliamentary officers in the United States of America, than is the case in Australia. 
Which Commonwealth Government employees are not eligible for first class air travel in Australia when travelling on Government business. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The Prime Minister has advised me as follows: 
The Treasury has advised that the cost within Australia and its Territories of such travel was: 
1969- 70- $7,464,503 
1970- 71- $8,004,628 
These figures include the cost of air travel by employees under the Public Service Act, the Supply and Development Act, the Naval Defence Act and the Trade Commissioners Act and other departmental employees. Also included is the cost met by the Commonwealth of air fares of persons travelling for interview for departmental positions and of wives and children of Commonwealth Government employees. The cost of air travel by employees of the Papua New Guinea Administration and members of the Defence Forces is not included. These figures do not include costs incurred by the Department of Air as the costs for that Department on the above basis are not available. 
On the information available to the Public Service Board, it would appear that more use is made of economy air travel by government and parliamentary officers in the United States of America than in Australia. 
The Public Service Board has advised that male occupants of the following designations are, in normal circumstances ineligible under Public Service Regulation 84 for first class air travel in Australia whilst travelling on duty: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration: In view of the lack of jobs available for Australian graduates, as revealed by the number of applications for graduate employment recently refused by the Public Service, which is typical of the rest of the community, will the Minister say whether the Government intends to continue to allow overseas graduates access to Australia or can some more sensible restriction be applied to graduate immigration until the present Australian graduate surplus is employed? 
1 preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, by reminding him that on the 27th of last month the Leader of the Government in the Senate advised me by letter that the cost of Commonwealth Government air travel within Australia during 1970-71 was just over $8m. In that letter the Minister indicated that the Public Service Board was examining the question of economy air travel for Government employees in the light of possible savings. I ask: Has the Public Service Board come to a decision concerning economy air travel for Government employees? If not, when may such a decision be expected? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many trade missions have been sent abroad by the Commonwealth Government over the past two years with a view to increasing Australia's exports of apples and pears and which countries were visited. 
Are any future missions, with a similar aim, planned before 3 1st December 1973. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No trade missions with the sole aim of increasing Australia's export of apples and pears have been sent overseas by the Commonwealth Government over the past two years. However, four delegations from the Australian Apple and Pear Board have visited, during that period, the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States of America in connection with freight rates, shipping and marketing matters. The General Manager of the Board visited the United Kingdom in May 1970 to conduct a market survey, and the Board Chairman is presently visiting the United Kingdom and Europe with a delegation from the Overseas Trade Publicity Committee. Visits and delegations of the kind referred to above, would within the general charter given them, be alert for any opportunities to expand markets or to follow up opportunities to increase exports. 
At this stage there are no missions planned before 31st December 1973. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the serious economic effect that the announced new fares on Australian National Line ships to Tasmania will have on that State and in view of the way that these rises will further disadvantage residents of Tasmania, will the Minister ask the ANL to retain the fares at the old level while the situation is investigated with a view to giving Tasmania some form of preferential treatment by means of an ANL subsidy? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. In view of the serious position in which many fishermen have been placed following the ban on the sale of the bulk of shark flesh, will the Minister say whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has investigated the permanently potential catches of fish from eastern Australian waters according to species, the mercury content of these fish, and the likely damage, if any, to the Australian fishing industry by the establishment of the envisaged fishmeal industry on the east coast of Tasmania? 
Has the Minister for Health received any proposals from the National Health and Medical Research 
Council suggesting the listing on food labels of the names of chemicals used for colouring, preserving and flavouring those foods? If not, will he ask the Council for a report along those lines? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will seek some information from my Department on this question which is linked with the National Health and Medical Research Council. I am not fully briefed on the matter and, as honourable senators know, I always forbear from giving kerbstone opinions on matters of health without first getting the facts. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How long is it since the Department of Health carried out a survey into the nutritional needs of Australians. 
Has the Department ever investigated whether people on low incomes are financially capable of buying the food they need, from a health point of view, or are many suffering from malnutrition. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Department of Health conducted a Commonwealth-wide food consumption survey in 1944. 
No large dietary surveys have since been conducted but 3 smaller studies investigating the diets of nurses, young vegetarians, and pregnant and lactating women were undertaken between 1960 and 1963. 
No. I would regard the carrying out of surveys of this nature as being principally the responsibility of individual State Authorities. The activities of the Nutrition section of the Department of Health are currently related to certain nutritional problems in Aborigines. I understand that similar surveys are being carried out in some States. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Housing say whether any consideration has been given to establishing housing loans for low income families at extremely low interest rates which are more in line with the actual risk of the capital of the loans so that low income families can have some chance of eventually owning their own home? If not, will the Minister investigate the feasibility of such loans? 
I address my ques  tion to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport; In view of the statement of the Minister for Shipping and Transport on 8th August concerning the dumping of industrial waste, I ask: Does the Minister realise that ships of the Australian National Line dump their garbage very close to the shores of Australia? Will the Minister investigate the, possibility of insisting that this dumping be stopped and that ANL garbage is disposed of in a much more modern manner? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface my question by saying that there has been a lot of speculation that if the Government is returned to office after the Federal elections a budget may be brought down in February or March - at least before August next year - to remove the recent tax concessions. Can the Minister say that under no circumstances will the tax be re-applied during the period of the Budget? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. I preface it by saying that perhaps the Minister has heard comments such as 'Promises, promises' and That will be the day' about the Government's proposed action to remove the means test over 3 years. Will the Minister put these and similar comments at an end by saying when it is anticipated the legislation to remove the means test over 3 years will be introduced? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. What is the policy of the Department of Civil Aviation with regard to searching for lost aircraft and in what circumstances is the Royal Australian Air Force asked to assist in a search such as the one that is going on at present in Tasmania? 
I preface this question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing by saying that we all know how expensive houses are becoming in all States. In view of this will the Minister say whether any consideration has been given to making housing grants available to the States to enable them to acquire land for subdivision and for the provision of services to that land? Then the. land could be sold at cost in an attempt to stop the land price spiral. 
asked the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What are the likely dates of delivery of telephone directories to subscribers, for subscriber trunk dialling areas coded 002, 003 and 004. 
Will the Postmaster-General reconsider whether there is a need for 3 telephone directories for use in the State of Tasmania. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Area Code 002: Week commencing 15th October 1972. Area Code 003: Week commencing 17th September 1972. Area Code 004: Week commencing 12th November 1972. 
The decision to restructure the former State-wide Tasmanian telephone directory was taken following a study of telephone usage which showed that the areas covered by many directories were much larger than required to meet the needs of the majority of the users of the directories. It was clearly indicated that directories of a more local character would generally meet subscribers' requirements adequately. 
Against this background,the cost of continuing to supply every telephone subscriber with a directory containing entries for areas with which there was little or no community of interest could not be justified, particularly when the majority of calls made by telephone users generally are to subscribers within their own particular district. 
Importantly, too, the changes made are a step towards orienting directory presentation to subscribers' needs under Subscriber Trunk Dialling (STD) conditions. In this regard, the extension of the automatic trunk network is based on each State being divided into a number of areas called closed number areas', with each area being identified by its own STD code. Subscribers making STD calls into such an area prefix the subscriber's number with the appropriate code, whereas calls between subscribers withinthe area involve dialling the subscriber's number only. In Tasmania, there are 3 such 'closed number areas' and each of the 3 current telephone directories covers its own 'closed number' area. 
Although it is not proposed to revert to the former practice of issuing one telephone directory for the Slate of Tasmania as a whole, arrangements have been made for subscribers having a need for a directory covering an area other their local one to obtain such books free of charge. The local Postmaster can assist in this regard. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. Doubtless the Minister is aware that his colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise has agreed that many of the drug running activities in Australia go undetected and that many drug takers are often forced to push drugs to pay for their own expensive habit. Therefore I ask the Minister: In this country what treatment is available, apart from imprisonment, for those convicted of drug taking? 
Is any treatment available without prosecution for those who request it? What action is the Government taking on a national scale to adopt something like the British method of rehabilitating drug users by supplying certain drugs free to addicts so that drug pushers have a more difficult job? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that the closing of a factory in Hobart at the end of November will result in the termination of jobs for another 105 people and that one of the reasons given is the continually increasing cost of freight from Tasmania? When will the Minister be in a position to advise of any possibility of a freight subsidy between Tasmania and the other States in the light of present circumstances. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. No doubt the Minister is aware that many subscriber trunk dialling calls are made more or less illegally from the telephones of businesses, government departments and private individuals. Will the Minister say what action is being taken to enable people renting telephones from the Postmaster-General's Department to be supplied with an account that will show the number that is called, the duration, the charge and the date of the call, as is already done in some other countries? Does the Minister feel that the subscriber has a right to know accurately for what he is being charged? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health, follows the one asked by  Senator McAuliffe.  In view of the recent reports about the unfitness of many young Australians, will the Minister say whether he will request the Government to make immediate additional grants to the States, via the National Fitness Council or in some other way, for the establishment of multi-purpose community sports centres, such as basketball stadiums, because no State has enough of these centres to cater for the community need? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are Australian citizens resident in the Territory of Papua New Guinea, who are members of recognised medical and hospital funds, precluded from receiving Commonwealth benefits on claims made on the funds; if so, will the Acting Minister take whatever action is necessary to ensure that this anomalous situation is rectified. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Acting Minister for Health has provided the fol lowing answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under the National Health Act, Commonwealth benefits are payable for medical and hospital expenses incurred during the temporary absence in Papua New Guinea of an Australian resident who is a member of a registered medical or hospital benefits organisation. 
The question whether a person who is overseas can be regarded as a resident of Australia is determined having regard to the circumstances of each case. However, a temporary absence is generally considered to be not more than 2 years. 
It is not proposed to change the present provisions of the legislation regarding the payment of Commonwealth benefits in these cases. 
 Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that Canada provides preferential taxation rates for Canadian owned companies? Has this Government ever investigated the possibility of adjusting company taxation dependent upon the percentage of Australian ownership so that the more the Australian ownership in a company the more preferential is the taxation treatment received by that company? 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation able to say whether his Department has considered asking the airlines to establish one-class aircraft flights which would carry more passengers and thereby lead possibly to a lowering of fares on those flights, particularly to Tasmania which is so dependent on air travel? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will the tree-pull scheme cause the destruction of the apple and pear industry in Tasmania? 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. The scheme which has been referred to as the tree-pull scheme is part of the Government's programme for the reconstruction of rural industries and supplements other Government assistance such as the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Scheme. Essentially it will provide to growers in financial difficulty assistance for the removal of trees where production levels are higher than the quantity that can be marketed profitably. Present market circumstances and cost increases are have a weakening effect on the industry. The purpose of the scheme is to provide assistance to growers to alleviate their financial difficulties so that the long term viability of the industry can be restored. 
I present the following petition from 6 Citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That,to allow true religious freedom, Governments will make no law respecting religion, neither to prohibit the free exercise thereof nor to compel the individual citizen to support the religion of others. 
That nearly all non-State schools are church schools which to a greater or lesser degree promote a specific creed. 
That, about 80 per cent of church schools are Roman Catholic schools, which Roman Catholic spokesmen explicitly state to be extensions of their church. 
That, the use of Commonwealth funds to aid church schools compels every taxpayer to finance the religion of others, whether he wishes to. or not. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will restore to the Australian people true religious freedom, which can exist only when Church and Slate are legally separated both in form and substance. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Similar petitions were presented by Senators Wriedt and Murphy. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health, More rightly it might come within the province of the Minister for Social Services. I preface the question by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that capital grants are made by the Federal Government towards the establishment of hostel training centres for retarded children. However, is the Minister aware that the running costs of these hospitals is becoming an increasing burden and that the gap between Government assistance, together with voluntary aid and the total running costs is becoming extremely difficult to cover? Will he say when some increase in Federal Government assistance can be expected in the way of a major increase in the Commonwealth bed rate subsidy? 
Of course, that question also concerns policy. As the honourable senator points out, there is an inter-change of administrative responsibility between the Department of Social Services and my own Department, the Department of Health. I would like to put this aspect of the honourable senator's question to study and respond to it tomorrow. In relation to the generality of increased governmental aid, from whatever source it comes, that is a matter of policy and I would not be able to reflect upon it at this time. I will certainly put the detail of the question to study this afternoon, have it processed and no doubt respond to it tomorrow. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is the apple and pear industry in Tasmania in clanger  of  total collapse. 
Can Tasmania afford to lose an industry  of  such a magnitude. 
Will the Minister confer with the Minister for Shipping and Transport in an endeavour  to  obtain a shipping subsidy  for  the industry. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The situation of an industry in a particular Slate is primarily a matter for the State Government concerned. 
The Australian apple and pear industry faces very serious problems in the export field and since the Tasmanian sector of the industry is geared primarily for export, these problems have special significance for the industry in that State. 
An assessment of the position of the industry in relation to the economy of the State of Tasmania is a matter for the State Government. 
Overall responsibility for overseas shipping policy rests with the Minister for Trade and Industry, who advises that as a matter of policy the Government expects shipping services in its overseas trades to operate on a commercial basis. The Government's aim is that shipping services should be adequate, economic and efficient and this is generally not assisted by subsidisation. Our principal Southern Hemisphere competitors in the European apple and pear market do not subsidise freight rates and any move by the Australian Government to introduce a subsidy could well result in retaliatory action which could place the Australian apple and pear industry in a less competitive position. The Commonwealth Government's concern at the serious export problems of the Australian industry has been manifested by the provision of substantial financial assistance to the export sector, initially through devaluation compensation and since 1971 through a5-year Stabilisation Plan. An amount of $2.6m was provided to the export sector under the plan for the 1971 season, and a provision of$3. 15m has been made in the current Budget to support the 1972 season exports under the Plan. Additional assistance will also be available to the industry through the recently introduced Fruit-growing Reconstruction Scheme. 
The special problems of the industry, including its freight difficulties, are under examination by a Sub-Committee of the Australian Agricultural Council. The Commonwealth is an active participant in the work of the Sub-Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What action is being taken by the PostmasterGeneral's Department to provide telephone subscribers with an account which would indicate each telephone number called, together with details of the duration, cost and date of each call as is being done in certain other countries. 
Does the Postmaster-General agree that a telephone subscriber has a right to know accurately the reasons for charges made to his account. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are no plans to provide lists of call details for local calls, within Australia or any other country in the world. Details of trunk calls made through the operator have always been and will continue to be provided on request at a nominal charge. With the multi-metering system we have in Australia, lists of STD call details cannot be provided. 
The multi-metering system is similar to systems used in the great majority of countries in the world where subscribers are able to dial their own trunk calls directly. A notable exception is the U.S.A. and Canada where the system does provide for a printed record to be made of each directly dialled trunk call, but the charges for calls are precisely the same as for operator connected calls i.e. a minimum of 3 minutes. Therefore the cost savings to subscribers available from the multi-metering system, where charges are more closely related to the actual duration of the call, are lost to the subscribers in those countries. 
There arc basic differences in the type of telephone exchange equipment in Australia which preclude, at present, adoption of the automatic ticketing system used in North America. If it were decided to introduce this system in Australia, it would take a good many, years to carry out the necessary modifications to the existing equipment. 
Yes and this is done to the extent practicable within the limits of our present system. 
Yesterday I asked the Minister for Health a question concerning a possible major increase in the bed rate subsidy to assist the running of hostels for retarded children. The Minister for Health was good enough to say that a reply might be forthcoming today. I ask the Minister whether he has been able to obtain the information that I requested. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, I did seek some information to confirm my own thoughts at the time. This is an administrative matter within the area of the Department of Social Services. Nevertheless, I sought background information so that I could avoid the necessity for another question to be asked of the responsible Minister. I have obtained that information for the honourable senator. The Department of Social Services is responsible for the administration of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 which is designed to give capital assistance on a $2 for a $1 basis to approved institutions which provide residential accommodation and/ or training for the various kinds of physically and mentally handicapped children. I understand that since the introduction of this Act the Commonwealth has approved expenditure totalling approximately $4m to approved organisations. 
The other form of financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth in respect of handicapped children is a benefit of $1.50 a day, which was introduced in January 1969, and which is made under the provisions of the National Health Act for which I am responsible. It is payable in respect of children under 16 years of age who are accommodated and cared for in homes approved under the Act. So the Department of Health had a secondary administrative function. This benefit applies to both the physically and mentally handicapped and is payable to homes conducted by charitable and religious organisations. As at 30th June this year total benefits paid by the Commonwealth under this scheme amounted to some$1. 4m. 
The recommendations contained in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on the physically and mentally handicapped have some bearing on the points raised by the honourable senator, and these recommendations are currently under examination by the Government. Yesterday the honourable senator posed certain questions which related to policy matters, and quite obviously I cannot comment on policy matters at question time. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. In the interest of materially assisting the many low income earners in Australia to become home owners, will the Minister say what consideration has been given to making all or part of the interest paid on a loan for the first home a tax deduction, and will he note that such action would help those who most need assistance in this matter of buying a home? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasure!. Is the Minister aware that in many countries a great number of people save coins - I do not mean 10c and 20c pieces; I mean larger coins - and that the people who do save newly minted coins outlay a great deal of money for coins that are immediately removed from circulation? Is he aware that in Canada a one dollar piece is struck each year but that on special occasions a silver dollar is minted and sold at a premium? Has the Government considered this possibility and thought of how popular its coins could become and how they could be used at places like the Hobart Casino? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. In view of the many complaints received by the Postmaster-General and some members of this chamber from subscribers who doubt the accuracy of their telephone accounts, will the Minister take whatever action he can urgently to start the installation of some type of automatic billing system for telephone accounts so that the details of all subscriber trunk dialling charges ase supplied to subscribers? Is he aware that early attention to this matter is desirable, because no doubt any modifications will take a fair deal of time to carry out? 
 I ask a question of the Minister for Health: Towards the end of August J askedhim why the payment of$1 4 a week to a person caring for a chronically ill relative was to be delayed until March 1973 and why the payment could not be started much earlier.I raised these queries in question No. 2405 on notice. Will the Minister say whether a reply will be available before the lifting of Parliament? 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General say what recourse members of the public have against the might of the PostmasterGeneral's Department when they feel that they have been overcharged due to inaccurate mechanisms in the PostmasterGeneral's Department? Will the Minister say whether consideration has been given to more frequent billing than the present 6-monthly system? To put at rest the public feeling that all is not well within the PMG charging system, will the Minister say how many objections to PMG accounts have been received by the PMG over the last 6 months? Finally, will the Minister say whether it would not be possible to install a meter in line with the telephone in a person's home so that he can monitor the charges for his calls? 
I would like to ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. The Minister may recall that a couple of weeks ago I asked a question concerning the possibility of one class flights in Australia as a means of reducing costs of travel. I now ask: Will the Minister ask his Department to show some initiative and request of Trans-Australia Airlines a submission showing the feasibility of single class aircraft flights as many people feel this is rightly an area where his Department should show some leadership in the public interest? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Will he say what frequencies are to be used for frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia, what advantages these frequencies have and whether any other countries use these frequencies for FM broadcasting? Will he also say whether persons presently owning sets capable of receiving FM will be able to use these sets or whether they are readily modifiable? Is he aware that many electronic engineers, myself included, feel that the Australian FM frequency should be the same as in other areas of the world as this would enable the production of both cheaper and more suitable receiving sets of already tested design? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, ls the Minister aware that there seems to be a long delay in the granting of rural reconstruction funds to some applicants in Tasmania? Will he take whatever action is necessary to speed up the processing so that farmers who are dependent upon these grants will be able to use them economically? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has  a  psychiatrist ever been appointed as  a  member  of  the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee. 
What percentage of self-poisonings in Australia has been caused by the taking of tricyclic anti-depressant tablets or capsules. 
Would50 tricyclic anti-depressant tablets or capsules, if taken at a single occasion, be lethal. 
What financial savings to the Commonwealth are expected to result from the compulsory reduction in the number of tricyclic antidepressant tablets or capsules available on prescription. 
What additional costs will be borne by persons for whom tricyclic anti-depressants have been prescribed by way of additional prescription charges. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No. 
The exact percentage of self-poisonings in Australia caused by the taking of tricyclic antidepressant tablets or capsules is not known. In 1971, a total of 3,404 cases of poisoning described as 'suicidal' were reported to the National Poisons Service; of these12 per cent were due to tricyclic anti-depressant drugs. 
Such an intake could be lethal, depending on the age of the person, and the circumstances and availability of treatment. In a publication entitled 'Poisons - Emergency Treatment', which was produced by the Safety Promotion Committee of the Canadian Paediatric Society and was published by the authority of the Canadian Minister of National Health and Welfare, it is stated that, although the lethal dosage is unknown, survivals have been reported with 70 milligrammes per kilogram of body weight and deaths with 20 milligrammes per kilogram of body weight. 
There is not expected to be any significant effect on Commonwealth expenditure on tricyclic anti-depressants in 1972-73 following the reduction in the maximum quantity and number of repeats. This arises from the fact that, while it is expected that there will be a reduction in the number of tablets andcapsules supplied, there are the offsetting effects of the increased overall packaging costs in reducing the pack size from 100 to 50 and the additional cost of packaging these drugs in strip-packaging. The new form of packaging has been adopted following reports of the high incidence of child poisonings from the ingestion of quantities of tricyclic anti-depressants. 
No additional costs are being borne by patients eligible for pensioner pharmaceutical benefits. Persons covered by the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan are now required to contribute 50 cents for each supply of 50 tablets or capsules of tricyclic anti-depressants instead of the 100 formerly supplied. The remaining patients are now required to contribute$1 for each supply of 50 tablets or capsules instead of the 100 formerly supplied. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services whether he is aware that many people are deeply disturbed by the fact that the Government has not yet introduced legislation to effect the removal of the means test within 3 years and that many see the decision to establish yet another inquiry te decide the best way to abolish the means test as the possible start of more dithering and procrastination by the Government? Finally, does the Minister not feel that the departmental experts could easily follow examples well known in other countries and bring this country into line? 
I preface my question which is directed to the Minister for Health by saying that no doubt he has seen recent reports by the co-discoverer of the diabetic drug insulin that there is a shortage of the drug in some countries. Is there any danger of a shortage of insulin in Australia? If so, what action is being taken to overcome the shortage? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI can say quite clearly that there is no shortage of insulin in Australia. Indeed, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories are exporting insulin products to the United Kingdom and South East Asian countries. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What percentage of air navigation charges is levied upon domestic airlines. 
What percentage of the charges is paid by Qantas Airways Limited. 
What percentageof the charges is paid by international airlines, other than by Qantas Airways Limited. 
What is the amount of revenue anticipated to be collected from the charges for the year 1972-73. 

 Senator COTTON- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: (1). (2) and (3) The amounts payable by the various airlines in the last three years are shown in the 1.971-72 Annual Report of the Minister for Civil Aviation presented to Parliament recently. The percentages in 1971-72 were as follows: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Is it generally admitted by the Government that some means tested benefits and pensions are underclaimed? Has the Government any plans, other than by Press advertisements, to ensure that persons eligible for pensions claim what is rightfully due to them? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Why will the payment of $14 a week to a person caring for a chronically ill relative be delayed until March 1973. 
Why could not the payment referred to in (1) be introduced prior to March 1973. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation say whether a veteran from Vietnam, who  lost parts of both his legs during his 96 days in Vietnam, has had his $1,000 per annum retirement benefit stopped because he is now able to earn more than two thirds of his original Army pay, which was $5 1 a week? If so, will he take steps to grant the $1,000 per annum as an act of grace or some other payment which cannot be reduced so that other injured veterans do not have their desire to improve themselves reduced? 
Before I ask my question,  Mr President,  I wish to indicate that I do appreciate the way in which you always recognise me. I was a little critical that the other side today had 3 or 4 questions consecutively. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the flooding of Lake Pedder in southern Tasmania is unnecessary from an engineering point of view and that the lowering of the water level by a few feet would save the lake and not materially reduce the amount of power generated? In view of the recent decision to use wood sleepers instead of concrete sleepers in the construction of thetransAustralia railway a decision which some people hold was made with employment in an area of Western Australia in mind will the Minister ask Cabinet to investigate granting a sum of approximately$9m to Tasmania for the explicit purpose of the building of a channel around Lake Pedder, which would enable the lake to be saved, would not interfere unduly with the production of power and, importantly, would create employment and goodwill in southern Tasmania? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn my role as Leader of the Government in the Senate and in representing the various portfolios that I do, I am brought into areas of controversy quite frequently. It would be a brave man who would steam into the Lake Pedder issue, which, I understand, is a matter of some disputation in the Apple Isle. All I can do is have this question, insofar as Commonwealth intercession or Commonwealth aid are involved, referred to the relevant department. I cannot make any comment on its merits. 

 - Mr President, I should like to ask you a question. In view of the fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission now broadcasts until midnight and that many people would like to hear the parliamentary broadcasts for as long as possible, would you call a meeting of the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings in due course so that longer broadcasting of Parliament, including any adjournment debates, may be heard? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Will the Minister ask the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to reconsider the frequencies to be used for frequency modulation transmission in Australia and examine in particular the frequency range 92-94 megahertz? Is the Minister aware that the adoption of this frequency range would allow 10 FM stations? I point out that very few overseas cities have more than 10 FM stations. If this range is chosen those people who already have FM sets will be able to use them in Australia. Will the Minister also ask the Broadcasting Control Board to avoid using television Channel 5 until this matter is resolved because this channel might interfere with FM broadcasting in the frequency range which I mentioned. 
 As a member of the Independent back bench - I will be leader if the good doctor does not turn up a bit more often - I would like to spend a few moments mentioning my appreciation to the many groups of people and individuals in Parliament House who have helped during this parliamentary year. Perhaps I could start by thanking the Australian Broadcasting Commission staff and the Joint House staff who do a great job behind the glass and behind the scenes. The journalists, too, I feel deserve some recognition. They have a lot to sit through and I do not know how they do it. I thank them for the friendly and fierce reports I have had. I thank the Hansard staff for their accurate reporting, particularly when taking from my scrawl; I am amazed at the quality of their work. I should like to mention the dining room staff and to thank them for the good steaks and orange juices. I thank the Library staff for their good and bad books. To the other staff, attendants and transport officers I say Thank you all' for your help and consideration. 
To  Senator Bonner  I say. I think you have been a credit to your race and to this Parliament. I am proud to know you and I wish you well. To all honourable senators from both sides and to other members of the independent back bench, present and absent, I say: Your tolerance and help has been appreciated and I offer you my best wishes and good will for the coming Christmas season even though it is a fair way off. Finally,  Mr President,  I feel that we all owe you a debt of gratitude for the dignity and tolerance that you have shown to us all and especially to myself. 
Will the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General say whether it would be possible for linesmen in the Postmaster-General's Department to connect their portable telephones to the telephone lines of a private subscriber and make a local or STD call and so lumber the unsuspecting telephone renter with an account that is not rightly his and would not be detectable at a later date? Will the Minister say whether it would be possible for the telephone of, say, a building site or some other temporary telephone to be connected to the wrong line and so record calls against the wrong renter - again being undetectable when tests were made after the line was disconnected? Docs the Minister feel, as many Australians do, that the Australian telephone system is one of the most expensive in the world and that it is robbing many persons who have no comeback against the might of the PMG? 
I  ask a question of the Leader of the Government. Will the Government make a statement as to its attitude to the employment of relatives by honourable members, honourable senators and Ministers in secretarial or other positions capable of being held by members of the Public Service? Will the Government also make a statement about the rules concerning the use of Commonwealth cars for private purposes by Ministers in their home States? 
My question is  directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In view of the fact that from next month the cost of the contraceptive pill will be reduced, will the Minister consider reducing the cost of other medicines available under the national health scheme from $1 per itemto 40c or 50c per item so that other people, many of whom arc much more ill than those on the pill, will be able to afford their medicines a little more easily, particularly those who need to take a lot of medicine regularly? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware that a family with 4 children would receive child endowment of $5.75 a week and yet if, due to divorce, the family were divided into 2 groups with each parent, looking after 2 children, each group would receive only $1.50 a week - a total of $3? In other words, is the Minister aware that at a time when the need for endowment is greater, less is actually given to each parent? Will he take action to remedy this situation? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister may remember that last year I questioned the then Minister for 
Civil Aviation about the possibility of improving the facilities at Hobart airport. I now ask whether the new Minister has given any thought to any alterations and additions to the Hobart airport buildings? Secondly, has he investigated the possibility of raising the landing and take-off capabilities so that Hobart will be able to handle international flights? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the announcement by Qantas Airways Ltd that an air fare of some S300 for flights between Australia and the United Kingdom may soon be possible, will the Minister take urgent steps to reduce air fares in Australia, perhaps by reducing the duty on aviation spirit and by establishing one-class flights within Australia, so that the travelling public can be persuaded to 'see Australia first'? In view of the fact that more than 50 per cent of people do not smoke, will the Minister give a lead to the transport industry by asking Trans-Australia Airlines to reverse the process of requiring non-smokers to ask for special seats and to set aside seats for smokers which would need to be requested or else to ban smoking in aircraft altogether? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that at the moment the cost of television and radio licences is the same throughout the country, irrespective of the number of radio or television stations transmitting in a particular area. Will the Minister take steps to reduce the cost of the licence in areas such as Tasmania where a limited number of radio and television stations may be received, thus making the cost proportionate to the number of stations which can be selected? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. In view of the fact that working women who receive pay and status equal to that of a male worker can retire at age 60 years and receive the old age pension, when equal pay becomes the rule in this country will the Minister consider reducing the retiring age for the male to 60 years instead of the present 65 years? This would seem particularly fair when we consider that women outlive men. Therefore, males should be allowed to retire first so that they can have an equal number of years of leisure before they totally retire. 
 I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. ls the Government aware that a large number of Australian people are becoming worried about the amount of Government spending that has been promised since this Government came to office? Will the Minister say what the extra expenditure is expected to be this financial year? What is the expected deficit for this financial year? What thought is being given to the effect of this Government spending on inflation and what is the expected rate of inflation for this financial year? 
Will the Minister for  Repatriation  examine the possibility of paying persons who left national service last year for the period between their discharge and the commencement of their study at school or university? I refer particularly to those in Tasmania, as many of them had difficulty in obtaining employment during the period that I have mentioned. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the apple and pear industry in Tasmania is facing widespread distress and that unless adequate compensation is made for the huge losses due to currency revaluations, a complete collapse of the industry is feared? When will the Minister be able to announce to the Senate an answer to the problems faced by this industry because further delay may make certain a dramatic collapse of the industry at the end of the present harvest? 
I am rather glad to have the opportunity to indicate early in the administration of the new Government what I believe should be the attitude of an Independent senator now that the people of Australia have elected a new government. There can be no doubt that a rather small majority of Australian voters showed its disenchantment with the LiberalCountry Party Administration and desired that the Labor Party be given a chance to govern. I have previously stated that I believe that the Senate primarily is a House of review and a place where all States should have an equal say. It follows that honourable senators should deal with all legislation on its merits. As far as I am concerned, the effect of legislation on Tasmania's welfare will be my paramount consideration. This may be an oversimplification of the position because many Bills that come before us contain points for and against. But in cases in which there is doubt about which way my vote will be cast, I think it is reasonable to side with the Government. Unless a measure is dangerous, illconsidered or against my State's best interests, it is likely that my vote will be with this new Government. Tonight my vote will be with the Government. 
Is the Minister for Repatriation aware that ex-national service personnel who attend full-time study at public expense receive about  $50  a week for  1  year, plus a certain amount for fees and books but that a part-time student receives only his fees and an allowance for books for  2  years? Does he agree that it appears that the full-time student gets much more public support than the part-time student? Will he examine the possibility of extending the number of years for which a part-time student may attend to his studies? 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer say what new orders have been given to officers of the Taxation Office with a view to collecting any outstanding tax at an earlier time than has been the practice in the past? Is the Government in such an urgent need of money due to its recent spending that it must go to the extent of demanding such rapid tax payments as may send some people bankrupt? Finally, are repayments from the Taxation Office being held up because the Government does not have the money to repay what is owed to many taxpayers throughout Australia? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that some Australian citizens are worried about the fact that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation will now be isolated from security information from many quarters of the world due to the recent visit, raid or call it what you will, on ASIO headquarters by the Attorney-General? Is he prepared to advise the Senate whether such isolation is occurring and is he prepared to back up his statement by telling the chamber the number of letters and cables which were received from overseas per day prior to the raid and the number received per day since the raid? 
 I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. No doubt the Minister is aware that the postage rate for an airmail letter to Canada and the United States of America is 30c Australian but that the cost to a Canadian to post a similar letter to Australia is 15c of a smaller dollar. Will the Minister ask that all postage rates be reviewed as soon as possible, particularly overseas airmail rates? 
My views on parliamentary salaries and allowances were made quite forcefully last year. The reasons for my views are quite simple. Firstly, when we offered ourselves for election or re-election each of us knew the conditions of service. Presumably we were willing to accept them. I feel that we should abide by those conditions until the people agree to any increase. I feel that no parliament should propose changes in salaries or allowances during its own period of office. Any rises should apply only to the next parliament so that the people will have a chance to say whether they think the increases are warranted. Secondly, last year when salary increases were being considered, the timing was most inappropriate. Cases were before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which could have been influenced by our action in Parliament. There were definite signs of inflation and pensioners had been given a miserly increment in the previous Budget. 
The total amount involved in parliamentary increases is not great when compared with the total cost of government but that is not the point. The psychological effect on the nation of an increase in parliamentary salaries last year would have been much more important. I was pleased to see the Government decide against an increase at such a time. In effect the Government did the right thing in postponing consideration of this matter until now. To have clamoured for an increase last year would have set the wrong example for a nation which was faced with inflation and many other troubles. Some of those problems are still with us and I feel that such a huge rise now will be wrong. Compared with the situation in some other countries, our salaries are not high but let us not forget that compared with some other countries our social service payments also are not high. In my view we should first see to it that pensioners and superannuants have their lives made a lot easier before we talk about salary increases. Any increases should apply only after the next election. I am pleased to see that legislation will be introduced to remove the review of our wages from the Parliament. I hope that this is done soon. I have committed myself to the people of Tasmania on this matter and will keep my word by declaring my opposition to this Bill. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the fact that both Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia have been able to reduce air fares from Tasmania by 40 per cent during Easter and in view of the small number of passengers who choose to travel first class to and from Tasmania, has the Minister asked TAA to investigate lower cost one class flights to and from Tasmania on a permanent basis even if the permanent reduction cannot be as high as 40 per cent? If he has not asked, will he do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that working women who receive pay and status equal to that of a male worker can retire at age 60 years and receive the old age pension, when equal pay becomes the rule inthis country will the Minister consider reducing the retiring age for the male to age 60 years instead of the present 65 years? This would seem particularly fair when we consider that women outlive men. Therefore, males should be allowed to retire first so that they can have an equal number or years of leisure before they totally retire? 

 Senator McCLELLAND- The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I suggest that while there definitely seems merit in suggestion the practice is long established whereby males retire at 65 and females at 60, and it would scarcely be acceptable to the community to reverse the situation as suggested by the senator. It would be preferable if there was to be any change in the retiring age to reduce the retiring age of males to 60 as a matter of voluntary retirement. However, this is  a  matter that requires  a  major policy decision and  I  can give no undertaking at this stage. 
I feel that we are all indebted to  Senator Wood  for a balanced, quietly presented and sensible contribution to this debate which has gone on for a long time. During the last week we heard a great deal about the actions and nonactions of  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Greenwood.  This debate has developed very much along Party lines. I would suspect that a great number of Australian people will have become confused as to what actually happened and did not happen concerning the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in relation to this Croatian matter. In my view, the statement which was made by  Senator Murphy  a week or so ago became almost entirely a personal attack on  Senator Greenwood,  a gentleman for whom I have a very high regard. I feel that  Senator Greenwood  very effectively rebutted the allegations made against him when he spoke to us at length yesterday. I feel that  Senator Murphy  was hasty and unwise to say and do many of the things that he has said and done over the last weeks. Perhaps he has been badly advised. Certainly  Senator Murphy  has not done any good at all to the very important position of Attorney-General. 
I feel that the action of  Senator Murphy  has done ASIO considerable damage which need not have been done. At a time when our relations with many overseas nations are at a low ebb,  Senator Murphy's  hasty raid on ASIO has further damaged our international situation by reducing the volume of information that we receive from overseas via ASIO. I am not saying these things behind  Senator Murphy's  back; I said them to his face a day or 2 ago. Regarding the amendments moved by  Senator Withers,  I do feel that the arguments that we have heard in this chamber have shown each section of that motion to be worthy of my support. With section (e) I agree wholeheartedly. Migrants particularly have become fearful of the knock on the door in the middle of the night because many have come from a police state; they remember the fear that they held in Europe or their home country and they do not want it here - nor do we native born Australians. 
I believe that  Senator Murphy's  action in this case is so serious that he deserves to be reprimanded - and to be reprimanded in the strongest way. I will therefore support this amendment. 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister able to say whether the Government, with a view to saving money, has looked at the possibility of having most public servants travel economy class on aircraft in Australia, instead of first class as is now the practice? Will the Minister say whether, if the Government is not prepared to ask the Public Service to travel economy class on all flights, it will direct the Public Service Board to ask that travel on economy class be taken on flights of short duration where the scheduled flight is, say, of about  2i  hours? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister say when the legislation to reduce the means test progressively is to be introduced? When the means test has been removed, will the Government consider also removing the requirement that superannuation contributions in the Public Service be compulsory so that members of the Public Service may choose other ways of saving if they want to do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Treasurer aware that a large number of Australian citizens are becoming worried by the amount of Government spending that has been promised since the Labor Government came into office; if so, (a) what is the anticipated extra expenditure in this financial year, and (b) what is the anticipated deficit for this financial year. 
What considerations are being given to the effect on inflation of increased Government spending. 
What is the anticipated rate of inflation for this financial year. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Treasurer has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
No. For the information of the honourable senator, however, the measures the present Government has taken are presently estimated to add about $172m (net) to expenditures this year. A list of the expenditure decisions taken up till the end of January, together with their costs or savings as estimated at that time, was presented in the January issue of the Treasury Information Bulletin. The chief addition to the list presented in the Treasury Information Bulletin has resulted from the subsequent decision to implement the recommendations of the Woodward Committee on Service pay and conditions. As to the magnitude of the budget deficit' expected for 1972-73, this was estimated in the Treasury Information Bulletin article referred to as $958m. Subsequent changes in the figuring, including those referred to above, will have served to increase that figure somewhat further. 
The effects of Government spending on inflation and on the economy generally are given careful consideration by the Government. 
Inflation will remain a problem through this financial year. It is not possible, however, to forecast accurately the precise rate of increase in prices. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the confusion which occurred at Hobart Airport during the Easter holiday break due to the poor facilities at the Hobart terminal? Will he say when some action will be taken to update this terminal so that the increasing number of travellers to Tasmania can have more room and a little more comfort in a modern terminal? 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware that many people in Tasmania and other parts of Australia are still most annoyed by the way they are being incorrectly charged by the Postmaster-General's Department due to apparent errors in subscriber trunk dialling charges and that even when these people complain to the Department it is almost impossible to obtain satisfaction? Will the Minister investigate the STD complaints in Tasmania in order to ascertain whether they are, as I suspect, more numerous than the national average? If necessary, will he appoint a special investigator for the Tasmanian region so that subscribers there who have been overcharged will receive a fair go? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. I preface it by saying that yesterday he said, in reply to a question about subscriber trunk dialling overcharging, that sometimes subscribers were confused as to whether their call was an STD one or not and that a warning device was being considered by the PostmasterGeneral. Will the Minister say whether the Postmaster-General has considered making all calls within the 02 area for Sydney, the 03 area for Melbourne, and so on - all calls from a telephone within an area to another telephone within that area - local calls which would immediately remove much subscriber confusion? Will he also say whether the PostmasterGeneral is considering a warning message just at the commencement of a call or a beep' each time a local call unit is recorded? Finally, will he say what action is being taken by the Postmaster-General to provide the subscriber with information, such as the numbers called and the date and duration of STD calls, when his account is sent out? 
Earlier todayI asked a question of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General concerning subscriber trunk dialling telephone call charges. I now ask: Has the Minister any further information concerning the making of all calls within a particular STD zone area local calls? Will the way of indicating that a call is an STD call be by a single message or a beep each time a local call unit is registered? Is a new billing system likely so that people will be able to see the date, time and number of any STD call? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Department of Health made any progress towards insisting that any chemicals used in colouring, flavouring and preserving foodstuffs are listed on the label by their accepted chemical names and percentages so that people may have some idea of what chemicals they are now unwittingly consuming? 
We have heard quite a lot from the Australian Labor Party about the urgent matters that the Government has to bring before the Senate. Whilst the Senate has a duty to act as a States protection House, I feel that it has no right to become  a  continuous stumbling block to legislation that the Government, by its majority in the other House' - no matter how small - has a right to implement. I feel that the Government should be allowed to deal with legislation that it deems fit to be dealt with, and with that in mind I can see no reason why the matter under discussion now cannot be dealt with on Thursday night, as is usual for General Business. In the setting up of any parliamentary committee I am in favour of slow, sensible and deliberate action. I do not feel that one day's delay will alter the situation in the setting up of this committee. So, I will vote so that Government Business will be proceeded with. Earlier today we heard  Senator Byrne  move the gag. I voted against the gag at that time because of the situation that had arisen. But I now feel that this matter has been thrashed out thoroughly. I will not move the gag, but I will support such action now. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland) - I rise  to- 
Subsequently, when  Senator Cavanagh  rose, 1 rose at the same time. Although I think that the call should have gone to an honourable senator on this side of the Senate, we both rose and the  Deputy President  saw and called  Senator Cavanagh.  1 indicated to  Senator Cavanagh  that 1 wanted to speak. I said: 'I will yield to you', or something like that.  Senator Cavanagh  said that he would yield to me. I accepted that yield. At that stage I had in mind to move the gag, which I subsequently did. I went on with my speech and at the end of the speech I moved 'That the quetion be now put'. At that stage I overlooked the fact that  Senator Cavanagh  had yielded to me. 
asked the Minister for  the  Media, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make it mandatory that in news broadcasts involving car accident reports, the make of the car involved be named so that the public will become aware of which cars are dangerous? 

 Senator McCLELLAND- While I appreciate the motives of  Senator Townley  in asking this question, I cannot accede to his request. 
Even had I the power implied by the question, such an interference by a Minister in the procedure for compiling any news reports could set an unwise precedent. I would also point out that such a procedure might not be fair in that the causes of car accidents are complex and most authorities agree the major factor involved is driver error. 
asked the Minister' for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister take steps to enable the wife of a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner who, in addition to his T &amp; PI pension, is in receipt of a service pension, to receive a pensioner medical card so that she may receive medicines on a repatriation prescription. 

 Senator BISHOP - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Under the provisions of the National Health Act, the administration of which is the responsibility of the Minister for Social Security, eligibility for pensioner medical service benefits ceases when a pensioner's means reach a certain limit. The limit applies to both Repatriation service pensions and social security means test pensions. 
The position is that the means limit applying to eligibility for pensioner medical service benefits is the subject of an agreement with the Australian Medical Association which has indicated in the past that it would not agree to any easing of the means limit for eligibility for pensioner medical service benefits. 

 Mr BIJEDIC: VISIT TO AUSTRALIA ' (Question No. 202) 

 Senator CARRICK asked' the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was a detailed biography of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia issued to the Australian Parliament and Press prior to the visit of  Mr Bijedic? 
Will the Minister make the document available to senators and members; if not, will the Minister arrange for the preparation and publication of a full biography of  Mr Bijedic,  including all official appointments which he has held during his adult years? 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No. 
The principal official appointments which the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia,  Mr Bijedic,  has previously held are given in the 1972-73 Edition of The International Who's Who. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware that many private nursing homes will be severely strained financially due to the national wage case decision of yesterday? Has the Government any plans to grant an immediate increase in approved nursing home fees to cover the increased costs? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. Will the Minister say whether any consideration has been given to enlarging both the buildings and the strips at Hobart Airport so that Boeing 707 and Douglas DC8 aircraft may land at Hobart direct from New Zealand and that visitors to Australia may visit Tasmania en route to the northern island? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer consider altering the sales tax legislation so that a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner when he purchases a motor vehicle, is not placed in the position of having to seek a refund. after paying the full price for the vehicle. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under item 135 in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act an exserviceman who is in receipt of a special Repatriation pension in respect of total and permanent incapacity is entitled to exemption from sales tax on a motor vehicle for his personal transportation. The legislation does not require that a pensioner should first pay the full price and then seek a refund of the sales tax. In fact the procedure followed in administering the exemption is designed to allow eligible persons to buy vehicles at tax-free prices. 
An eligible pensioner first obtains from the Repatriation Department a certificate which is submitted to the Commonwealth Taxation Office for approval of the exemption. The pensioner can then present this certificate to the motor dealer as authority for the dealer to sell a vehicle to the pensioner free of sales tax. 
My question is addressed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the sudden and salutary changes in the policy of the Government towards some of our near Asian neighbours, will the Government make a clear statement of its present attitude towards the 3 nearest countries, namely Indonesia, Singa  pore and Malaysia? In view of the Government's present obvious intention of disengagement from our near South East Asian neighbours, does it realise how it is nullifying the magnificent work done in South East Asia by the officers of the Foreign Affairs and Trade departments? As the policy of disengagement is sure to affect adversely trade with South East Asia, what plans does the Government have to compensate for the likely loss? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General examine the possibility of having only one telephone directory for the whole of Tasmania, rather than 3 as is the case at present. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Postmaster-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There were a number of factors involved in the introduction of revised Directory arrangements throughout the Commonwealth. Basically, the aim was to improve the utility value of directories by aligning the Directory coverage with trunk switching boundaries so that each book would contain an integrated alphabetical list of subscribers located within a community of interest who could call each other without the need for special dialling procedures. 
Nevertheless, these arrangements are currently under review. However, should it be decided to alter the present directory arrangement in Tasmania, there is not sufficient time to vary the 1973 books due for issue later this year. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General consider reintroducing for sale books of postage stamps. 
Why was the sale of books of postage stamps discontinued. 
How many books of postage stamps were sold during the last financial year. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Postmaster-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The recent decision to cease production of postage stamp booklets was reached only after  a  careful consideration of the various factors involved. 
The heavy costs of providing stamp booklets could not be justified in the light of the diminishing demand for them and an alternative facility of a stamp wallet has been developed and will be on sale shortly. 
The number of postage stamp booklets sold during 1971-72 was about 3.8 million. 
I  direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. No doubt he is aware that the recent national wage case decision will add from $800m to $900m to the national wage bill. Is the Minister yet able to indicate how much of that money paid out in wages to Australian workers will be collected by the Government in extra taxation? If not, will he make such figures available and public as soon as possible? 
I ask a question of the Minister for the Media in his capacity as Minister representing the Postmaster-General. It concerns frequency modulation broadcasts. Is the Minister yet able to say whether the present Government intends to introduce FM radio broadcasting on the frequencies which were decided upon by the previous Government or to adopt what would appear to be a more sensible plan and use the frequency bands which are used in most other areas of the world so that persons at present owning FM receivers will be able to use those sets and so that Australian manufacturers will be able to build FM sets relatively cheaply by using tested systems and circuitry? Finally, has the Government any plans to introduce FM at an earlier date than that previously announced? 
I direct a question to  the Minister representing the Minister for Health. No doubt the Minister will recall that earlier in this session I queried whether, in the light of the Government's decision which in effect reduced the prescription charge on the Pill to 50c, it would investigate the possibility of reducing to 50c also the prescription charge on all medicines required by people more genuinely ill than those on the Pill. Has the Government yet discussed this matter within its ranks? If so, what decision was reached? 
-LEY asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer examine the possibility of minting (a)a one dollar coin each year; and (b) a silver one dollar coin in special years for sale, at a premium, if necessary. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Currency Act does not provide for the issue of a coin above the value of 50c and an amendment to  the  Act would be required to allow the issue  of an  Australian dollar coin. While  the  minting  of a  dollar coin has been advocated by numismatists, there is no evidence of  a  public demand for such  a  coin. There is already  a  satisfactory series  of  coins with established designs, and  if a  dollar coin were issued it would in all probability  be of  interest only as a collector's item. The design and production  of  an Australian dollar coin would be  an  expensive process. In these circumstances an amendment to the Currency Act to allow for the minting of an Australian dollar coin each year would not seemto be warranted at this stage. 
A silver dollar coin would need to be sold at a premium because of the silver content and the coin would be solely a collector's item. It would be very difficult to estimate the demand for such a coin and the amount of the premium needed to cover the cost of the coin's design and production. Australia, like most countries, has produced very few special coins. Those produced in Australia have generally been restricted to the commemoration of important historical events, the most recent being the 50c Captain Cook Commemorative Coin in 1970. These commemorative coins all used the highest value coin on issue and were issued for general circulation. I am not proposing to follow up further at this stage the possibility of minting a silver dollar coin. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer consider removing the sales tax on chemicals used in swimming pools employed exclusively for training purposes and from which pool proprietors earn their livelihood. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is no general exemption from sales tax based on the use of goods for business purposes and many, classes of goods remain subject to tax when so used. There would not seem to be any sufficient reason for favouring persons engaged in this form of business activity over persons engaged in other forms of such activity. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Has the Government any plans for an immediate lift in pensions, before the end of this parliamentary session, to help compensate for the recent large increase in the cost of living? Is the Minister able to say whether pensioners are now effectively better off than they were' prior to the election of this Government? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation. Is it a fact that the First Assistant Commissioner, Appeals, of the Repatriation Commission has been visiting the various States and lecturing doctors on the composition of their section 48 opinions with a view to reducing the number of accepted claims? Is it a fact that the First Assistant Commissioner, Appeals, has had discussions with repatriation boards in the various States on the question of boards accepting claims against medical opinion? Is it a fact that the First Assistant Commissioner, Appeals, is oversighting decisions given in good faith by 3 members of the various repatriation boards concerning only those cases which have been accepted by the boards against medical opinion? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister use his good offices with the Australian Medical Association to take up with that body the possibility of easing the means limit applying to eligibility for pensioner medical service benefits so that the wife of a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner who, as well as his TPI pension is in receipt of a Service pension, may receive a pensioner medical card and so may receive medicines on a repatriation prescription? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that when a member of the Army is transferred from Tasmania to another State, the Department of the Army will not insure his property during shipment across Bass Strait; if so, will the Minister take whatever action is necessary to have the Regulations amended, so that the Department will carry the insurance. 

 Senator BISHOP - The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth accepts liability for loss of damage to furniture and effects during removal, including shipment to and from Tasmania, up to  a  maximum of $8,000. The period of Commonwealth indemnity extends from the time the consignment is accepted by the removalist to the time of delivery to the member's residence at the new location and includes any period during which it is held in storage. If a member desires protection against total loss in excess of $8,000, it is his own responsibility to arrange the additional coverage. 
In the case of motor vehicles, the member is expected to claim compensation through insurance arrangements he has entered into himself. Where the member has no insurance cover, it must be assumed that he is normally prepared to face the risk of damage to his vehicle. Consequently, there are no grounds for expecting the Commonwealth to accept a risk which the owner of the vehicle is unwilling to accept at any time. 
In the case of insurance for boats, this is a matter currently under joint Defence/Service examination as part of an overall study of expenses incurred by Service personnel when posted from one locality to another. 
All of this follows the recommendations put forward by the Kerr Committee of Inquiry into Services' Pay in its fifth report which dealt with the Removals System, including Disturbance Allowance. 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that the implementation of the points system may cause television stations in the smaller centres of Australia to reduce their hours of transmission so that they will not need to earn so many points? Further, does he realise that any reduction of hours of transmission will most probably require a subsequent reduction in staff? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence concerns VIP aircraft. Can the Minister give an account of the total cost of VIP aircraft over the last 6 months? What is the estimated cost of the BACIII flight to be undertaken by the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard, Sir Arthur  Tange, Admiral  Sir Victor  Smith and their wives, and what would be comparable cost of their travel in commercial aircraft? If the Minister has not an estimate of the cost of the BACIII flight, does this mean that the Government has okayed the use of this aircraft in an open-ended way? 
I wish to address myself to a lack of expenditure by the Department of Tourism and Recreation. In all other areas I would severely criticise the Government for the amount of spending it has been doing, but I will talk about that on another day. Right now I want to refer to the lack of spending in relation to sport and recreation. Honourable senators who know me well will realise that sport is a subject in which I am very interested and have been interested in from about the age of 16 years. In a lot of ways I am quite sorry that I did not become interested in fitness earlier than the age of 16 years. Perhaps if there had been facilities to encourage the youth of my day, my early years and those of many others would have been more enjoyable. Nowadays about half the deaths in this country result from heart disease and heart attacks. Part of the blame for these deaths - which often occur at an age when the individuals are at their most productive - can be laid on lack of exercise. The cost to the nation in providing medical facilities to cope with this type of illness and the waste of manpower is enormous and makes any investment in preventative measures well worth while. 
We need to get people off their seats and to get them to participate in some type of sport or recreation involving physical activity. The facilities must be there to encourage them. Australia is at the stage where we need an active Federal portfolio to look after sport and culture. Other countries, without the wonderful weather we have, have a portfolio catering for these activities and interests. Even a country like Turkey spends about one-tenth of one per cent of its Budget on its Ministry for Youth and Sports. If we adopted a similar practice we would spend between $8m and $10m a year in that area. I admit that a Federal Minister for Tourism and Recreation has been appointed, but as yet we cannot be sure that his portfolio will include sport and culture to the degree that many of us and many sports folk would like to see. It is to be hoped that it will, but so far we have seen no action. We have heard a lot of talk but we have seen no action. 
Sport in Australia is a huge industry. Various forms of racing, athletics and team games all have thousands of followers and participants. The National Fitness Council and other organisations are doing a good job with the small amount of money they receive. From memory, the current Federal grant is a measly $500,000 a year. The type of money that the National Fitness Council needs is low interest capital for buildings. Once the buildings are up, they are usually self supporting and vandalism in the area is likely to decrease. So the money that is spent on community national fitness halls is saved, at least in part, in reduced repair costs due to less vandalism. As I mentioned a moment ago, the cost to our nation due to illness is enormous but could be reduced by the provision of national fitness facilities. Really, we cannot afford not to spend this money. 
What type of facilities do we need? Probably in the national fitness field, Tasmania is well to the fore and, although Tasmania could use twice as many national fitness halls, probably already it has more per head of population than the other States. The type of centres that I envisage are required all across the country. They would be combined with facilities catering for squash, basketball, badminton, and volley-ball, perhaps with associated meeting-rooms. A national design could be arrived at easily and the centres located alongside most schools, particularly secondary schools. Schools are usually somewhere near the focal point of our communities. To ensure the utmost utilisation of the centres I suggest that the schools use them during the daytime and that they be made available to the public outside school hours. In Tasmania this is done already in some areas that I can think of and I know of other schools that are ideally suited to this type of co-operation between the Department of Education and the National Fitness Council. I feel that this is an urgent need of all States. 
When it comes to our overseas image, our sportsmen and women are probably our best advertisement. It is now a myth that Australia is a sporting nation, a myth that is propped up by the success of a few of our star competitors, while the actual rate of active participation in sports is falling. But still, a visit of an Australian swimming team with people such as Shane Gould probably would receive much more attention in overseas countries than would a ministerial visit. I think that it is a good idea to provide a certain number of travelling scholarships for worthy sportsfolk but that is outside the realm of my discussion today. On the cultural side, Australia produces great artists. We have a great ballet and singers. But in these fields, as well as in the sporting fields, organisation is often haphazard. Australia would benefit if they were coordinated under a ministry which would be able to enlist the advice of various experts from around the country. 
To sum up, Australia is sadly lacking in sporting facilities for most of the public. We have all heard cries about the low standard of fitness of our secondary school students. But our adults need help, perhaps even more so. We are living in a country of growing affluence. A great many of us eat too much. We live in our motor cars. We have many labour saving devices and soon, I suspect, we will have to work only  35  hours a week. We are becoming more and more sedentary with associated health problems. We need the provision of millions of dollars worth of sporting facilities each year. The aim of the Government must be to have a gymnasium or national fitness centre - call it what you will. We must aim for a centre associated with all secondary school at least and available to the public at other than school times. I am convinced that if a ministry of sport and recreation implemented such a policy it would lead, within a year or two, towards Australians being more involved in sport again and we would rightly be able to call ourselves this sporting nation'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered reducing the prescription fee on all medicines to SO cents, in view of the50 cent prescription fee charged for prescriptions for 'the pill'. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The patient contribution for the supply of a pharmaceutical benefit is one dollar, except to eligible pensioners and their dependants and persons eligible under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan. This includes supplies of oral contraceptives. In the case of oral contraceptives supplied as pharmaceutical benefits, a quantity sufficient for two months may be obtained on one visit to the chemist, on the payment of the one dollar patient contribution. It is therefore not fifty cents patient contribution for oral contraceptives but one dollar per supply of two monthly packs. 
In certain circumstances a medical practitioner may choose to prescribe only one month's supply of an oral contraceptive, in which case the patient contribution is still one dollar. 
Depending on the dosage employed, there are other items available as pharmaceutical benefits, e.g. insulin and certain drugs used in the treatment of epilepsy. the maximum quantity of which would allow treatment for two months or more. The maximum quantity of these items is also obtainable on the payment of the normal patient contribution of one dollar. 
However, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, including the level of patient contribution for items prescribed under the scheme, is at present under close and careful examination. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Yesterday the Minister told me in a reply to a question about reducing prescription prices that the pharmaceutical benefits scheme is at present under review. I ask: Will the Minister ensure that as a result of that review larger amounts of medicines required on a long term basis for chronic complaints be made available at one time so that, firstly, the cost to the patient will be reduced and secondly, the cost to the Government will be reduced due to less money being paid to chemists and less doctors' fees being paid due to fewer visits to doctors just to get a prescription? This procedure would then bring essential medicines into the same category as the 'pill', of which a person can get 2 months' supply for $1. 
 My question is to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. In view of the number of long distance telephone calls that people on King Island must make to carry on ordinary business arrangements due to the difficulties caused by the lack of shipping to that island, will the Minister consider reducing the cost of long distance calls from King Island until the shipping trouble is resolved and so help ease the financial burden on King Islanders? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the concern over the future of Australia's limited tropical and temperate forest resources, will the Minister say what investigations have been carried out by his Department or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation into the economic and environmental implications of both current and projected wood chip contracts? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it true that a number of visits by patients to their doctors in some provinces of Canada went up by about 3 times when the Canadian medical scheme was introduced? Can the Minister say whether the anticipated increase and the number of doctors' consultations in Australia will be of this same order when our new scheme is introduced, with a consequent huge increase in the number of prescriptions given out and therefore a considerable increase in cost to the country? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What were (a) the number of complaints received in each State during the last year relating to telephone accounts, and (b) the number of accounts, by State, in which a downward adjustment in the charges were made. 
How many of these adjustments, by State, were due to errors attributed to subscriber trunk dialling overcharging. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Postmaster-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
Because of the cost involved, continuing statistics are not maintained of all queries raised by subscribers in relation to their telephone accounts. However, from time to time the queries received from metropolitan subscribers for one month are analysed and the most recent survey was in November 1972 when 304,477 accounts were issued. The results were as follows: 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Prime Minister advise what the increase has been in the number of persons employed by the Commonwealth Public Service from the end of November 1972 until the end of May 1973. 
Will the Prime Minister endeavour to provide this information before the Senate rises for the Winter Adjournment. 

 Senator MURPHY- The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Staff employed under the Public Service Act as at 30 November 1972: full-time, 246,876; part-time, 4,905; total, 251,781. 
At 31 May 1973: full-time, 253,665; part time, 5,318; total, 258,983. 
Increase: full-time, 6,789; part-time, 413; total, 7,202. 
Statistics of persons employed under the Public Service Act as at 31 May 1973 could not be made available until after 30 June 1973. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Prime Minister provide to the Senate, before it rises for the winter recess, a statement setting out details of costs and dates of all overseas Ministerial trips since the Government came into office on 2 December 1972, broken down to show: (a) cost attributable to the Minister himself; (b) cost of those accompanying the Minister. 

 Senator MURPHY - The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In accordance with usual practice the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-1974 shows expenditure brought to account during the preceding financial year for overseas travel by Ministers (including personal staff). The cost of other travel is shown in the Bill against the appropriate departments. Costs are not recorded in accordance with the breakdown requested by the honourable senator. 
A comprehensive table showing details of all overseas Ministerial visits commenced or completed between 2 December 1972, to 30 June 1973 has been supplied to  Mr Garland,  M.P., whose question No. 566 antedated the honourable senator's question (House of Representatives Hansard, 23 August 1973, pages 381-3). 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister able to give the people of Australia an absolute assurance that the 1.35 per cent income levy proposed to be paid towards the health scheme will be sufficient? Can he say whether the 1.3S per cent levy is also intended to provide enough money to meet the administrative costs of the Government department which will be needed to run the scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware that many people over 75 years of age who had expected the means test to be lifted fully feel that they have been short-changed by the Government's decision to deny them the right to receive pensioner benefits such as free medical, hospital and pharmaceutical benefits and reduced rates for radio and television licences? When will the Government give the old people of this country a fair go and do what it promised, that is, remove the means test without these unfair restrictions? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a letter which was recently in the Singapore Straits 'Times' and which was headed 'Boomerang for Whitlam'? The letter stated1: 
I drive an Australian car, wear Australian shirts and eat their apples and pears, but I will be damned if I will touch these things again. My car goes for a trade-in this weekend. And if my grocer values my account he had better make sure that no boomerang or kangaroo marking appears on his deliveries to my home. 
Will the Minister say whether this is a typical feeling in Singapore, following the arguments between our  Mr Whitlam  and Lee Kuan Yew, and to what extent our trade with Singapore has increased or decreased since last December? 
I believe that it is the wish of the Government that this measure be given a speedy passage, so I shall be brief. I believe that the alterations contained in this Bill amount to political conniving which will help the Government retain office unduly and which may have severe repercussions for the people of Tasmania. Admittedly, the alterations envisaged would not directly affect Tasmania a great deal at this time. But indirectly, the effect of the legislation would be to centralise power in Sydney and Melbourne to the detriment of the rest of the country and the smaller States, particularly Tasmania and Western Australia. That is the main reason why I will oppose this Bill, lt is against Tasmanian interests. 
Another reason is that if the Government wants an issue on which to force a double dissolution, this is as good an issue as any. Let there be no doubt about it; I would welcome a double dissolution. As a matter of fact, I feel that there are thousands of thinkers, independent of either political party, who would like an early chance to pass judgment on this Government. They do not like and are scared of some of the things - not all of them - that this Government is doing. This Bill is one of them. I hope that the Senate maintains its watch-dog position. It has a duty to protect State rights. I hope that it tosses out this Bill as it did 3 months ago. If it does not do so, this Government could correctly call the Senate a paper tiger. I shall oppose the Bill. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in the absence of the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. My question relates to home savings grants. No doubt the Minister is aware that last weekend the Minister for Housing, in attempting to justify the cessation of the home savings grant as detailed in the Budget, said that some applicants for such grants had fiddled government money. Will the Minister say whether such action is widespread and whether it is illegal? If it is illegal, can he say whether any charges have been laid against those reputed by the Minister to be guilty? If it is not illegal, is it right for the Minister to imply that people acting within the law have fiddled government money? 
I present an interim report from the Senate Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians. This report is very short and, in accordance with standing order 315, I propose to read it. By resolution of the Senate on 17 May 1973, the Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians was established to investigate and report on five separate matters specified in section 1 of that resolution by 'the last sitting day of the Senate prior to 31 August 1973'. The full terms of the resolution and membership of the Committee are included in the attachment, to the statement circulated to honourable senators. The terms of reference make particular mention of the Croatian migrant community in Australia, but embrace also other migrant communities who have settled in this country. 
To ensure the greatest possible awareness by all migrant groups that the Committee was concerned with allegations of infringement of their civil .rights, submissions were invited by advertisements in the Australian metropolitan Press and in foreign language newspapers in 12 different languages. 
From the submissions received and oral evidence so far presented, it is apparent that some members of the various migrant groups in Australia believe that, in one form or another, their civil rights have been infringed. Some believe they are being subjected to surveillance and psychological pressure by agents of foreign governments in Australia. Fears have also arisen from contact with the law and others arising from frictions which have developed between factions of certain ethnic groups. The Committee is not yet at the stage where it can judge conclusively whether these feelings are justified. 
While the' Committee does not wish to refer to special migrant communities or specific governments at this stage, it is worth reporting to the Senate that this aspect has been discussed in the evidence given by the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police Force and the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Both have given assurances to the Committee that they would be prepared at any time to receive and fully investigate claims made by members of the migrant community who feel that they have been subjected to pressure by agents or agencies of various foreign governments. The Committee wishes to report these assurances now in the hope that they may allay fears that it believes do exist. 
Early in the course of public hearings, it became apparent that a number of accusations would be made against individuals and the Committee was concerned, while it wished to examine the complaints made, that those against whom charges were levelled would be given an opportunity to answer them. As a consequence, it has taken the step, wherever possible, of notifying persons against whom allegations are made in submissions of the substance of the allegations, and assuring them that they will be given the opportunity to respond in submissions to the Committee if they wish to do so. 
The Committee has held 11 meetings and has received evidence from a number of migrant groups, the Director-General of Security, the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police and representatives of the New South Wales Police. A number of further witnesses, both individuals and organisations, have indicated a wish to be heard and the Committee wishes to evaluate their submissions and make an appropriate decision. The Committee desires to take further evidence to assist its report and requests an extension of time until the first week in November. 
The attention of the Senate is drawn to the fact that as at 28 August 1973 Hansard has been able to produce only the transcript of the first hearing which was held on 16 July 1973. The Committee is unable to proceed with its deliberations in the absence of these transcripts of evidence. I therefore ask leave to move a motion requesting an extension of time for the Committee to complete its task. 
I direct a question to either the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation or to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that the airlines have recently been allowed a 10 per cent fare increase, and that the economy would suggest that fares will continue to increase over the coming years, and as Tasmania is so dependent upon air travel, will the Minister attempt to find some way of ensuring that tourists to and from Tasmania will be given a preferential rate of air travel, subsidised in some way, in lieu of spending money in other States for the development of freeways for interstate transport? 
-That is better than being behind it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of how difficult it is for some small travel agents to become International Air Transport Association agents? 
Will the Minister investigate the possibility of making International Air Transport Association agencies available to travel agents who show that they can sell a certain value of overseas tickets each year? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. In view of the fact that inflation has been extremely savage in the area of food price increases and that pensioners have to spend a great proportion of their pensions on food, will the Minister take immediate steps to request the Prime Minister to grant a further increase in pensions, although an amount was given in the recent Budget? I point out that pension payments do not contribute greatly to inflation, so that excuse cannot be used to avoid doing the right thing. 
-Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister able to confirm that the group of Public Service personnel who are becoming well known as fat cats have increased in number from 957 at the end of January this year to 1,121 at the end of July this year, an increase of some 17 per cent in just 6 months? By 'fat cats' I mean anyone in the Second Division or higher in the Public Service and earning in excess of $17,000 per annum. If the number of fat cats has increased to this extent, will the Minister say whether it is anticipated that the rest of the Public Service will increase proportionately as the empire building goes on? In other words, will the Minister confirm that the fat cats are breeding like rabbits but that the bunny will be the Australian taxpayer? 
-Will the AttorneyGeneral confirm that if a person is not prepared to answer questions asked by a census taker, such as the number of people in a house during the week, the number of hours worked, whether the house is owned or rented, and the amount of overtime worked, that person could be fined and even committed to gaol. If the answer is yes, does this not look like a serious invasion of privacy? 
-Is the Minister for Housing able to say whether the new interest rates will effectively dry up credit available for housing and whether people on relatively low incomes and newly married couples will find it more difficult to get enough money for their houses and most probably will be forced into bigger second mortgages with even higher interest rates because there will be no concessional rates on the second mortgage market? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. No doubt the Minister is aware that the present rate of inflation of food prices is about 1 7 per cent per annum. Has the Department of Social Security carried out any surveys into the proportion of a pensioner's pension that is spent on food? If not, will it urgently carry out such a survey so that an immediate increase in the pension can be made if it is found that pensioners are existing below the poverty level, as I suspect many of them are? 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry able to advise the loss per annum that apple growers in Tasmania will experience resulting from the removal of the sales tax exemption on carbonated drinks containing 5 per cent of Australian fruit juice? In view of the concern that has been expressed in Tasmania in regard to this matter, has the Minister made any efforts to have the decision to remove this exemption reconsidered? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
1 ) What percentage of the cost of aviation turbine fuel is made up by fuel tax? 
What is the total estimated income expected to be derived from aviation turbine fuel tax in this financial year? 
Is this money used to offset the cost of operating the Department of Civil Aviation, or is it paid directly into Consolidated Revenue? 
I want to be brief because I believe that other honourable senators also want to speak on this  matter. However, I want to criticise the amount of increase proposed in this legislation and also the way in which the means test has been altered. Let us look at what  Mr Whitlam  's Government has done for the pensioners, many of whom in my opinion are very near or right on the breadline. Those pensioners whom I come in contact with in the course of my day to day work as I journey around Tasmania are dreadfully worried and scared at this time by the huge increases in the cost of living that have been so rampant in this country since this Government came into power. What is this Government doing so magnificently for them? The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget speech said: 
All social service pensions will be increased by $1.50 per week as soon as legislation can be enacted, thus bringing to $23 per week the rate for single aged, invalid and widow pensioners and to $40.50 per week the combined rate for a married couple. 
I say that the Government should be ashamed of itself for lifting pensions by only this meagre amount. Surely  Mr Whitlam  has realised just how much need there is. Totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners got a lift of $4.50 on top of their pension of $5 1 a week. I am not for a moment decrying the fact that repatriation pensioners have received such a lift. But I am decrying the fact that this Government has not seen fit to look after our elderly people betterthe people who helped build and make this country as great as it is today, or as great as it has been. 
This Government has not seen fit to look after these people, many of whom I class as very dear friends, to the extent that it should. In my opinion these pensioners should have received a rise of at least the same amount as that of the repatriation people. Unless the Government looks after our pensioners better than it has been doing I believe these pensioners could become known as our 'thin cats' and we might see the thin ones increase in number as rapidly as the fat ones are doing in the Public Service. The Government promised to abolish the means test on pensions payable to people over 65 years of age within 3 years. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech: 
As the first step, the means test on age pensions for persons 75 years of age and over will be abolished from the Spring of 1973. 
But what have we found out since? It is true that the Government partially abolished the means test. But it has kept prying into the lives of our elderly people to find out how much they are earning in addition to their pensions, because if they earn too much the means test will not really be removed. It will not be totally lifted and they will not receive the benefit of such things as medical and hospital allowances and pharmaceutical benefits free as do pensioners who do not have quite as much money or means. 
I say that this Government is 2-faced. I hesitate to say that it is downright dishonest- I. will not say that. But surely something is missing when it says that it will remove the means test and then says: 'Yes, but we are not going to remove it in quite the way you thought we meant when we talked about it. No, we have decided that we are not going to give our aged people what we made them think we were going to give them. We are going to clobber them a little bit more. We are going to keep prying into their private lives to find out whether they have earned a few bob by working a few hours, even if they are only doing it for something to do. If they happen to have too much money in the bank or too many means they will not get the support that they have been paying taxes towards all their lives'. I would like to see the total abolition of the means test and not the halfway measure which we recently have seen. With regard to the taxing of pensions, 1 feel it is justified that a pension should be added to income if the means test is fully removed. But in certain cases I feel there should be no tax, for instance in the case of blind pensioners who receive a special pension and work. Today I received a letter from a gentleman who is the  President  of the blind pensioners group in Tasmania. It may well be that these people and some others should be exempt from any tax on their pension. I support this Bill and I will say more about this matter during the debate on the Budget. 
-We are discussing the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill which provides for the holding of a referendum to give the Commonwealth power to control the prices of any goods which are sold. This comes at a time when a tremendous number of people are worried about inflation. This Government has been warned about inflation almost since it came to office. Before the Ministers had time to develop a shine on their trousers from their new seats people in the community were warning that some Government actions would lead to uncontrollable galloping inflation. But seemingly no heed was paid to the advice that came from experts. We saw Government spending go mad. The Government appeared to be spending money like a drunken sailor. It has employed about 20,000 extra people in the Commonwealth Public Service and it shows no sign of letting up its encouragement of the growth of bureaucracy. In my opinion a lot of the inflation in prices has a direct relation to all this Government spending. So really, the Government has had the power to control inflation all the time or at least to reduce it to a level below that of most other countries. 
Of course we know that inflation knocks around the pensioners, the superannuitants and those on fixed incomes. These are the people who each week notice the increase in food prices, such as on biscuits and rice bubbles, when they try to balance their budget. Pensioners, particularly in Tasmania, are finding the food price increases worrying. I meet a great many pensioners and I know how difficult it is for them to exist let alone have the many outings which the younger people feel are the right of all Australians. As I said earlier today, some of the people who helped build this country are being reduced to the poverty line. But tonight I want to be brief. I believe that a great percentage of Tasmanians will be very wary of handing any more powers to this centralist, socialist Government of 

 Mr Whitlam. I would have liked to carry out a survey to find out just how more of them felt. 
There seems to have been a great deal of haste in bringing this legislation even though we have not seen a great deal of haste in a lot of inflationary measures which are more easily available. I have not had the time to analyse Tasmanian views on this matter but I will support the holding of the referendum. I will support the Government but I point out that I am doing this so that the Tasmanian people can make up their own minds about whether they want price control. I would really have preferred to have seen a wages and prices policy and not a one-sided or divided measure. But at this stage I am prepared to support the Government's proposal. Personally I feel that we should not give any more State powers to this centralist Government. But some people want to vote on the matter. I have not had a chance to carry out a survey to see the way they are thinking and therefore I will support the Government and allow those people to have that vote.  -Senator BYRNE  (Queensland) (9.48)-I intervene on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party at this point to indicate the attitude of the Party to the Constitutional Alteration (Prices) Bill. That attitude has not been stated prior to this time in the course of the debate. As honourable senators know the Bill before the chamber is a Bill for a referendum to vest in the Commonwealth Government power to control prices. The Democratic Labor Party has been very gravely concerned that the proper method to handle inflation is dual control over prices and incomes. As honourable senators know, last week I gave notice of the introduction of the Constitution Alteration (Prices and Incomes) Bill. I took it to the second reading stage. It is a Bill for a referendum to control prices and incomes. Therefore those two propositions are before the Senate. I indicate that the Democratic Labor Party is prepared to support this Bill on the understanding, which we know has been given and which will be honoured-I would like the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  to indicate that that is the position because I think that is due to everybody- that the Government will introduce a Bill for a referendum to control incomes. If that Bill duly passes both Houses the referendum will go forward to find put the attitude of the people in relation to the control of prices and at the same time, the attitude of the electorate to the control of incomes.  lt Is common knowledge now that the Australian Labor Party initially had a proposition before it for control over incomes but, according to the Press last week, the Party did not see fit to adopt that proposal. However, the Party has reconsidered the matter and is prepared to introduce a Bill to control incomes as well as prices. This proposal will be put in a referendum at the same time. The two heads will be put separately so that people may vote for or against power over prices and for or against power over incomes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will general practitioners, when the Government's proposed national health scheme is introduced, be dealt with on the same basis as any other Australian public servants. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, will general practitioners (a) work a basic week of 36.75 hours, (b) receive penalty rates for overtime, (c) be entitled to sick, long service and study leave, (d ) be provided with an equipped surgery and a motor vehicle, together with secretarial, nursing and paramedical staff, and (e) receive basic salary adjustments in line with other public servants. 
If the answer to (1) is in the negative, what conditions will apply. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. No doubt the Minister is aware that many people live on the West Coast of Tasmania in what might be called an unpleasant, cold and damp climate and that these Tasmanians - 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does the Postmaster-General's Department plan to introduce push-button telephones for use in Australia in the near future; if so when. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the New Town telephone exchange, Hobart, becoming seriously overloaded; if so when will action be taken to improve telephone services in that area. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that about one-quarter of Australia 's visitors come from New Zealand and that if flights came direct from New Zealand to Tasmania en route to Melbourne or Sydney the total flight distances, in many cases, would not be a great deal longer? As tourism is so important to Tasmania, will the Minister advise whether the Government has recently considered improving the status of Hobart 's airport buildings and airstrips so that Hobart would be suitable for direct flights from New Zealand. If the Government has not recently considered the matter, will the Minister be good enough to ask the Minister for Civil Aviation to do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the Postmaster-General aware that Australia's overseas airmail rate for postcards is, by world standards, extremely high. 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of just how important the sending of postcards from Australia can be in promoting tourism in this country, especially through the dissemination of photographs of Australia. 
Will the Postmaster-General take immediate steps to examine the possibility of reducing airmail postcard rates to a level more in Vine with other countries and so that visitors to Australia will be more likely to send picture postcards overseas. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface the question by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that over the last weeks people trying to borrow money have had great difficulty in obtaining finance from banks and from building societies due primarily to the restrictions imposed by the Reserve Bank of Australia. Is the Minister aware that there is considerable concern that the Government now plans to control lending by credit unions such as those operated on behalf of teachers and public servants? Can the Minister end this concern by stating categorically that the Government does not intend to control lending by such lending groups? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation seen reports that the airline pilots are considering going on strike because the Government is insisting that Ansett Airlines of Australia sign an agreement? If there is such a strike will the Minister ask the Minister for Civil Aviation to request that the pilots continue flying to Tasmania because that State is so dependent upon airline travel? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister ask the airlines of Australia to set aside a larger number of seats for non-smokers in aircraft, so that the percentage of such seats is more in keeping with the number of persons who do not smoke? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did  Dr Deeble,  the Government's health economics adviser, indicate in Hobart, on 9 August 1973, that he did not even know the current health insurance rates for Tasmania, and yet state in so many words in front of some 100 doctors that four out of five doctors will be better off 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that Tasmania does not receive moneys from the Australian Government for the development of freeways for interstate transport, as do the other States, will the Minister take action to ensure that a fair percentage of moneys is allocated to Tasmania for the subsidisation of shipping to and from that State. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In view of the recent increase in the cost of food and the consequent doubt that all school children receive an adequate amount of food from a nutritional point of view because some families cannot afford to buy enough for them, and because milk is almost a perfect food, will the Minister ask the Government to consider continuing the payment of money for the supply of school milk until a Commonwealth survey has been carried out of the nutritional needs of children, so that we will not deprive children at an age when correct nutrition is so important to their growth and development? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the increase in the number of persons employed by the Commonwealth Police Force in each State and the Australian Capital Territory during each of the last five years. 
What were the reasons for the increase. 
What was the total number of persons employed by the Force as at 3 1 August 1 973. 
What is the anticipated number of persons who will bc employed by the Force as at 30 June 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the cost of providing free milk to school children in Tasmania during the last financial year. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. As some members of this Government have indicated that much of Australia's inflation is imported, and surely it is the province of the Government to protect people on fixed incomes as much as possible, I ask: Has the Government any plans that would automatically protect pensioners and superannuitants from whatever rate of inflation may prevail at a certain time? If not, could such a plan be considered? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. No doubt the Minister is aware of the very good work that is done on behalf of returned soldiers by the Legal Service Bureau which, I believe, is in Sydney only. Can the Minister say why this service should be available only to some returned soldiers in that one area of Australia and not, for instance, to those who live in my State of Tasmania? Will he consider extending the Legal Service Bureau to all States for the benefit of assistance of those attempting to obtain repatriation pensions? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister yet able to advise when the current review of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme will be completed. 
When will adequate provision be made within the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme to enable persons suffering chronic ill health to receive larger quantities of pharmaceuticals than are presently allowed by the Scheme at any one time, with a consequent saving to the Government and, more importantly, the patient. 
-No doubt the Minister representing the Minister for Health will have noted a question I asked last week concerning milk for school children. In that question I asked that the milk supply be continued until a Commonwealth nutritional survey could be carried out. I now ask: Has the Minister seen a technical note by J. E. Coy, who is a nutrition officer in the Tasmanian Department of Health Services, in which it is shown that some Tasmanian children receive as little as 6.7oz of milk a day at home and so are in need of school milk? If he has not seen this note, will he bring it and any other information available from the Tasmanian Department of Health Services to the attention of the Commonwealth Department of Health when it reconsiders the proposal to cut out the supply of milk to school children? 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLAND  Senator Townley  was good enough to show me at the commencement of question time an article headed 'Milk Consumption of Tasmanian School Children' written by Joanna Coy, the nutrition officer of the Department of Health Services in Hobart. I notice that the article appeared in the 'Australian Journal of Dairy Technology' of June 1972. 1 will certainly draw the attention of my colleague the Minister for Health to the article referred to. 
I rise briefly to give support to this motion moved by  Senator Wright.  I do not agree that it is a waste of time to debate these matters. I feel that we Tasmanian senators must stick up for Tasmania and this is supposed to be a States House where we do just that. It is obvious to anyone who lives in Tasmania that Tasmania is at a tremendous disadvantage and needs special treatment in this matter of shipping and transport. Because ours is an island State we can be held to ransom. A union- whether it is the Seamen's Union, or the Waterside Workers Federation, one of the airline unions or a refuelling union- can do a lot of damage to us. We heard previous speakers give details of just how much trouble some of the unions have forced on Tasmania. These disputes have been going on for many years and there is definite evidence that firms are leaving and have left the State as a result of unreliable shipping services. Some people who holiday in Tasmania or those who wish to go from Tasmania to the mainland and take their cars with them to save hiring one quite often find that they are locked in Tasmania. If they are locked in Tasmania perhaps it is a good thing; if they are left on the mainland for too long it might be a bad thing. But they cannot bank on their shipping booking being available because these ships are usually tied up at times of most inconvenience to the public. Unions in some cases seem to have very little regard for the shipping service as it affects the people, producers and companies in Tasmania. We have got to a stage with the economy of Tasmania where we need help. I do not intend to go to great lengths to bash the unions. I know many unionists who get as annoyed as I do about these hold-ups. There are a lot of reasonable people in some of the trade unions. But what I feel and what I want to suggest is that the Commonwealth Government should bring in legislation which insists that all services be continued across Bass Strait to Tasmania at all times. The legislation should make it illegal for any union to interfere with scheduled services to this island State. We are a State of the Commonwealth. All the other States can use their road or rail transport to get about. But because we are an island we need legislation which will keep us linked to the mainland at all times. I hope the Government considers that as a positive suggestion. Let us have positive legislation which will look after Tasmania and insist that we are always linked to the mainland in one way or another. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer concerns housing interest rates. Is the Minister aware that many people find the recently imposed extra bank interest quite hard to pay, particularly when the interest has to be paid after paying tax. As it has been suggested that interest rates will again be lifted in the next 12 months, will the Minister give the people of Australia a definite statement that the Government will control interest rates and not allow them to be further increased by the banks so that home buyers will know what they are letting themselves in for when they buy a home? 
-by leaveOn 30 August the Senate approved a request I made on behalf of the Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians for an extension of time for the presentation of the Committee's report until the first sitting day in November 1973. We have since encountered further difficulties in that our program for the completion of hearings was disrupted by recent air transport problems. The delays in the production of the Hansard record of evidence, to which I referred in the Committee's interim report, hampered our deliberations but this difficulty has now been overcome thanks to special efforts by Hansard and the Government Printer. In view of these unexpected problems the Committee requests a further extension of time for the presentation of its report, which I am confident can still be presented during the current sittings of the Senate. I would add that while there are some witnesses still to present evidence, sections of the draft report which will not be affected by this evidence are in course of preparation. 
The Committee proposes that its report be presented as soon as it is possible to do so, but rather than attach a date to this I would seek the Senate's agreement for the Committee's report to be presented prior to the conclusion of the present sittings of the Senate on the assumption that this will not eventuate before midDecember. I therefore ask leave to move a motion requesting an extension of time for the Committee to complete its task. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether it is true that a decision has already been made to site the proposed Omega base in Tasmania and that it is to be built in the south-eastern part of that State? If this is not so, will the Government be prepared to present all the facts both for and against the Omega installation to the people of Tasmania and allow them to decide whether this foreign based installation should be built on their soil? 
-No doubt the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration has seen reports that following the Prime Minister's visit to China a significant number of Chinese migrants may be coming to Australia. Will this number be in addition to the migrants coming from other countries or instead of such people? How many people is it anticipated will be permitted to enter each year? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many advisers are currently employed by the Attorney-General's Department in the Attorney-General's office. 
How many advisers have been employed during 1973, and what is, or was, the daily remuneration of each such adviser. 
-! direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As it seems quite apparent that the Government intends gradually to control more areas of finance in Australia, will the Minister say whether the Government has any plans to freeze funds of private superannuation funds, that is, effectively nationalising those funds, and using this money towards a compulsory national superannuation scheme? Has the Government any thoughts of a compulsory national superannuation scheme at this stage? 
Firstly, I should like to thank the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare for the help that they extended to me during our study of the repatriation system of this country. I had been in the Senate only a few months when I was asked whether I would like to participate in the deliberations of this Committee, and as I believe that properly used Senate committees can do a great deal of good, I willingly accepted that offer. Most of all, I thank  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield who helped me a great deal during the early months.  Senator Douglas  McClelland was always willing to give me the benefit of his previous experience, and it was unfortunate for the Committee that he was elevated to higher things. I am grateful to the other members of the Committee who are listed in the front of the report, but I do not intend to name them individually. 
One of the prime aims that I had when looking at any aspect of the repatriation system was to ensure that no benefits already available were removed from our returned servicemen. Many of these people had their health severely damaged by their service to this country. We saw tragic evidence of this in all areas of Australia, and I for one do not want to see any advantages that these gentlemen have interfered with in any way. What I wanted to see happen was the system made easier and a lot of the red tape removed. We wanted to try to make appeals easier, to have the reasons for appeal rejections given and to have less travelling forced on repatriation patients- anything to make life a little better for these people, many of whom I claim as friends, particularly in Tasmania. I believe that our recommendations go a long way towards making life better for the genuinely disadvantaged repatriation recipient. 
In the course of the investigation, a few accusations were made that all repatriation pensioners were bludgers. I would in no way agree with that statement. There may be one or two, but is that not typical of any section of our Australian community? Basically, my attitude is that people applying for repatriation pensions are completely genuine. In fact, I can think of several cases right now which are completely genuine where the applicants are having the devil 's own job of getting what I would call a 'fair go'. I wish to be brief. On the next occasion when this discussion is before the Senate it may well be that I will speak a little longer on that aspect. 

 Senator Dame Nancy Buttfield has enumerated the reasons for the report and our reasons for the minority report. I repeat that in no way did we want to remove any benefit that was genuinely sought or any benefit for any condition that was genuinely attributable to war service. I wish to comment on the work of the returned servicemen 's organisations. They do a great amount of work to the benefit of ex-servicemen in presenting their claims. I hope that they will continue to provide this service because I am sure that many returned servicemen and exservicewomen would be completely lost without their aid. Also, the Legal Service Bureau in New South Wales should be commended. By way of a question in the Senate recently I asked that it be expanded. 
Perhaps there will be some criticism of some aspects of our report. We cannot please everyone all the time. But I do know that we did a great deal of work in sorting out the evidence in the preparation of the report. I hope that the report is of some benefit and, even if its recommendations are not adopted entirely, it will form a blueprint for the improvement of conditions for our returned servicemen. 
I make this final point: I look forward to the day when ordinary pensioners, as distinct from repatriation pensioners, receive the same quality of treatment as do our returned soldiers. Many of these people worked on the home front. They performed duties that were essential to the war effort. They are entitled to somewhat similar, if not identical, conditions and benefits to those received by ex-service personnel. As our country can gradually afford these benefits, I would ask that this aspect be kept in mind. Once again, I thank my fellow Committee members and those within the Repatriation Department for their assistance in our deliberations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Minister consider lifting the invalid pension to a higher level, so that young persons who are unlucky enough to be invalided will be better assisted in establishing a home and family. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Post Office planning to reduce the radius of ordinary rate telephone calls from 30 to 12 miles; if so, will telephone calls over a greater distance than 12 miles become STD calls. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that a great many foodstuffs have chemicals added to them for flavouring, colouring or preserving. 
Is the Minister also aware that the purchaser of such foodstuffs has no way of knowing which chemicals are present in foods he may buy. 
Will the Minister inform the Senate whether any steps have yet been taken to encourage or insist that State Governments require that the name and percentage of any food additives be listed on the label or container of foodstuffs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
1 ) When is it anticipated that the airports of Devonport and Wynyard will be up-graded. 
If Devonport and Wynyard airports are up-graded will the Minister ensure that the buildings are also up-graded. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation aware that there is considerable dissatisfaction amongst the ex-servicemen in the seriously disabled category- that is with 75 per cent to 100 per cent assessed disability- and in receipt of the special compensation allowance, who effectively received no increase in their repatriation pensions in the last Budget? Will the Minister reconsider the withdrawal of the $3 special compensation allowance which appears as unfair discrimination against these men and their families? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Why was Synacthen removed from the Commonwealth list of drugs that doctors may prescribe. 
Will the Minister consider again allowing doctors to prescribe the drug under the National Health and Pensioner Medical Service Schemes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
When a tourist in Australia wants to remain as an immigrant, is it mandatoryfor that person to return to his home country before he can be granted an immigrant visa? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that a Tasmanian court action to defer a decision on mining rights in the Precipitous Bluff area will mean a long delay in the formulation of a management plan for the area. 
Does this leave the way open for the Forestry Department to make claims on the forest surrounding the Precipitous Bluff and for mining companies to stake claims in the area. 
In view of the national importance of this area as a scenic and recreational location, will the Minister intervene to ensure that the south-west of Tasmania is preserved as a National Park. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Is the Minister able to advise the Senate of the number of houses that are presently required throughout this country? What number of houses is it anticipated will be required in 12 months time? Does the Minister acknowledge that the present high interest rates on housing loans and lack of finance will prevent many people, particularly low income people, from being able to afford to build their houses until the present credit squeeze is removed, and that many people feel it is wrong to use a financial measure to stop people satisfying their urgent physical need of a home? 
-Has the Acting Minis  ter for Primary Industry noticed recent figures that reveal that farm numbers, total area and the number of permanent full time workers on farms in Tasmania are showing a steady decline? Will the Minister ask the Department of Primary Industry to prepare a report on special requirements on farms in Tasmania so that this very important facet of Tasmania's economy is not allowed to decay? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Before asking my question may I say that I acknowledge the fact that the Government increased the age pension by $1.50 in the last Budget and that these increases will be made twice yearly until the pension is 25 per cent of the male average wage. In view of the present rate of inflation is the Minister able to forecast how soon the pension will reach that 25 per cent? If necessary, will the Minister seek an additional pension increase over and above that promised, to compensate for inflation? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It concerns the matter of free milk for school children which, the Minister will remember, I raised by way of questions on other occasions. Is it a fact that no national nutritional surveys have been carried out since 1948 and that in 1948 nutritionists regarded school milk as a tremendously important aid to good national nutrition? Is it a fact that statistics on national food consumption show only a marginal change in milk consumption since 1948? Finally, is the Minister aware that in many areas children are subsisting on a less than adequate diet, that the removal of the free milk scheme next year will be to the further detriment of their diet, and that the statement that there is no longer any justification for this scheme on a nutritional basis is incorrect and cannot be justified? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When will the Department of Civil Aviation cease to man the flight services at Flinders Island. 
) What was the number of flights to Flinders Island during the last three years. 
3 ) Why is the service being discontinued. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Are almost half the apples produced in Australia for juicing grown in Tasmania and Western Australia and, prior to the Budget, were 3 to 4 million bushels of lower quality apples used for juicing. 
Is the Minister aware that as the tax exemption on nonalcoholic carbonated beverages has been removed, a great number of lower-grade apples previously used for juice will be offered for sale to the public, and this will result in the average price of apples sold on the domestic market falling by50c to $1.00 a bushel. 
Is the Minister aware that there will therefore be a loss of between $4m to $ 10m to the producer as well as the direct loss suffered because of the inability to sell fruit for juice. 
Will the Minister ask the Government to allow again the exemption on non-alcoholic beverages containing5 per cent of Australian fruit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the number of visits to doctors by patients in the Provinces of Canada go up by three times when that country's present medical scheme was introduced. 
Is the Minister able to say whether the anticipated increase in the number of patients consulting doctors in Australia will be of the same order when the Government's new medical scheme is introduced. 
What is the anticipated increase in prescription numbers and costs when the new scheme is introduced. 
-Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General able to confirm that the number of money orders issued and the number of articles registered has fallen markedly since the rates were increased in the last Budget? Do these high costs not prevent many low income people from using these PMG facilities? Has not the point of diminished return now been reached where less money is coming to the Postmaster-General's Department at least from money orders and registered articles? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that Qantas Airways Ltd makes available special fares to members of student groups, such as the Australian Union of Students. 
Is the Minister aware that relatives of some students are also being granted such fares. 
Is the Minister aware that in the coming Christmas holidays, many persons prepared to pay normal prices are having difficulty in obtaining seats due to heavy bookings by such groups. 
Will the Minister restrict such cheap fares to non-peak periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the Postmaster-General able to confirm that the number of money orders issued and the number of articles registered has fallen markedly since the rates for those items were increased in the last Budget 
Do the high rates applied to money orders and registered articles prevent many low-income earners from using those services. 
Has the point of diminished return not been reached where less money is received by the Postmaster-General's Department, in particular from money orders and registered articles, even though charges have risen. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. I preface it by saying that the Minister is no doubt aware of the way in which the recently imposed increase in interest rates on all bank loans is creating a strain on many people who entered into an agreement with their banks or building societies to buy a home prior to their imposition and that the new rates make it quite impossible for many young couples who are trying to obtain their first home to get a loan. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is he able to confirm that, now that the Army, Navy and Air Force have been combined under one Minister for Defence- and we would have expected as a result some efficiencies- in fact the number of officers in the Department of Defence who are receiving more than $17,000 a year and who are becoming well known as 'fat cats' has increased at a time when defence expenditure has decreased? If the Minister is able to confirm this increase in the number of'fat cats', can he say just what efficiencies have resulted from gathering all the defence departments under one head? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When will the five-year review of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund ending 30 June 1972 be tabled in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What will be the estimated additional cost to the Commonwealth of the recently announced increased air fares. (2) What is the estimated total annual cost of air fares for all Government Departments within Australia. (3) Has the Government any plans to restrict first class air travel to a smaller percentage of Public Servants than at present. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Is the Minister aware that the tourist industry is important to the Tasmanian economy and that the tourist industry is a large employer of females? Is he aware that any government impost that leads to an increase in air fares , such as an increase in the fuel tax or an increase in air navigation charges, both of which were effected in the last Budget, has a detrimental effect on tourism to and from Tasmania? Is the Government aware that eventually total government revenue would be increased by the reduction or removal of such restrictive charges as the fuel tax and the air navigation charges through the consequent growth of the tourist industry? Has the Government considered setting up a committee to examine all aspects of tourism or having the Australian Tourist Commission examine all aspects of tourism and the effect of such taxes and charges upon tourism? 
-We are of course discussing the Bill to introduce an Australian health insurance program. It is a very important piece of legislation of some 130 clauses. It has been introduced late in a busy session but it is a piece of legislation that deserves full consideration and discussion and one about which I should like to make several observations. First of all I will say what I feel will happen to the private hospitals under the scheme. Secondly, I will look at where the money will come from and thirdly I should like to say what I feel should be done. 
I refer firstly to private hospitals. Many of the points about private hospitals have been already discussed by previous speakers and I shall try to be brief because other honourable senators wish to speak. It is my firm belief that the introduction of this scheme will see the end of the charitable, religious, community and privately owned hospitals. With the introduction of the scheme we will see the gradual destruction of the benevolent and philanthropic instincts of the thousands of people who work to keep private hospitals operating. Once the drive, initiative and enthusiasm of these people is destroyed it will be very difficult to restart. Once the Government interferes it will be nigh on imposible ever again to build up the organisations which we now have. Once we have bureaucratic control of our health scheme we will, in the not too distant future, have complete nationalisation of the scheme. Not many members of the public will be able to afford the 1.35 per cent levy and the additional health insurance that will be required if they, as many do now, want to go to a private hospital. One feature of this scheme that I dislike a great deal is that it will destroy our private hospital system for no real benefit. In fact it will cost us some hundreds of millions of dollars to build public hospitals to replace the private hospital system. 
Let us come to the cost of the scheme. The levy is to start at 1.35 per cent, which is to be nondeductible. I say the levy will start at 1.35 per cent because I do not trust this Government or the next to keep the levy at 1.35 per cent. I heard on the grapevine- and we all know how accurate grapevines can be around this place- that the extra tax that was originally thought to be required to finance the scheme was about 5 per cent. That is what our university experts came and told the Government. That is what Deeble and company suggested. But the Government knew that would not wash with the public so it told these gentlemen to go away and fix their figures. They did that and came back and the Government was still not satisfied. The gentlemen were told to go away again. Eventually the levy of 1.35 per cent was seemingly plucked out of the air as one the public just might swallow. 
At the moment we have a scheme which covers all but 10 per cent of the public and yet all of us will have to be taxed. Man and wife will be taxed, if both of them work, to finance a scheme that I feel could well get out of control. To me it appears as if this Government is a bit tax crazy and I think the people of Australia have just about had it. They want the Government to reappraise its free spending attitudes. One of the major complaints that I hear time and time again as I travel around Tasmania- which I have been doing a lot of lately- from the ordinary man in the street is that the Government is overspending. The Government is allowing taxation to creep up and up like a consuming cancer, which has already eaten the drive and enthusiasm out of many of our best workers. As I said with regard to those who help keep the private hospitals going, once a person's enthusiasm is killed, once it is burnt out, it is extremely hard to rekindle. 
I think the Government can take it from me that the people of Tasmania anyway are fed up with some of the extravagances of this Government. Perhaps the Government should learn from recent occurrences in Denmark, where a party which advocates a general reduction of taxation has become very powerful almost overnight. Perhaps we in Australia should aim at the same sort of thing and hold the Public Service at its present level. The taxation moneys that we would save if this were done could then be returned to the people to whom they rightly belongthe people that have contributed the taxation to the Government. There is no such thing as Government money. It is the people's money and if ever there is any money over they should get it back rather than see it thrown around in ways that I would call almost dishonest, as we have seen lately. 
Whenever I see extra Government spending I ask: Where will the money come from? Even the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  cannot yet pull money out of a hat. He is not that clever. Anyway it is rabbits which come out of a magician's hat and surely there are enough of them around here already. The taxpayer is becoming a sucker for this blood sucking Government. The vultures will stick their claws in a little deeper every chance they get. This health scheme is attempting to get the taxation claws into us even deeper. I am scared that once the Government gets a grip it will go gradually deeper and deeper. Certainly the 1.35 per cent will not last. It will be like payroll tax. I think that payroll tax was levied at the rate of 2.5 per cent one or two years ago, and now it is 4 per cent or 4.5 per cent. This is what I expect will happen with the health scheme. Once we have a huge government department, I doubt that the position in Australia will be any different from that in many other countries, such as Great Britain and Canada and some of the European countries, where common sense has forced the governments to reconsider their health schemes. Taxation and economics are not well understood by our Prime Minister. That is really an understatementhe really has not a clue about them. He is also out of touch with what the people want, regarding health matters. 
We have seen the results of the referendum which was held last week. A great number of people in Tasmania said: 'Not on your life' to Canberra. They are sick of Government spending, Government interference and our high rates of taxation. I will not be a part of any scheme that allows the setting up of a bureaucratic department to run a health scheme that will make the people more sick of all these things. If a referendum had been held on the health scheme, I estimate that the result for the Government would have been even worse than that achieved in last Saturday's referendum. I estimate that the people of Australia want gradual change and not radical alteration. That brings me to the third reason why I will oppose this Bill and support the amendment. There is not much wrong with the present health scheme; it has evolved gradually. The people of Australia want gradual improvement in the present scheme rather than this first giant step towards nationalisation. 
What Australia needs, I believe, is an independent inquiry to examine all aspects of both schemes, to pick out the good bits and to recommend the most economical ways to overcome our present areas of difficulty. I feel that would be infinitely better and cheaper than, as one of my colleagues said recently, starting a money munching white elephant that we cannot afford to feed. I oppose the Bill and support the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What assistance is available to help First and Second Division Public Servants re-settle into (a) Canberra, and (b) other areas of Australia. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. 
The Minister will no doubt remember that during the year I have attempted to find out when some action will be taken to update Hoban Airport. I now ask: Is the Minister yet able to say when some additions will be made to the buildings so that staff and passengers can be accommodated more satisfactorily and whether the Government has yet considered making the airport an international airport so that direct nights from New Zealand can be handled at Hobart? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What is the proportion of the Australian population which smokes. 
What proportion of seats in commercial aircraft are set aside for the use of passengers who are non-smokers. 
What is the reason for the difference, if any, between the two proportions. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When was the exemption level, before pay-roll tax is imposed, last altered. 
How much has the average weekly wage increased since that time. 
What was the average weekly wage when the exemption level was last increased. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health a question. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that life or death may depend upon rapid and accurate evaluation of heart trouble by the use of electrocardiograph. Therefore, it is of value to the whole community to encourage general practitioners to have these units and to use them. Is the Minister able to confirm that it is the intention of the Government not to refund to patients fees paid for electrocardiographs unless they are done by a specialist- an action which seems contrary to common sense? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence seen a report by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots concerning the conflict of military and civil aircraft in which the Federation points out that there is a real danger of a collision between civil aircraft and some training military aircraft? Does the Minister realise that there have already been some near misses and that the pilots feel it is only a matter of time before there is a mid-air collision? Does the Minister also realise that the radios of the civil and military aircraft are not suitable for direct communication and that the radar of military aircraft is not accurate at low altitudes? Finally, what action is being taken by the Department of Defence to correct this situation so that we will not have an air disaster with perhaps over 100 people being killed? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing by saying that I am pleased to see that the Government is attempting to take action to help home owners a little by reducing home insurance rates. I ask: When will the Government take real steps to make things easier for those presently buying homes and those wanting to buy homes by reducing interest rates on housing? Does the Minister realise that high interest rates simply increase the selling price of houses because anyone who sells a house wants to get back the interest he has paid and therefore puts a higher sale price on his house? Does the Minister realise also that the high interest rates will cause an increase in council rates due to the councils having to borrow at higher interest rates? 
I ask: To comfort people such as those who are dreadfully worried by inflation, is the Minister able to point to any real attempts which the Government has made to control inflation or to foreshadow any moves which are presently being contemplated by the Government not only to help the pensioners who can be easily helped but, even more, to help those on fixed incomes? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface it by asking: Is the Minister aware that one of the things that are worrying the people of Australia most at the moment is the way that inflation is galloping ahead without the Government apparently caring, and that this inflation is hitting home very hard on pensioners and those on fixed incomes? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Government decided that, in future, medical benefits will not be paid to patients for electrocardiographs unless performed by a specialist medical practitioner. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. As the cost of food is one of the areas of greatest inflation in this country, will the Minister ask the Treasurer to prepare a list of the amount of foreign ownership of major food processors in Australia? Have investigations by the Treasury shown that food price inflation is being imported into Australia because of the foreign ownership of food companies? 
-I shall mention 3 items briefly tonight. The first one I want to deal with is the criticism that we have seen of the Senate over the last few weeks by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The second point 1 shall be dealing with will be inflation and then, briefly, I shall comment on tourism. The first thing is the criticism of the Senate by the Prime Minister. No doubt he would like every Bill which comes before this chamber to go straight through. No doubt he would like to have open slather with all his legislation so that, as quickly as possible, he could push through socialist schemes which could well prove to be irreversible, no matter how far in the future we look. Perhaps in their wisdom the people who drew up our Constitution foresaw our present Prime Minister with his desire to change everything as quickly as possible. Perhaps they knew that at some stage in the future we would need the Senate to act with judgment based upon the needs of the States rather than the political needs of the major parties. I make no apology for siding at times with those who suggest a certain slowness of action as is required by our Standing Orders and by the Constitution. Because one Party- the Australian Labor Party- recieved a very small surplus of seats and votes at the last election, that does not mean that that Party should have a completely open go. 
It has been my contention always that a Party does not actually win office. The Government of the day loses it. During the last year or for a bit more than a year we have heard about this Government having a mandate to do whatever it likes. To me that is just rubbish. The Government has a bare majority of some .5 per cent to one per cent. I expect that at the next Senate election we will see quite a swing against the Government. One of the reasons that I expect a swing is that the referenda questions will confuse people. In this I agree with  Mr Bob  Hawke 's first contention, anyway. I feel that  Mr Whitlam  is quite crazy having the referenda questions at the same time as the Senate election. I have said before that  Mr Whitlam  just does not understand figures. If he did he would not spend so much of his time overseas on ministerial trips and he would not be buying 707 aircraft for the VIP fleet. If he knew anything about figures he would be able to reduce taxes rather than continually increase them. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister has seen a copy of the reply sent to me about mid-February by the Minister for Housing in which he replied to a question concerning the number of houses at present required in Australia. However, that reply failed to give the estimated number of houses required. I now ask: Is the Minister able yet to advise the number of houses presently required in Australia; secondly, whether in fact we are heading for a housing shortage that will be greater than that which followed the last war; thirdly, whether the Government has any immediate plans to direct more attention to this area of need so that low income earners and young people may anticipate that one day they will be able to own their own houses; or is this attitude of individual home ownership one that the Government is trying to get rid of? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the amounts of income tax collected by the Australian Government during the last5 financial years. 
) What amount of income tax is expected to be collected during this financial year. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the loss of the use of money by taxpayers who are required to pay taxation instalments as they earn, has the Government considered allowing interest to be paid at a reasonable rate on money which is collected by way of pay as you earn taxation deductions, but which is eventually returned to the taxpayers after they have submitted their annual taxation returns? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) How much was contributed by the Australian Government towards meeting the expenses of the Australian team sent to the British Commonwealth Games held in Christchurch, New Zealand. 
Is the Minister aware that the Australian emblem on the track suits worn by Australian competitors at the Games did not include Tasmania. 
In future, if the Australian Government contributes towards the costs of teams competing overseas, will it insist that any emblems used accurately indicate the whole of Australia. 
I  present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Tasmania: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that for the exercise of complete religious freedom and for the promotion of a liberal and egalitarian society, Church and State need to be kept separate. 
that this principle is recognised in Section 1 16 of the Australian Constitution. 
that the taxing of any citizens to propagate or support any religion is contrary to this principle and a violation of human rights. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that Part 1 1, Section 3, of the proposed Bill of Human Rights, which now reads: 
No one shall be subject to coercion which will impair his freedom to have or to adopt a belief or religion of his choice, be amended to read further: and no revenue derived in any way from any Australian citizen shall be appropriated by the Australian Government, or by a State Government, or by a Municipal Government, for the propagation or support of any religion. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question which is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that there is much spare capacity on many of the telephone systems in Australia. Has the Minister considered allowing people who live in areas outside capital cities to make free telephone calls to Commonwealth Departments, such as the Taxation Office, the Department of Social Security and the Repatriation Department in the capital cities so that these people can have the same access to and service from the departments as do people who live in the cities?  
I ask a question of the Attorney-General. Last Tuesday, after advising  Senator Gair  not to enter the Senate, during the division why did the Attorney-General not advise the Senate that in his opinion there was a stranger in the Senate? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to the announcement of the proposed expansion of Hobart Airport. Is the Minister able to say whether the extensions to the building will contain provisions so that international flights can be handled at Hobart? When does the Government anticipate building runways so that fully laden aircraft larger than 727s can fly direct to Hobart from places like New Zealand? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move that a select committee of the Senate be established to inquire into and report on the civil rights of migrant Australians. I do not propose to take up the time of the Senate by reading the resolution in full, but its purpose is to enable the task assigned to a previous committee to be completed. The terms of this resolution are similar to an earlier resolution with one important exception, and this relates to the membership of the committee. This variation is necessary because of the change in parties represented in the Senate. Copies of the resolution will be circulated to honourable senators. 
-May I say,  Mr President,  that I am grateful that your years of service in the Senate have not dimmed your eyes so that you cannot see this far back in the chamber. I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. No doubt the Minister is aware of the engineers' strike which is tying up a great deal of shipping to and from Tasmania and which is now resulting in considerable loss of employment in Tasmania. Will the Minister say what action the Department has taken to try to relieve this burden which affects Tasmania so unfairly? Will he confer with his ministerial colleagues with a view to having Tasmanian bound ships exempted from such a tie-up in any similar situations which may occur in the future? 
Firstly, if I may, I would like to congratulate those new senators who have made their maiden speech. This is the first time I have spoken since many of them have made their speeches and I would like to say that I was very impressed by many of them from both sides of the House. I would like also to say something very briefly about my general attitude in this Senate, if the Senate will bear with me. While I do not regard the Government's small winning margin in the House of Representatives as constituting a very firm mandate, it remains true - 

 Senator TOWNLEY  If the honourable senator would be quiet and not get his feathers ruffled quite so often he might learn and not lay so many eggs. It remains true that the Whitlam Government is charged with the same executive responsibility as it had before the election. To oppose its legislation just for opposition's sake would, I believe, be to act irresponsibly. The Bill that we are dealing with tonight is of course the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973.  Mr Daly,  the Minister for Services and Property, when introducing the Bill in the other place on 10 July said: 
The Australian Labor Government is more determined than ever to ensure that the permissible variation in numbers of electors between electorates which is presently allowed should not be permitted to remain in force. 
I wondered when I read that why the Minister should be more determined than ever. I have always been a little bit suspicious of any government that would take the opportunity of using its brute force of numbers to force something through rather than use persuasion to sway this House.  Mr Daly  also said on that same day: 
The essential purpose of the Bill is to ensure that a greater degree of equity is introduced into and retained in the Australian electoral system. 
I am not sure that this will be the effect of the Bill. Let us have a look at what the likely outcome of this Bill will be. What have we seen so far? In the last 18 months we saw a redistribution in Western Australia, which was due following the last census. We also saw a redistribution in the Australian Capital Territory. Both resulted in a win for the Government. It won 2 extra seats and almost won another in Western Australian when a  Mr Reece  was nearly elected to the House of Representatives. Perhaps this is why  Mr Daly  sees the urgent need to alter the system. One Labor member of this place has already said to me that he does not think that this Parliament will go its full term, and at times I am inclined to agree with him. But perhaps the Government wants to alter the system so that if there is a swing against it in the next few months any redistribution will favour it and make it a little easier for it to get back into office.  Senator Mulvihill  said a little while ago that this is a normal adjustment. I do not see that it is a normal adjustment at this stage. History shows that there is no need yet for a redistribution. A redistribution is due, I think, in a couple of years if it follows the usual 10-year pattern. Admittedly we now have a 5-year census. Perhaps therefore we should have a major redistribution every 10 years and a minor one in the States that require it every 5 years. If this Bill is passed I think we will see 2 things. I think we will see, firstly, a need for a redistribution every 3 years. The effect of this first trick, which is what I would call this Bill, I think, will be that Labor will be in office for at least another 12 years. Although a Labor senator interjects 'Hear, hear' to that, and I am sure that they all would say it - 
-It was not you,  Senator Mulvihill;  you have had your mention. This Bill, I feel, is being introduced for selfish party motives which will lead to a possible gerrymander that can be arranged every 3 years. 
-That is the honourable senator's judgment. I have not been really in accord with some of the honourable senator's judgments over the last few weeks, either. Now we get onto whether the Government has a mandate to do this. At the last election the Government's share of the vote for the House of Representatives election fell and its majority in that House was reduced in spite of the fact that it won extra seats in the Australian Capital Territory and Western Australia. It did not win control of the Senate in spite of one of the senators opposite having promised all sorts of ministerial jobs and such saying that Labor would win 6 Senate seats in Tasmania and all this rubbish. 
-I am not saying that one party did not lose. I am saying that the Labor Party did not win and it lost four out of four referendum questions. 
I am dealing in facts. The Government put up 4 referendum questions last time and it lost the four of them. It could not have done better if it had been trying. Let us talk about what would happen if this Bill were put up at a referendum. I know what would happen to it. The people of Australia would kick it out on its ear.  Senator Mcintosh  is interjecting. He has not been here long enough to interrupt. 
-I know, but I cannot understand you. 
-I will never be able to understand you. 
-I preface my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister in this place by pointing out that Tasmania has taken just about all it can in the way of penalties due to recent mainland industrial disputes. My question relates to the present strike by meteorological officers. If the strike escalates to involve those meteorological officers who forecast the weather for civil aviation, will the Prime Minister intervene so that flights to and from Tasmania are not interfered with because, as I have said, Tasmania has had just about all it can take from these disputes due to mainland industrial action? 
I will state briefly my position in relation to this Bill. I have said publicly that I am against these health Bills. 
-That may be your opinion. If you interject would you speak a little louder so that I do not have to take quite so long replying to interjections? 
-That is what I need. A former colleague of mine had one. 
-Is the AttorneyGeneral able to assure members of the Senate that the telephones of senators and other members of Parliament are not being bugged, and have not been bugged during the term of Labor's office? Will the Attorney-General inform the Senate as to what conditions need to be fulfilled before tapping of any telephones takes place? Who is the officer or Minister who authorises any tapping? Further, will the Minister, when he is considering appointing a judicial inquiry into the matter of the Coogee telephone bugging incident, extend the terms of reference of the judicial inquiry to include all aspects of telephone tapping in Australia? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security able to explain the rationale which allows a married pensioner couple only $6 a week additional pension while a single pensioner will receive an additional $5? What will be the difference under the new pension rates between the amount received by a couple and that received by 2 single pensioners? 
The Senate is discussing the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill and the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. The implications of this Bill are fairly fearful for my State of Tasmania. Quite a lot of the income of the people of that State comes from mining. This is particularly so for those people who live on the west coast and those who work at the zinc works in Hobart, as well as those who work at the aluminium refinery in Launceston and in other areas. At the outset I would like to say that I doubt very much whether direct participation by the Government in this kind of venture is necessary. I do not think it has been shown that the Government needs to interfere with the exploration for either petroleum or minerals. However, if we are to have an authority I suggest that the Government could say that it has ample precedent for its establishment. The precendents I would like to mention are the Australian National Airlines Commission, which runs Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd, and, of course, the Commonwealth Banking 
Corporation, both of which compete on fairly even terms with  other  business enterprises around the country. I agree with some of the things that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said in relation to some aspects of this situation. On 12 July this year the Prime Minister said: 
You will perceive 2 constant themes in our mineral and mining policies-the preservation of Australian ownership and the maximising of benefits to the Australian people from the sale of our natural resources. 
I would agree, to a certain extent, with that kind of thinking. On that same day he also said: 
.the Australian people deserve to receive a good and proper share of the income from these resources. 
With that I also agree. He then went on in the same speech to say: 
Apart from exploration and development, there is a distinct need for the national Government to help smaller Australian mining ventures develop their discoveries without sacrificing control or ownership to overseas interests. We have a further obligation to examine and develop all sources of energy, including solar energy, which could contribute to our needs when more conventional sources are no longer available. The funds of the new Authority will promote the search for petroleum and help to ensure that future on-shore mining development is at least predominantly Australian owned and controlled. 
I would agree, to a certain extent, with trying to retain a fair degree of Australian ownership. But my worry about this whole thing is the same as that which I expressed in relation to the Health Insurance Bill, namely, the tremendous cost that will be involved to the country. These sorts of schemes are all very well when they are written about and spoken about, but when it comes down to the facts we find that they are quite expensive. It is my feeling that if we have available in this country the money that will be needed to implement these schemes it certainly could be used in more urgent areas of need than this. For instance, just last night we saw the Government welsh on its election promise to phase out the means test. The other measures that were announced last night could lead to thousands of people being put out of work. So I do not know where we will get the money from to do those things that this Government would like to do under this Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
Since the Labor Government came to office we have seen almost a vendetta against one of Australia's greatest money spinners, namely the income derived from exports of our mineral ores and things of that nature. I have never been able to understand why the Government has adopted this attitude. I believe that it is a matter which it has not thought through to the entire end result. At this time, Australia produces about 70 per cent of its own petroleum needs. We certainly need more exploration to continue to be able to produce this percentage of our needs in the future. But if this Bill is passed in its present form I think it will leave Australia in a situation in which we could well not be self-sufficient in petroleum needs in the years to come and have to import oil from the Middle East or from some other areas. Then, we will be placed in the position in which other countries are presently placed, namely, that their inflation is imported inflation due mainly to the extra cost of their petroleum and oil. We have heard it stated in this country that our inflation is being imported. I do not agree with that. I think that most of our inflation has been generated in this country. 
If we are to have such a Petroleum and Minerals Authority, it must be placed on an equal footing with all the other companies that are looking for oil throughout the country. As the Bill stands, this Authority could disregard and override State legislation. It could disregard and override the rights of mining tenement holders and other land owners. In fact, it would be placed in a very privileged position. The Authority would be in a very special situation to obtain confidential information. It would be in a position of positive privilege compared with the remainder of the industry. It would not even have to operate under the same laws. I feel that the legislation should make it perfectly clear that the proposed Authority is subject to the same laws and regulations as those which apply to any other person with an interest in petroleum or any other mineral exploration and development. We heard the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  say in his second reading speech on the Bill: 
The Government's policy is to expand the search for and facilitate the development of the nation's resources of hydrocarbons, particularly crude oil, and also of other minerals. We plan participation in this task through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, a truly national instrumentality, both operating itself and also in partnership with technologically qualified private enterprise. 
Instead of being described as a truly national instrumentality, I think that it would have been much better described as an instrument of nationalisation. Recently we have seen the invoking of a dormant provision in the 20-year- old Atomic Energy Act. It was used to take possession of the Ranger uranium deposits in the Northern Territory. If I may make an aside here, we are now coming to the stage of energy use throughout the world at which if uranium is not used fairly soon, there will be new techniques in the use of heavy water to produce power and the uranium that we now have may be completely useless. So we should be using these deposits now. But this Government has seen fit to attempt to nationalise this deposit in the Northern Territory. So I cannot be convinced that this Government will not use the provisions in this Bill whenever it wants to do so. As I have said, the Bill completely overrides and flouts State laws. It will be used to override mining agreements and it represents another attempt to get control for Canberra. We have seen 6 referendums in 6 months returned with a ' no ' vote which is a fairly positive indication, to me anyway, that the people of Australia do not want a lot of extra power to come to this part of Australia. 
I want to be short in my remarks today because we have a fairly heavy legislative program ahead of us. I repeat that if we are to have such an Authority as is contemplated in this Bill, it must be made to compete on equal terms and such is not the case in this Bill. The Bill does not allow for equal competition. In fact, as I have said, it puts the private sector at a distinct disadvantage. It is put at such a disadvantage that I would not be surprised if this were sufficient to deter the private sector from further expansion. I would expect that the initiative and endeavour of that sector would disappear. I ask myself: Is this what the Government really wants?  Senator Scott  said earlier in this debate that this Bill represents the thin edge of the wedge of nationalisation. With that I agree. In my opinion, this Bill is hurriedly and badly drawn up. It is unfair and it gives the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  enormous powers. I repeat that it is a danger to my State of Tasmania. I cannot support the Bill and as I agree that there is some doubt about the legality of whether this Bill could be used as one upon which to hold a double dissolution, I will support the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
The Senate has nearly completed its consideration of the Bills that it has dealt with on previous occasions. Before I finish my remarks today, I would like to repeat that my attitude from now on will not be to oppose Government legislation just for the sake of opposition. I believe that the Senate is meant to represent the States and is meant to be a House of review. I have already made it quite plain that I am worried about the time that is required by one person to deal with all the facets of this job- to look at the legislation, to deal with the Press which naturally enough wants to know what is going on, to deal with those people from my own State who want representations made to Ministers, and so on. Therefore, I state that I will only deal with legislation in the future after I have had a chance to examine it fully. If in doubt, I will vote against such legislation or for measures that delay it until 
I have had a chance to examine the legislation satisfactorily. (Quorum formed). 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. How much money will the Government save by breaking its election promise to abolish the means test? Could not some of the extra money-the $ 1,500m or $2,000m-ripped off the taxpayer in extra tax be used to keep its promise to abolish the means test? 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in a speech in the House of Representatives on 23 July 1974 stated: 
One of the problems in dealing with inflation is that everyone wants it beaten but everyone also wants his own activities to remain unaffected. Everyone favours general restraint but still wants particular expenditure. There is no way- I repeat, no way- in which inflation can be beaten which will not involve discomfort for a short while for the community as a whole. 
-The answer is three. I have told the honourable senator that many times. If he cannot remember that the number is three, he should go back and get Aborigines to help him learn to count. We have been placed in this Senate by the people of Australia to decide collectively what is best for the country. The people of Australia want some positive leadership. I cannot justify in my mind the amount of the increase of 38 per cent or $5,500 or the timing of this proposed increase. 

 Mr President, I will restrict myself to the discussion of the amounts involved in respect of members of Parliament and I will not refer to the recommendations in regard to heads of departments or any of the other categories dealt with in the report. Australia in my book is approaching an era that is comparable with that of 1929. It is perhaps worth mentioning once again that at that time there was also a Labor government in office. We have heard the Government say, via  Mr Crean,  again on 23 July in a speech which to me sounded as if it had been written to contain upwards of 10 or 12 important measures but on reading it one can see that it does not contain anything which is anti-inflationary- it seems that Caucus got at it and cut out a few of the proposals in it. That may not have been so, but it was certainly the way it sounded when  Mr Crean  stated: 
I say without exaggeration that the Australian economy now faces a highly dangerous situation. 
Further on he said: 
We have a wages explosion which is damaging everyone, and wage-earners as well. 
The 'Sydney Morning Herald ' of today states: 
Who can now take the Federal Government seriously when it plaintively bleats- as no doubt it will continue to do- for restraint in making wage claims? It has dangerously undermined its own moral authority by agreeing to a massive increase for members of Parliament. 
Further on the newspaper stated: 
The decision, of course- as is already evident- will have a most unfortunate effect on public opinion generally, and specifically on trade-union opinion. 
Two comments from prominent trade-union leaders can be considered typical. One declared that any Government plea for restraint would be treated with the contempt it deserves. The other said that the metal workers would be prepared to settle their dispute if they could have a $ 1 10-a-week increase as well! 
I know that some people may say that you do not have to take a salary increase. Of course you do not. None of us have to. But that is not the point at issue here tonight. The point at issue is very simple. It is whether we collectively as a parliament are prepared to show the people of Australia that we are serious about beating inflation. I will not be a party to starting the big pay robbery of 1974. 
If this motion is passed I ask: How can we refuse the unions their demands which, by comparison, are quite small? How can we have the gall to ask anyone for moderation? It is clear that at the moment wage increases are outstretching productivity increases and the Government in its term of office has done very little to discourage this. I say that now is the time to start. If we do not I see 2 things happening. I see inflation galloping ahead from a new and higher base to an impossible level with perhaps half a million people out of work. Secondly, I see the end of the Labor Party's term in office just around the corner. Honourable senators can read into that anything they like, but if there is an election ahead of its due time I suggest to the Labor Party that it remember this day. 
-The psychology of these increases, however - 
-Look, I have called you a rabbit before. I suggest that if myxomatosis came in through the door of the chamber he would want to go for his life. I will not go around and name the menagerie, but if honourable senators want to be personal about this, I too will be personal. 

 - Mr President, I point out that I have had things said against me that are quite untrue. I would spend a lot more hours at my parliamentary work than would  Senator Devitt.  I heard that the Labor Party wanted a vote on this matter tonight, but if it wants me to go on I am quite prepared to stay here. 
-Do you know what a squirrel is? It is a little round furry animal. Squirrels were mentioned today. I did not know who was meant but I am beginning to find out. Parliamentarians are already in the top 2 per cent or 3 per cent of the salary earners in this country. There is no way that I shall support this increase in salaries. I will be supporting the motion moved by  Senator Wright. 
Question put: 
That Part ( 1 ) of  Senator Wright's  motion  be  agreed to. 
-Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister able to confirm that the VIP aircraft fleet is soon to be equipped with two 707 aircraft for the Prime Minister's use and that these aircraft are to come from Qantas Airways Ltd at a cost of about $20m? Will the Minister confirm that the cost of outfitting and running these aircraft will be of the order of $12m each year? Has the Prime Minister asked that these 140-seat aircraft be ready for his 6 weeks' overseas tour in December? Will the marking on one of the aircraft be 'Air Force 1 '? Does the Minister appreciate that there is no need for very expensive communication equipment in these aircraft, as is the case with the aircraft of the  President  of the United States of America, because when our Prime Minister is overseas the  Deputy  Prime Minister acts as Prime Minister, with full authority of the Prime Minister? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Further to my question of Tuesday about the proposed purchase of two 707 aircraft from Qantas Airways Ltd for the VIP fleet, I ask: Does the Minister appreciate that the cost of running these aircraft- about $12m a year- would be about 3 times the annual cost of all salaries of members of the Senate and the House of Representatives? 
Does the Minister not consider that such expenditure at this time is against common sense and in fact represents a gross extravagance? Will the Minister arrange to table, prior to the Budget and the examination of the RAAF estimates, correspondence concerning this matter which has taken place between the Government, the Royal Australian Air Force and Qantas so that we may see to what stage it has progressed? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That all correspondence and any other papers that have passed between the Government, the Royal Australian Air Force and Qantas Airways Ltd relating to the purchase by the Royal Australian Air Force of any aircraft from Qantas Airways Ltd to be used as VIP aircraft, be laid on the table of the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer name the areas of inflation that have been' imported'. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General have the length of the'pips' that are heard at the beginning of a subscriber trunk dialled call reduced to a more reasonable length. 
-I seek leave to make a brief statement. 

 -Mr President - 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
When will the Postmaster-General's Department introduce push-button telephones into Australia. 
I ask a question of  Senator Bishop  in his role as Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. My question relates to unemployment in Tasmania. Is the Minister aware that Tasmania now has the highest rate of unemployment in Australia and that the rate is just over  Vh  per cent of the work force and rising? Will the Minister say whether any special action is being contemplated by the Government to help reduce this Tasmanian unemployment that causes so much concern to those affected, particularly at this time of exponential inflation? 
Firstly, I would like to congratulate both  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Greenwood  for the way in which they have handled the amendments that have been discussed before this one. I think that it has been of credit to the Parliament on a complicated Bill like this one to have seen such cooperation from the Government. It is good to see the Opposition agreeing with the Government, and it is good to see that the Government recognises that a lot of the Opposition's amendments are of some value. Perhaps if this kind of cooperation were to occur more frequently we would not hear the sort of unfounded criticism which  Senator Everett  made towards the end of his speech that the Opposition was being entirely obstructive. 
The Senate is discussing the suggested deletion of Part V of the Trade Practices BDI, which contains what are known as the consumer protection clauses. As far as I can ascertain, the Opposition has based its argument on the fact that this legislation will override State legislation. That is as may be. Most probably my independent colleague would say that the Opposition was being bloody-minded, to use his most headlinesearching expression. I hesitate to call him my junior independent colleague, because he has been in Parliament - 
-Do they? Well, I hesitate to call you my junior independent colleague. If I may quickly make an aside, I would like to say to  Senator Hall  that he should remember the saying: 'He has a right to criticise who has a heart to help'. Since  Senator Steele  Hall has been a member of the Senate he has expressed a lot of criticism of the Liberal and Country Parties, but I have yet to detect 'the heart to help'. He has criticised without expressing the desire to put forward alternative constructive suggestions. I suggest to  Senator Hall-  and this is all I would like to say because I am trying to be constructivethat unless he has alternative constructive criticisms to put forward, the destruction that he brings may fall upon himself. 
-He is doing very well in terms of headline inches, sure. 
-You say he is good. I have never heard him say that he is good and I am not about to say that he is good. 
1 doubt whether anybody in the Labor Party at the moment would be prepared to say that  Senator Hall  was not good. I return to the clauses under consideration. The 
Opposition has put forward a point which I would like the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to clear up. Will this legislation override State legislation and lead to a mess that will be to the detriment of a lot of people in Australia? What will happen to small claims that are presently dealt with by the small claims court in those States where small claims courts exist? What can the Government do about small claims that are made under this Act when one remembers the limitations placed upon the Federal Government by the Constitution? Will the Federal Government attempt to co-operate with State agencies that at present deal with this Act? They are some of my prime queries. If the Government can satisfactorily answer these questions, I will support the passage of these clauses. 
I remind the Senate of what we are dealing with in these clauses. Clause 52 provides: 
1 ) A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in conduct that is misleading or deceptive. 
I do not think that many people can disagree with that proposition. Clause 53, under the heading of False representations', provides: 
A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, in connexion with the supply or possible supply of goods or services or in connexion with the promotion by any means of the supply or use of goods or services- 
falsely represent that goods or services are of a particular standard, quality or grade, or that goods are of a particular style or model; 
b) falsely represent that goods are new; 
I do not wish to deal with every one of these clauses. They deal with such matters as bait advertising whereby a corporation advertises to supply special goods, runs out of them and says it had only a few, but thereby induces people to come along and to buy at a higher price. Speaking briefly, another clause relates to accepting payment without intending to supply as ordered, and clause 60 relates to coercion at a place of residence. I think that most people in Australia would agree that if these things are happening they are bad practices. We all know that pyramid selling has been the downfall of a lot of people recently in this country. 
I want to be brief because we have a lot of other legislation that I understand the Government wants dealt with before the end of the current sessional period. I think other honourable senators will deal with other aspects of these clauses but I find it hard to disagree with all the facets of this Part of the Bill. I think they are worthy of my support provided that the Government can give me some details about the points on which I requested information. 
I point out that we have just voted for some amendments because we did not think that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development should have a say in respect of certain road grants. We thought that he should deal with the Minister for Transport and that the Minister for Transport should then take up the matter with the States. Likewise in this case I do not see why we should bring into a Bill which relates to road grants the right of the Minister for Northern Development to interfere in this matter. Therefore I will be voting for the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What has been the cost of hiring aircraft from Qantas Airways Ltd for overseas VIP trips since 1 January 1 973. 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question relating to the recently announced increases in Australian National Line freight rates. Does the Minister realise that, unless Tasmania receives some special consideration by way of a special subsidy to equalise Tasmanian freight rates with those that exist between States connected by road and rail as was promised by  Mr Whitlam  during election campaigns, Tasmanian industries could well sink under these continual freight increases, with a consequent detrimental effect on the Government's decentralisation aims and a worsening of our already bad unemployment situation? Will the Minister insist that the ANL does not implement the latest proposed rises at least until the current Nimmo inquiry is completed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) To which Department is the cost of catering on VIP aircraft charged. 
What was the cost of catering during 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What has been the total cost of decorating the interiors of VIP aircraft, since the Labor Government came to office. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What VIP aircraft have been purchased since 1 965. 
What was the cost of each of the aircraft purchased. 
What was the date of purchase of each aircraft. 
Have any of the aircraft been sold; if so, what were (a) the dates of the sales and (b) the sale prices. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer able yet to anticipate what inflationary effect will follow the devaluation of the Australian dollar? In other words, what extra percentage of inflation, over and above the 20 per cent increase that we already anticipate, can we now expect following this move to devalue the Australian dollar? 
-It is my contention that the increases in Post Office charges sought by these Bills are savage and inflationary and could lead to a possible reduction in revenue, particularly in the postage field. If there is not a reduction in revenue then there will certainly be a reduction in the number of items handled by the Post Office. As  Senator Lawrie  and  Senator Durack  have both said, there is no doubt that some small increase in postage rates is justified. I do not think anyone would argue against that. But the increase in the basic letter rate from 7c to 10c, more than a 40 per cent increase, is a cost inflicted on the community far in excess of what I feel is necessary. Considering the rate of inflation we have in the country today it is completely undesirable. It was proposed, I believe, in the Vernon Committee report that the postage rate be increased to 10c over a period of 3 years, not over 5 months. I have been talking about standard letters but a consideration of non-standard letters shows that there is little logic in those charges, which are out of proportion with the basic letter rate. 
The charge that the present increases are due to the Senate's action a few weeks ago is, in my opinion, so much rubbish. I think  Senator Durack  produced figures which point this out quite well. The Government is using the Post Office simply as a taxing authority and its action will have the result, as I have already said, of reducing the number of letters being posted or of having mailing costs passed on by people who use postal services for their accounts and things of that kind. It could lead to a dramatic decrease in things like birthday cards and Christmas cards, which in themselves are becoming quite expensive. When that cost is added to the 10c it will cost to post them the total cost will become prohibitive for many people. 
These increases will have an obvious effect on inflation. They also will have an obvious effect on unemployment. One example of where their effect on unemployment may become obvious is in the printing industry. We have these huge increases made at a time when the service of the Post Office is on the decline. It is at a very low ebb. We have only 5 home postal deliveries in a week instead of the 1 1 we had a couple of years ago. A lot of the letters we post are taking a tremendous amount of time to reach their destination. So we have Post Office service at a very low ebb being provided at a very high cost. 
I return now to dealing with non-standard items which I do not think were dealt with fully today. If I were to post a book weighing about 500 grams from Hobart to Sydney it would cost exactly 48c under these new charges, but if it weighed 1 gram more it would cost $1.15. To post something weighing 50 1 grams to Brisbane would cost $1.35, yet I believe that I could send that same article to Europe for $ 1.35. In this and a couple of other cases the customers is not being considered very fully by the Post Office. The logical solution is to abolish the distinction between standard and non-standard articles or at least take the weight of non-standard articles under the basic rate up to 1 kilogram. At present we have 4 grades between zero and 500 grams. It would be very easy to have a progression to, say, 750 grams which may cost something like 67c and then to 1 kilogram which may cost 90c This would encompass one of the busiest areas of package traffic. In my opinion it is unfair to lumber the public with an arbitrary high minimum which, as I have said, would be $1.35 for an article over 500 grams to be sent from Hobart to Brisbane. 
One other matter I want to deal with is that of Post Office boxes. I believe that the box service is almost as much a convenience to the Post Office as it is to the public. Of course there should be a charge for them but nothing like what we are approaching these days. Here too we see the Post Office being designed as a taxing medium- part of the old socialist ethic that if people are in business they can afford to pay. The Post Office is approaching the time when it will be in danger of killing the goose that lays the golden eggs because I think people are likely to make less use of Post Office services. The principal statistics of the annual report of the Postmaster-General's Department for 1974 on page 5 show that the number of postal articles handled dropped during last year. Also the number of postal articles carried by air in Australia dropped by something like 5 per cent. The number of telegrams within Australia also dropped last year- most probably due to the price increases that we saw- at a time when most things in this country are supposed to be increasing. All I can say is that I hope the next government that is in office looks critically at these rates and attempts to reduce them wherever possible. 
I could have applied those remarks just as easily to the increase in telephone costs. I think that they are too high. I was going to say disgraceful but maybe that is a little too strong. I hope that they will be very carefully considered by the next government. Perhaps I am being a little parochial, but I think it is time that the Post Office looked at the possibility of neglecting the width of Bass Strait when charging for trunk line telephone calls from my State of Tasmania and also for the rental of the television links between Tasmania and the mainland so that Tasmania can link up with the other States for certain programs and news events. I believe that there is a spare link that could be used by commercial television if the rates were somewhat reduced. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Treasurer aware of the sales potential of an Australian silver dollar, if such a coin was available. 
Will the Treasurer consider having a silver dollar minted annually or at selected times to commemorate special events. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral a question relating to the increased PMG charges. Is the Attorney-General aware that under the common law where a fee for service is paid in advance this constitutes a contract and the fee cannot be altered until the contract expires? I ask: Do not telephone rentals and mail box rentals paid in advance constitute a contract between the renters and the PostmasterGeneral's Department? Does the AttorneyGeneral feel that the Postmaster-General should not be allowed to ignore such contracts until they, are at an end? 
-Today in this Budget debate I shall deal with 3 basic things which are of importance to  my State of Tasmania, which I could term as the State most neglected by this Government. Over the last few weeks we have seen a neglect of Tasmania by the Government in things like the 25 per cent increase in the Australian National Line shipping costs. We have seen neglect in Tasmania of the textile industry. Generally in the Budget Tasmania hardly gets a mention. Certainly I do not think it gets the special treatment which an island State requires these days. In a Budget which sees the arts get an additional $6m, which is an increase of some 40-odd per cent, practically no attention is given to Tasmania. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  talks about subsidising freight rates only when he is forced to do that. But before dealing with the 3 topics on which I want to touch I mention briefly 3 words which this Government has managed to make dirty. It has managed to make defence a dirty word. It has downgraded that most important aspect of our government responsibility. The amount of $ 1,300-odd million which is to be spent on defence is a decrease when we consider the increase by inflation- 
It is a decrease in the amount if we allow for inflation. 
In many ways this Government has made defence a dirty word. Yesterday  Senator Hall  put it very well when he said that this wretched Government was deliberately ruining our defence capability. We are told by  Mr Barnard's  crystal ball that for 15 years we will not need defence. What we will have left after 15 years, if defence is allowed to fall away, will be a position where we cannot defend ourselves. We could easily be overrun. In my opinion  Mr Barnard  is not exerting his authority. I was going to say 'his strength', but certainly that would not be the word to define our ex-Deputy Prime Minister. 
Another word which this Government has made dirty is profit. This country has been built on the profit of private endeavour. I shall say more about that in a moment or two. I will point out also what I feel some members of the Government and others are trying to do to the country. The next dirty word is multi-nationals. When the Australian Labor Party wants to blame someone, quite often out comes that third dirty word. But what about the multi-unions? We see communist and left wing controlled unions asking their union representatives in this place to get the Senate to approve the amalgamations of unions. They claim that it would stop demarcation disputes. Theoretically there may be some merit in legislation which is designed to encourage single unions for each industry, for ease of administration, although the great centralisation of power would negate any benefits. The honourable senators say that there are too many unions in Australia. They say that this gives rise to demarcation disputes and that there would be fewer of these demarcation disputes if there were fewer unions. 
The fallacy of this argument can be illustrated by the fact that there have been numerous demarcation disputes within the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union which have led to industrial dislocation and standdowns since the amalgamation of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia and the Sheet Metal Workers Union into the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. One of the worst demarcation cases that we have had in Tasmania 's history occurred last year. It was a demarcation dispute at Renison Bell which is the biggest tin production area in Australia. It resulted in a considerable loss of income to the workers at Renison Bell. 
I can tell the honourable senator, to emphasise this point, that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union sent a telegram to the  Deputy President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 4 May. It said bluntly that this was a demarcation dispute. 
-It involved people within the same union at Renison Bell. 
-This is what was happening. 
It was within one union. Otherwise why would that union send a telegram saying that it was a demarcation dispute? You cannot convince any Tasmanians that amalgamations will stop demarcation disputes because we know from bitter experience that they will not. I do not think that these moves for amalgamation can be disconnected from the decision of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that unions charge their members 1 per cent of average weekly earnings. The AMWU has a membership of about 1 80,000. With fees of 1 per cent of average weekly earnings the annual income of that union is about $ 11.5m. That is about one-quarter of what the Tasmanian Government gets in taxation. If that amount is multiplied by the number of members that the union would be able to dragoon into its midst if allowed to do what it wants to do the enormous centralisation of power and money which could result is clear. The funds would be under the effective control of some self-confessed members of the various communist parties. I have in mind people such as Carmichael and Halfpenny or others of the the extreme socialist left forces. These people are committed to a foreign ideology and the principle that might is right without regard to others in the community. It is not the multi-national companies that we need to worry about in Australia as much as it is the multi-unions. 
I have been sidetracked by the Government's way of making certain words dirty but I say that the real dirty words in Australia now are socialism, inflation and taxation. The first of the 3 areas of the Budget with which I want to deal is housing, which is so very important to the young people of this country. As one of the youngest senators I will put a few points to the Government and any people who may be listening today. The second area relates to aviation costs to Tasmania and how there should be special fares for Tasmania. For the third point I want to say a little about what I consider is a cleverly connived collapse of our country. 
One cannot live on hope alone or live without it. Houses are not merely refuges from storms and tempests or places for rest and renewal. They are places where young married people are able to mould their lives along the paths of their own choice; they are places where they can mould the lives of their young children and where the love within a family can develop without the hindrance of pressures that intrude unless people have their own homes. Today I am talking mainly from the point of view of the hopes of our young people, married already, about to be married or at an age when marriage is just around the corner, even if they have not yet realised it. I say to these people that their chances of ever being able to afford a home of their own while this Government pursues the policies it is obviously prepared to pursue and which are quite obviously government policies are very slim indeed. I do not believe that this Government is interested in people having their own homes. They are against private ownership of any kind and they would like to see all houses owned by the state. Then the young people particularly would be forced to become tenants of the state. 

 Senator Gietzelt has told us of the increased provision in the Budget for housing. Under the 1973 housing agreement welfare housing this year will increase by 7 per cent at a time when we are suffering from inflation of over 20 per cent. The Government is setting up the Australian Housing Corporation, a new body to start all those housing functions that the Australian Government has constitutional power to implement. This will include direct lending to families for housing. So we see that almost half the small increase in housing expenditure will go to the new corporation at a time when the building industry is in a crunch situation. We will see the growth of another bureaucratic part of the government and an unnecessary addition to the steps towards further socialisation of this country. This Government has a deliberate policy of giving very little help for housing. I hope that the next government will come to immediate grips with the housing problem. My feeling is that every person should have a house in which to live. Every young person facing the prospect of marriage has a right to a home. Every honourable senator must be aware of the massive shortage of houses and places to live already existing before the real effect of the shortage has hit this country. Any senator who can go to his or her home State without being confronted with housing problems is very lucky indeed. 
One point that I feel should be made very clear to the people of Australia is that the lack of housing is not a temporary situation. People who have just reached voting age and intend to marry within the next three to five years may as well realise fully that in just 20 months in office this Government has reduced a relatively stable industry to its knees. Now that people cannot afford a house the Government has started the Housing Corporation so that it will build the houses and people will never be able to own a home of their own. Canberra has become a city full of dreams but those dreams do not allow for young people to own their own houses. 
The recent Budget has certainly been used as a political instrument that offers no hope to those people who do not yet have a house. Please get it clear that this is not a temporary measure. Do not think that in a few months it will be all right. I repeat that this Government does not want people to own their own homes. It wants to own the lot. I have not been referring to big flash houses. I have no intention of wasting the time of the Senate by talking about the problems of people other than those who are in need. I am concerned only with those people whose problem is of need, not of choice. I suppose that later in the debate a Government senator will jump up and produce a spate of figures to show just how much the Government is doing for housing. Those figures will be so much hogwash. The building industry is ruined at a time when more and more people need houses. They want to get away from their in-laws. They want peace and privacy in their own homes in the Australian tradition. The figures that the Government should be presenting do not relate to the number of houses that have been built but to the number that have not. Once upon a time films used to end with the hero and heroine marrying, settling down and living happily ever after. 
I would be glad to make  Senator Grimes  cry because I do not think he has much pity for the young people of this country who do not have their own nouses. He should look into the position one day and see just what a hole the Government he supports has put them in. In the old days films would end as I have said but that is not to be the way for many Australians, the purpose of whose lives is being frustrated. Many must be filled with hopelessness and misery. The simple reason is that this Government wants to restructure society. It wants to restructure it all right. As  Mr Hawke  says, it wants democratic socialism. That might be a nice sounding phrase but it is a dangerous idea put out by one of the dangerous men of Australia.  Mr Hawke  says that we can vote on the way we want things run. How can he get us to believe that would work when a lot of the unions do not even elect their officers by a secret ballot? 
Another of the Labor Party's dangerous men, in my opinion, is  Dr Jim  Cairns. He has done a great con job on the community. All of a sudden he is acceptable to some of the business community. How they can be so gullible as to trust him I do not know. Do they remember his past actions? Do they not know that he is only putting on a front? Do they not realise that he will help to destroy the community as soon as he possibly can? What is wrong with the business leaders? I reckon they are crazy to think that  Dr Cairns  will not continue on the path to socialism as quickly as possible. The more businesses that go broke and are forced out of existence the better that this mob that is in Government will like it. 
It is well chosen. I come back to housing. Many reasons are given for the shortage, but basically it is a lack of reasonable cost finance. Do not let anyone kid himself that the Government could not get interest rates down if it wanted to do so. Do not let anyone kid himself either that making housing interest tax deductable would help much. It would be much better to have 5 per cent interest with no deductions than it would be to have 1 1 per cent and some deductions which effectively lower the interest rate to, say, 8 per cent. Young people, many of whom voted for this Government, have been gypped and short changed by those whom they helped elect. I am continually getting letters about this matter. Many of the people who write admit that last time they voted for Labor. I am afraid that I am not able to offer them much hope as far as housing is concerned. 
Other speakers in this debate have mentioned the property tax. It is on again, off again. I do not know whether we are really sure that it is on again, but all it will do is add to the inflation of housing rents. Housing will then be in the double squeeze with shortages adding to increased rents, and landlords will have to make allowance for the 10 per cent tax on property. So that impost will put up rents also. This Government has done nothing for the young people of Australia with regard to housing. The building of homes should take absolute priority. The housing of people of all ages adequately should receive the active support of everyone in this chamber. Never let this matter be called a problem, particularly when referring to housing for the aged. 
The fact that our parents live for many years longer than used to be the case is surely not a problem, but something for which we should be thankful. Some fortunate older people are able to look after themselves. Some are able to find accommodation with their children. But an ever growing number of old people cannot for various reasons live with their children and cannot provide for themselves. We must continue to expand the facilities that are available to this group. During their ordinary lives this group has paid taxation and has done a great deal towards the development of this nation. Now is the time that we can repay them- in their twilight years. I cannot believe that it is impossible to build the houses that we need in this country. All it needs is a government with the will to do it. Then needs of our young people could hope that one day they will be able to own their house. 
The only practical way for people to travel to and from Tasmania is by air, and each time that air fares are allowed to increase, fewer and fewer people are able to travel and to visit friends oh this larger island. Fewer people are able to travel to Tasmania during their holidays to enjoy the benefits found in ourwonderful State. Perhaps  Senator Grimes  might even agree with me on that. I feel that Tasmania should be a tourist State. I have always contended that Tasmania should attempt to obtain a great part of its income from tourism. I have spoken on this topic previously. This Government seems to have a crazy outlook on how, where and by whom civil aviation should be used. I read recently in a magazine that 'Australia could not live without Qantas but it could live without  Mr Jones.'  He is our Minister for Transport who recently put up by 25 per cent the freight rates on goods carried by the Australian National Line to Tasmania. He is a Minister of the Government which is putting up the charges to the civil aviation industry. I do not intend to talk about Qantas Airways Ltd. I will restrict myself to the local airlines because they more directly affect Tasmania. One day soon I will have a go about Qantas, because civil aviation is a topic in which I have a great deal of interest. 

 Mr Jones and his Department of Transport decided to increase all the charges to civil aviation. Of course these will eventually be reflected in increased air fares. The fares to and from Tasmania are already becoming prohibitive for many Tasmanians. I feel that the Government should be considering the total effect on civil aviation and the people who travel with the airlines. The Government should remember the dollars that it gets from the tax on the profits of restaurants, hotels and motels, from the people who work in this type of place and from those who are associated with the travel industry. Civil aviation in Australia should not be looked at in isolation. The Government should consider the overall effect, particularly on Tasmania, because Tasmania is so dependent on air transport. As an example of how important aviation is and can be to one place, one need look only at Hawaii. I do not choose Hawaii because I think that it is a perfect place, but purely because it is an isolated place. Hawaii is dependent, as is Tasmania, to a certain extent on air transport, and without the airlines people in Hawaii would go broke. The people of Hawaii know that that is the situation. But what have they done? I believe that the cost of landing a Boeing 747 in Hawaii is US$ 1 50. To land the same aircraft at Sydney costs US$4,000. If that Jumbo had 400 people aboard, that would be US$10 each to land that aircraft at Sydney. 
I very rarely use this chamber as a means of advertising, but I will say our prices are some of the lowest in Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order!  Senator Townley  is not here to be asked questions by other honourable senators. Proceed with your speech. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I have been asked a question. I would like to answer it. Our prices are put up much later and by much less than prices are put up by anyone else. If  Senator Wriedt  visits Hobart when he has a spare moment I will show him just how low they are. 
-That is a Labor senator saying how low the city of Hobart is. 
-That is the attitude which these people in the Government have about all Tasmania. They could not care less about Tasmania. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The honourable senator was one of those making interjections. By making interjections he was disorderly. No point of order is involved. 
I will answer at some other stage the question asked by  Senator Wriedt.  I was talking about the tremendous cost of landing a Jumbo in Australia. I think that this is a punitive tax on one section of the community. When the Minister is summing up this debate, perhaps he will say whether this Government has ever had a round table conference in which all aspects of its income from civil aviation and associated spin-offs are taken into account, or whether it is simply putting up costs to the air travelling public because the Government feels that those people are a privileged group. I would like to see the Government carry out such an appreciation of the airlines situation in relation to Tasmania. More importantly, I would like to see a lower air fare structure for flights between Tasmania and Victoria, perhaps with a subsidy. 
I turn now to the third part of my speech which I have headed, 'A cleverly connived collapse. ' In 1972 the present  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, wrote in a book called 'The Quiet Revolution': 
Revolution in an advanced capitalistic country can only become a possibility if there is a serious economic crisis. 
I feel that that is happening in this country at the moment, and I believe that it is being done deliberately. I believe that  Dr J.  F. Cairns and some of his friends also are pushing this country headlong towards disaster and doing it knowingly I believe that he is aided and abetted by the  President  of the Labor Party,  Mr Bob  Hawke, and several others. They have generated a state of fear of the future in Australia and they have us headed towards a very serious situation. Many people have been saying these things privately for a long time, but it is time for them to start speaking out and being heard. 
A moment ago I tried to tell the young people of Australia that the housing shortage was a deliberately engineered plot and one for which no end is in sight. The same applies to the whole economic mess that this Government has engineered. It is not going to clear up until we have different attitudes from this or the next government. I feel that the inflation is deliberate and we have seen already that unemployment follows inflation as surely as night follows day. When there was talk a little while ago of a recession developing and it looked as though there would be unemployment, we were fed soothing words by the Government. When the stock market fell in a similar manner to the fall in the depression era, we were told that Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and ether shares were good buying. Then someone said that there was a credit squeeze and the Government insisted that there was not. For how much longer will this Government dishonestly try to fool and deceive the people of this country? 
When a scapegoat is looked for, the Labor people start trying to blame the system. This is a typical socialist tactic- to engineer a disaster and then blame someone else. In this case the Government is blaming the system. What is happening in Australia is this cleverly connived collapse, and the aim is total socialism or even communism. 
If  Senator Georges  wants to talk, he has come in too late. I dealt with interjectors a few moments ago and they have had their turn. I deal with interjectors only in the first 10 minutes I have in which to make my speech, and I have only 3 minutes to go. I have no time to deal with  Senator Georges.  We have to remember the first plank in the platform of the Labor Party.  Senator Georges  should remember this. The first plank in the platform is the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. Those are the words that all Australians should be keeping in mind. I know that I will not convince some of these solid Labor supporters; but I ask the people who swing, those who decide on which side of the chamber we sit, to take note of what this Government is doing. 
Bob Hawke has been asking for democratic socialism and this Government has been after it by indirect means- things such as high inflation, unemployment, tight credit, high interest rates and a lot of industrial disruption. These are the things that are leading to the economic crisis.  Dr Cairns  said that if there is to be a revolution in an advanced capitalist system it is essential to have an economic crisis, and that is where we are going. I do not need to tell honourable senators that I believe in free enterprise. It is still free enterprise which provides 75 per cent of the jobs in this country. It is from the tax on this system that the money is raised for education, social services and the like. I do not think we need socialism in Australia and I do not believe that this Government has a mandate to wreck the system. So what do we do? I suggest to those who are in favour of free enterprise that we have to modify it slightly and constantly in order to make it acceptable. 
-Neither is the honourable senator. We have to watch and ensure that this Government does nothing to further inflame an already disastrous economic situation. The people of Australia kicked out the socialists 25 years ago; but this time they are acting more cleverly, are better planned and are acting in a more patient way, and this should be pointed out to the public. However, their aim is the same- to develop an economic climate to facilitate the implementation of the first plank of the Labor platform. The Government was not elected on socialisation. If it wants such a mandate, let us have an election with that as the basis of the campaign. We anti-socialists have a responsibility to talk and argue against the socialists. If we do not, we may well lose. 
I beg the honourable senator's pardon. I have half a minute and I can take his interjection. 
I would be happy if it were not there. 
I have done that argument over already. Our prices are lower than anyone else's. If we do not speak out fairly soon we may well lose our prosperity and freedom, and it will be all because we would not stand up and fight. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-We are discussing a Bill to grant to Tasmania an amount that will enable it to withdraw as a claimant State to the Grants Commission. The purpose of the Bill is to authorise additional financial assistance to Tasmania and, of course, I am in favour of such action. In Tasmania there is urgent need for heavy financial assistance. Tasmanian industries are under tremendous wage and cost pressures, including freight cost pressures due to what I regard as the 'couldnotcareless' attitude of this Government, irrespective of what has just been said by  Senator Grimes.  In spite of the moneys that  Senator Grimes  has told us have been spent by the present Government, economic collapse could easily occur in Tasmania. We have the highest rate of inflation in the Commonwealth and certainly the highest unemployment. Tasmania is always the first to suffer from a credit squeeze but this time we have the added trouble caused by the reduced tariff on textiles and consequent unemployment, particularly in the Launceston area. I believe that in Launceston one firm has put off 600 employees this year. 
A couple of weeks ago I heard  Senator Rae  ask for the report of the task force on the unemployment situation in Launceston. I heard him ask for it again last night. It has not yet been presented to him or to the Senate. Yesterday's figures show that over 3 per cent of Tasmanians are out of work. Perhaps the Government is scared to release the report of the task force because it will show the effects of some of the Government's economic policies, particularly of the high interest rates. The present interest rates are the highest in the history of Australia and have come from a government that claims not to believe in high interest rates. I referred last week to those people who are lucky enough to own their own homes. They certainly cannot include our young people who will not be able to get houses until interest rates are reduced. Home owners have certainly felt the effects of the high interest rates that councils have to pay when they obtain a loan. Of course, they have to pass their expenses on to householders. I have been informed that even with very considerable increases in rates charged this year many councils will have to curtail some of their activities. I do not want to talk only about housing. I am quite sure that the Tasmanian Government could well use more than the $ 15m that this Bill will give it for expenditure on housing alone and even then we would not catch up. 
-How much was that? 
I still say that they could probably spend this $ 1 5m as well. 
The point has already been made tonight about the Premier asking for and getting just what he wanted- this $ 15m. He asked back in June. I think the Premier of Tasmania is known to be a fairly stubborn man. 
-He could very well insist that the Federal Government give him what he asks for because I do not think the Federal Government wants to see the spread of the tobacco tax throughout the Commonwealth. I think that is why he got what he asked for, and no other reason. In many ways Tasmania has been and still is a lucky State. We have clear skies a lot of the time and over many areas and we have ample water supplies to drive our electric turbines. We have good farmlands and forests and I hope that the Government will ensure that the forests are not destroyed by excessive chipping. We also have a couple of distinct disadvantages and on that point I am not in any way going to deal with governments that happen to be in office. Bass Strait is a natural disadvantage. It has proved to be a most expensive stretch of water.  Mr Whitlam  promised before the last election to equalise freight costs between Tasmania and the mainland, with the cost of rail freights on the mainland. Unless that is done we can easily foresee economic disaster for Tasmania. 
Recently an attempt was made to raise the Australian National Line, charges by 25 per cent. Over the years we have seen too many of these increases. Freight rates have been raised by people in Canberra who do not seem to know what effect the increases have on Tasmania. At times I feel that they do not care and in that category unfortunately I class our present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I do not think that until now he has really cared about the effects on Tasmania of increasing ANL charges. 
I am not saying anything about the increase. I am saying that it was done by people in Canberra and I do not think the Minister for Transport cares too much about what happens in Tasmania. 
-One at a time, gentlemen. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)- Senator Townley,  you will address the Chair and take the responses as opportunity offers. 
I will try to do that,  Sir. Another  disadvantage for Tasmania is that we have a very small population. It is not growing very rapidly. We have a small local market. If industries face high, costs in sending their goods to the mainland they are going to find their operations much more difficult. Many of our young people are tending to leave Tasmania. Maybe the bright lights of the bigger cities attract them. At least that is what I think may have been the attraction in the past. I think that over the next few months we may see them leaving for a different reason; they may have to leave to look for jobs. 
In spite of the money that Tasmania receives from the Federal Government, I feel that it is fading into a kind of economic oblivion. We have the highest inflation and the highest unemployment, and I think this has been brought about by this Government 's ' don 't care ' attitude. Maybe it is part of the deliberate process of socialisation or attempted socialisation by this Government. It appears to want to socialise everything from housing to farming. Maybe it wants Tasmania's industries to give up. I know of several that have given up already. Maybe Tasmania's present plight is just part of the Government's total plan to allow Tasmania to go down the drain. Much of Tasmania's income and its economy depends upon rural production and mining. Many of the smaller rural industries are in trouble because of the deliberate actions which have been taken by this Government which appear to be aimed at our rural community. The apple industry is one example of how a once flourishing industry has been allowed to collapse. It is an example of how a government run by union pressures, by the powerful trade unions, does not care about anything as small as Tasmania. The situation has got to the stage where  Mr Reece  is reported in today's 'Mercury' as saying that he is browned off with people from Canberra tramping their hobnails over the State. 
All I know is that it is quite easily read in the headline on the front page of today 's ' Mercury '. 
I can read the small print. I can read it even without my glasses on. 
-Wait a minute. If you remember, a moment ago - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)- Senator Townley,  you will address the Chair. 
-Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  A moment ago when  Senator Everett  was interrupted by  Senator Rae  during the course of his remarks he said that he intended to ignore  Senator Rae.  Now I am saying that, as much as I would like to answer his interjection, I will do so only if I get the opportunity. I would not be rude enough to say that I will ignore him. As I said, the headline in today's 'Mercury' states that  Mr Reece  said that he is browned off with people from Canberra tramping their hobnails over the State. I am inclined to believe that many people in Tasmania feel that way. I genuinely believe that some of the Labor members of the House of Representatives are extremely worried about the way in which Tasmania has been neglected by this Government. But they do not have a big enough voice in Caucus to cause any real change in the Government's policy. If the five of them were really serious they would just about have the numerical strength to force anything through the House of Representatives if they were to cross the floor. 
I do. It is the only private place I can find. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Townley, I ask you to confine your remarks to the States Grants Bill. 
I am sorry,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I was distracted again. We had a decent sort of spirit in the Senate earlier today and I am glad to say that it has prevailed this evening. Because of the way in which the Government has been handling the economy- I do not say that it has been bungling the economy because I believe that all that has happened has been carefully planned- it can be seen that it wants to restructure the way in which the country is run. I think Tasmania can look forward to retaining its dubious honour of being both the leader in the inflation race and the leader in the unemployment race. 
I feel that the $ 15m which this Bill provides will not be nearly enough and Tasmania will soon need to find another tax similar to the tobacco tax to rip a little more money from its citizens. I was asked a couple of days ago whether I thought inflation was a world wide thing, and my answer was that at first sight it may appear that it is a world wide thing- and to a certain extent it is- but in Australia I feel that we have been very responsible for our own inflation. I do not think we have been hit very much by imported inflation yet. Some countries which have to import all of their fuel oil, of course, would have their inflation rate increased because the cost of fuel oil has increased many-fold. But many countries which have to get all their fuel from outside in fact have lower rates of inflation than does Australia. Approximately 70 per cent of Australia's oil needs are locally produced. I feel that our inflation rate has increased mainly because of excessive government spending and increasing costs brought about by excessive union demands. Much of the inflation in Tasmania has been passed on fron union demands which have been made in the other States of the Commonweath. Just finishing off that point, I expect that real inflation is just about to start in this country. Although I could be wrong I genuinely fear for the future. 
At a time when this disastrous rate of inflation is raging in this country we see that the Government is intending to increase its expenditure by almost one-third. This, to me, will add to inflation. Many people today would prefer sizable tax cuts to an increase in government spending. But if there is to be an increase in spending then Tasmania should be getting even a better deal than the one it is getting now. It should be getting the special treatment that an island State needs. The worry that many people in Tasmania have was well expressed in the motion that was moved in Launceston yesterday and to which  Senator Rae  referred last night. It shows, in spite of many things, that there is anti-government feeling developing in Tasmania. The provision of $ 15m for Tasmania which was arranged back in June as a means of stopping the Tasmania tobacco tax should by now be increased almost $ 1 8m just to allow for inflation. But as this year goes on I think the State of Tasmania will need a great deal more than that. 
I was hoping  Senator Milliner  would come in today. If, because of the attention that the debate on this Bill has brought to the plight of Tasmania, the Government now really looks after my State, I will be more than grateful. But if that does happen, it will not be because of the actions of the Tasmanian members of the Government; it will be because of the pressure that other people outside the Government have applied to it. I will support the amendment. 
I would like to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is he aware that the new approved fees that Tasmanian nursing homes may charge are up to $13 a day and that unless some increase is made in the pensioner benefit subsidy many pensioners in Tasmanian nursing homes will be forced out of those homes? Can the Minister advise where the Government will look after these people if they are forced to leave? Has the Government any plans to increase the pensioner benefit subsidy paid to pensioners in private homes in Tasmania, and when does the Minister expect any such additional payments to be made? 
-Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister able to inform the Senate what high priced art works in the category of 'Blue Poles' are under consideration for purchase by the Australian National Gallery? Are such works to be bought through private negotiation? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is the Minister aware that examination of the various State statistics regarding housing shows that the Australian housing market has undergone a very large drop and as yet shows no sign of hitting a low? Is the 
Minister further aware that with the rundown of the building and supply sectors that we are now experiencing, when the Government does decide to reduce interest rates shortages and consequent higher prices will only add to the cost of buying or building a home? Does the Minister realise that in order to obtain a $20,000 building society loan a borrower must command a salary of almost $2 10 a week and thus a loan is out of the reach of most young people trying to buy a home? Finally, will the Minister ask the Government to review housing policy and take steps so that young people particularly can look forward to owning their own homes in the Australian tradition and not just being tenants of the Government? 
-I present the following petition from 70 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
The there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement at a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. What will be the amount of the pay-as-you-earn deductions that will be allowed during 1974-75 as interest deductions to those people buying their homes under the scheme recently approved by Caucus? What would home purchasers save in the same financial year if interest rates were reduced to the 1972 levels? Does the Minister agree that the Government should release more liquidity so that interest rates can come down because in that way home owners would be considerably better off than under the proposed scheme? 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Priorities Review Staffof the Minister's Department. 
What salaries are paid to the members of the staff. 
What are the qualifications of the members. 
What has been the cost of the Priorities Review Staff since its inception. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer have the Australian Taxation Office add interest to refunds that are made to 'pay as you earn' taxpayers; if so, will he have the interest paid from the middle of the period over which the tax is collected until its return to the taxpayer. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the deteriorating economic climate, with high inflation and the highest unemployment for more than 20 years, does the Prime Minister still intend to make his globe-trotting trip in the near future or does he intend to stay in Australia and attend to the problems of the nation? What will be the Prime Minister's itinerary if he does go overseas? How long will he be away? How many overseas trips has the Prime Minister made since assuming office? 
-I present the following petition from 52 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What would be the loss to the Treasury if the maximum rate of personal taxation was limited to 50 per cent, (a) expressed in dollars, and (b) as a percentage of the Treasury's total income derived from personal taxation. 
I would like to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Education. It concerns retraining grants. Will the Minister advise whether it would be possible for, say, the wife of a university professor earning about $28,000 per annum, she being in receipt of a sizeable private income, to apply for and receive a retraining grant? If the answer is in the affirmative, will the Minister say what means test, if any, is applied to such a person and indeed to anyone else? How much study has to be undertaken by the recipient? Over what length of time can a grant be received? What would happen if, at the end of such a retraining period, the person changed her mind? Would she be eligible to apply for another grant? Does she have to do any work in the field in which she is retrained? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. No doubt the Minister realises that a good deal of the present rate of inflation is caused by increasing food prices and no doubt he also realises that the pensioners in our community are the hardest hit by inflation. I ask: Because of the very high inflation rate we now have, will the Minister ask the Government once again to look at the pension rates and to increase them to an amount in keeping with the present cost of food? 
-I would like to take a few minutes of the time of the Senate to discuss under standing order 190 some of the things that were said by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  last week. Some people say that  Mr Whitiam  's moves are going to do a lot to restore business confidence. Some people feel that his actions represent a permanent change of heart by those who are presently running this country. Some people feel that others like Bob Hawke and  Dr Cairns  have changed their aim of total control. These moves will do practically nothing. How can a very small reduction of  2Vi  per cent in company tax boost business confidence? How can a very small reduction in income tax for the quarter of a million people who are presently running small businesses throughout Australia con them into expanding and employing more people when, on  Mr Whitlam  's own admission, the Government could again change course in its political and economic stream in a little while? Will the business people of Australia really believe that  Mr Whitlam, Dr Cairns  and  Mr Hawke  have changed? We must remember that this mini-Budget which was brought in last week was brought in only about 6 weeks after the Budget. In my opinion, we could easily see another change in a few weeks 'time. 
-What was that,  Mr Minister?  If honourable senators wish to have a go I am quite willing to answer them. 
I remember well the day on which I made that speech. It was not made in the evening, it was made in the afternoon. The point that I was making at that time was that the amalgamation of unions does not necessarily stop demarcation disputes. 
If you want to have a talk in a moment you are welcome to get your kilt or whatever you like and come back here - 
-The dispute that I was talking about occurred in Tasmania at Renison Bell, one of the biggest, if not the biggest, tin producers in Australia. It resulted in a considerable loss of production. The dispute was over whether boilermakers or fitters, who are both members of the same union, the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, should perform the work of cutting bolts. All the AMWU members went on strike when the company requested a fitter to cut off some bolts which were incidental to his fitting work. The strike led to a stand-down of production workers and, after many weeks, dismissal notices to the maintenance workers themselves. Wages and other matters were brought into the dispute but in essence it was a demarcation dispute. To emphasise this point the AMWU members in a telegram to the  Deputy President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 4 May 1973 said bluntly: 'This is a demarcation dispute'. That telegram and the circumstances surrounding this demarcation dispute may be found on the files of the principal registry in Melbourne. It was not until mid-May 1973 that the return to work was effected and at one stage it did look as though Tasmania would lose that industry. The point that I was making was that demarcation disputes can still occur within one union. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is he aware of the difficulties that were caused to the people of Tasmania by the disruption of air services during the last week? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to ensure in his dealings with pilots that inflammatory statements such as 'I don't care how long they stay out' are not used so that common sense and reason may prevail? Should the air war freshen, will the Minister recognise the very special needs of Tasmania and ask the airlines and the pilots to maintain services to Tasmania even if there is a stoppage of services to other places? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: Is he aware that only about 14 per cent of the $2.2m spent on the purchase of art by the National Gallery between the accession of the Labor Government and 1 3 December 1973 went towards the purchase of Australian art? Does the Minister not feel that if we are to spend such huge amounts of money on art at the present time it should be kept in Australia? 
-As a general rule I do not like undue government interference in the ordinary business affairs of the community. Honourable senators will realise that basically I do not like the general aims of a socialist government which seeks to control and interfere with as much business as possible. No matter what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said recently about how much he wanted free enterprise to be given a go, we must always remember that the aim of the Party now in control of the government benches in this place is control, and if possible total control, of most facets of the community. For that reason alone I think I would find it quite difficult to support the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2) which proposes to give the Broadcasting Control Board much more say. I find it difficult to support the Bill particularly because the Board has rarely needed to resort to the power that it already has. That is one reason why I would be against most of the proposals which are attempted to be brought in by the Bill that we have before us. 
We must also consider that the present Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  will not always be in charge of the Department that he now supervises with such obvious enthusiasm and interest. The Minister presently in charge of the media, I believe, is honest and reliable. As  Senator Hall  has said, we must admire the work that he has done in certain areas but the whispers that blow through the corridors of this place following  Mr Whitlam  's desire to get rid of  Mr Crean  which obviously lead to a flow-on effect, are that  Senator Douglas  McClelland may not be the Minister for the Media much longer. 
-He may be moved to something else. I said, if you had been listening  Senator Milliner  a moment ago - 
I thought you said sue. 
-Inflation has got to  Senator Milliner.  I have not got that many. 
-Senator Milliner does not know the law very well because in Tasmania one is only allowed to have three. 
-One can get lots of people to put them in but they make more money by working for someone else than as a partner. 
-Yes. I will come back to the Bill. Thank you very much,  Senator Keeffe.  We may not always have  Senator Douglas  McClelland in the position of being able to enforce or look at the regulations that come before - 
-No. I said that the whispers that go through this place indicate that he could well be. I believe that this Bill will fail to pass. I believe that it is one of the Bills that should fail to pass this place. In the hands of the wrong person the powers that would be given by this Bill would enable much of the freedom of the radio and television stations to be removed.  Senator Guilfoyle  earlier today ably demonstrated just now this could happen. The powers under this Bill could be coupled with some other ideas the Government has, for instance, moving into the area of a newspaper. These things give me the impression- it is a sinister impressionthat the Government is up to no good with regard to the total freedom of the Press and other media. 
We have to remember that in 1965 at its conference the Australian Labor Party decided to support the idea of a newspaper commission. We heard  Senator Douglas  McClelland say something about this by way of interjection a little earlier. But for all its faults, we do have at present a relatively free Press. Although it is not always extremely high quality Press, it is one that we do not want to see interfered with any more by the Government. The same applies to our commercial television and radio stations. If I had my way, that is the way it would stay. In fact, my opinion is that there has already been too much interference and too much control over the radio and television stations. I certainly will not be supporting any more administrative controls with the possible forcing down the necks of the television stations the official views rather than those at which they freely arrive. 
Those people of Australia who value our present standards will be grateful that the Labor Government does not have full control over this Parliament at times like this. If it did, we would see all sorts of government interference in all sorts of ways. Australia, I think, would be much the worse for such interference. The shortage of numbers of Labor members in this place is, in my opinion, saving Australia rather than frustrating the Government. This is one area in which I am sure that the people of Australia will be glad to see the Senate reject the Bill totally. In my opinion this Bill must be defeated. It is dangerous. It could well be a part of  Mr Whitlam  's Government's insidious plan gradually to stifle free enterprise and freedom of speech in Australia. Because of the dangerous nature of the Bill I feel that the Senate should toss it out. It is a dangerous start to a dangerous total plan put up by politically desperate people. I will be voting against the second reading. 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman,  I claim to have been misrepresented. Is this the right time for me to make a personal explanation? 
Yes, I do.  Senator Milliner  said that what the Opposition is suggesting in relation to clause 38 (b) of the Bill represents an attack on the friendly societies which is being spearheaded by someone in this chamber who owns pharmacies. That is just another indication of how  Senator Milliner  comes into this chamber ill prepared. He also said that that person is a member of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. I am not a member of the Guild. 
-Yes, I am presuming that he was. He has been very wrong in a lot of the things he has said about my ownership of pharmacies in the time I have been in this place. He somehow claims to be an expert when very often he does not know what he is talking about, and this is another case in which he showed he did not know what he was talking about because he indicated that I was a member of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. I am not. I have not spearheaded any of these amendments. In fact I did not know what amendments were proposed by the Opposition. I can see  Senator Milliner  chuckling. I did not know what amendments were going to be suggested this evening by the Liberal Party Opposition until about half an hour ago. I had no amendments of my own nor would I have suggested any amendments of my own. It is interesting to note that in all the votes that have been taken on this tonight I could have remained out of the chamber and the results would have been the same.  Senator Milliner  was very sloppy- I think that was one word he used- as he often is. He is a sloppy person and the research he has done tonight has been sloppy and he has misrepresented me. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it possible for the wife of a university professor, who is already in receipt of a sizeable private income, to apply for, and receive, a re-training grant; if so, what means test is applied in respect of such a person. 
For how long is a recipient permitted to study under the re-training scheme. 
3 ) Over what period of time can a grant be received. 
Is a recipient of a re-training grant eligible to apply for another grant if he, or she, changes his or her mind on the completion of the original re-training period. 
Are recipients of grants required to undertake any work in the field for which they were re-trained. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What will be the amount of pay as you earn deductions during 1974-7S that will be allowed as interest deductions to those taxpayers buying a house. 
What would house purchasers save in 1974-75 if interest rates were reduced to those applicable in 1 972. 
) Will the Treasurer increase the level of liquidity so that interest rates could be reduced for the benefit of house purchasers. 
I ask a question of the Attorney-General. How long has Professor Messel been a member of  Senator Murphy's  staff? What is his present remuneration? What special qualities does he bring to the Attorney-General's staff, what are his duties and what will be his additional remuneration now that he has been appointed a member of the Atomic Energy Commission? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What would be the cost of airfares if the Prime Minister's party travelled by commercial airlines during his forthcoming overseas trips. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What would be the cost of the Prime Minister's forthcoming overseas trips if BAC 1 1 1 aircraft of the VIP fleet were used. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Defence admit that the Royal Australian Air Force did in fact work out flight plans for the route proposed to be used by the Prime Minister in case the Prime Minister decided in his wisdom to use the Air Force BAC 1 1 1 s for his round the world trip? Is it a fact that had the Prime Minister chosen to use those aircraft the cost to the country would have been at least $200,000 less? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What has been the cost of hiring aircraft from Qantas Airways Ltd for use by the Prime Minister on overseas trips during 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What will be the cost of hiring aircraft for the Prime Minister's forthcoming overseas trips. 
) What will be the cost of these trips. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What will be the itinerary of the Prime Minister during his forthcoming overseas trips. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What will be the cost of hiring aircraft for the Prime Minister's forthcoming overseas trips. 
) What will be the cost of these trips. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many overseas trips has the Prime Minister made since assuming office. 
What was the date of departure from, and return to, Australia on each occasion. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What will be the itinerary of the Prime Minister during his forthcoming overseas trips. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What will be the cost of hiring aircraft for the Prime Minister's forthcoming overseas trips. 
) What will be the cost of these trips. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What will be the itinerary of the Prime Minister during his forthcoming overseas trips. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost of VIP aircraft for the use of, or used by, the Prime Minister in (a) 1972, (b) 1973 and (c) 1974 to 14 November 1974. 
-I would like briefly to state my attitude to these Bills. The Government is attempting to impose a levy by way of taxation to fund its health scheme. I repeat my opposition to these Bills. My basic reason for opposing them is that I am confident that at present this country cannot afford the cost of the grandiose health scheme that the Government has in its mind. At a time when the people around the country are saying that there should be a reduction of taxation, what do we find the socialist Government doing? It asks the Parliament to increase taxation further to finance a health scheme to which surveys have shown most people in Australia are opposed. One would think that the Government would learn that the Australian people prefer a gradual change to being forced to change from one system to another, the new one being of the type that all experience, everywhere in the world, has indicated will fail because it will become prohibitively expensive. 
Any health scheme should have several aims. It should provide universal access by all people to adequate care. It should offset the individual's financial burden but I believe that in many cases there should be a slight financial disincentive as it has been shown in other areas of the world that people tend to over use the facilities made available to them and in such a situation the cost of the health scheme becomes disastrously high. Any health scheme supported by a Government should encourage high standards of medical practice. It should allow the doctor to choose his patient and vice versa. Doctors should be able to practice their profession free of coercion. It should be conducive to the most efficient way of using the money we have available in this country. Of course, it should always protect the privacy of patients. 
When we are ill what most of us want is to be treated as quickly as possible by the doctor of our choice and at a reasonable cost. That is the real issue that has to be decided when discussing a health scheme. My opposition to the Australian Labor Party's scheme has not softened as time has gone on. I believe that fewer people than previously are now in favour of the scheme. The professional groups have maintained their opposition to it. The scheme as envisaged will mean the death of the private hospitals. Once the enthusiasm to run private hospitals is lost it will be virtually impossible to get those hospitals going again. It is my opinion that these private hospitals play a very important part in the health care of our community. Why the Government insists on attacking and destroying yet another private sector of the community when it knows the disaster it has created in areas in which it has meddled, I cannot fathom, but that is what it seems to be intent on doing. 
It should look hard and long at what has happened in other countries. The Canadian scheme failed. We all know what a mess they are getting into in Britain. We should tend to do the opposite of anything that is done there. Other countries, such as Sweden and New Zealand, have found tremendous difficulties with their health schemes. So I am totally opposed to this health scheme. 
I think it has been shown before that, with the honourable senator's woolly thinking, if evidence were produced it would not really matter because he would not be able to understand it. I think that this Government would be far better off modifying gradually the scheme that we now have rather than implementing this new scheme. At the moment it should be cutting expenditure. This is one area where it could easily cut back on some unnecessary expenditure. The fact that the Government intends to attempt to proceed with this scheme shows how hollow are its claims to be worried about the economy. If the Government were worried about the economy it certainly would not be going ahead with this scheme and certainly would not be going ahead with it at this time. ' 
The scheme will become a money-munching white elephant. I feel we will all live to regret this kind of scheme if it is ever allowed to become law. I suppose the mad socialists and theoreticians like to support this kind of scheme because it allows them to increase taxation a little more in this already over-taxed country. It allows them to rip a little more money from us. That, of course, is the socialist aim. Once more I say that taxation in this country should be reduced and not increased. There is no way that I will vote to support the increase of 1.3S per cent in taxation to fund this levy. In my opinion this scheme will further damage the economy of this country. It is based upon estimates of costs that have not been fully justified, at least not to my satisfaction. I agree that gradually we should improve or change the present scheme. The important word in that sentence is 'gradually'. Basically the present scheme is not too bad and with gradual modification it could be adapted in a much less expensive way than the way the Government is attempting. 
If the honourable senator does not know what I am talking about he obviously does not know much about the scheme. In my opinion the proposed scheme is not in the best interests of Australia. If a referendum were held I am confident that the people would toss it out by quite a large margin. Let it be quite clear that I believe that rejection of these Bills will give the Government basis for a double dissolution. If that be the choice of the Government, then let it be. I will be voting against the Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many overseas trips has the Prime Minister made since assuming office. 
What was the date of departure from, and return to, Australia on each occasion. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many overseas trips has the Prime Minister made since assuming office. 
What was the date of departure from, and return to, Australia on each occasion. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Ministers have travelled overseas since December 1972. 
How many trips have been made by each Minister. 
3 ) What has been the cost of each trip. 
How many persons accompanied the Ministers. 
What has been the total cost of overseas ministerial trips since the Government assumed office. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the practice of the Prime Minister to take a consultary physician with him whenever he travels overseas. 
Does the Prime Minister do this because some illness indicates that it is prudent for him to have a doctor with him at times of travel overseas. 
How many doctors have travelled overseas with the Prime Minister. 
How many overseas trips have the doctors made. 
What is the rate of remuneration paid to doctors travelling overseas with the Prime Minister. 
What has been the total cost of having a doctor travel with the Prime Minister. 
7 ) Was it the practice of former Prime Ministers to take a doctor with them overseas. 
-PARTY AFFILIATION 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the new approved fees that Tasmanian nursing homes may charge are up to $13.00 per day, and that unless some increase is made in the pensioner benefit subsidy many pensioners in Tasmania will be forced to leave private nursing homes. 
Can the Minister advise where the Government will look after these people if they are forced to leave. 
Has the Government any plans to increase the pensioner benefit subsidy paid to pensioners in nursing homes in Tasmania and other States; if so, when does the Minister expect any such additional payments to be made. 
Earlier in the day I asked a question of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration but it may come within the province of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Has the Minister for Manufacturing Industry noted the decision of the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia Ltd to cut production again at the zinc refinery at Risdon in Tasmania, leaving the refinery operating at 40 per cent below its zinc producing capacity? Has he noted that the company will cease the manufacture of superphosphate in Tasmania due to an almost total lack of demand? Will he use his influence with any other Minister who might be able to help and meet the EZ company to determine whether retrenchments, which could number between 200 and 300, can be avoided in an industry so essential to the livelihood of southern Tasmania? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. No doubt the Minister has seen that the recent figures which show the Australian production of items by which we judge business activitythings such as electric motors, bricks, television sets and cloth, among others- during January went into the sharpest decline of our present recession. In other words, we are still seeing a severe slump developing in the economy and can even see this slump accelerating. Is the Minister aware that such a serious drop in production indicates that we have not yet approached anywhere near the bottom of the present recession? Will the Minister agree that it indicates that in the foreseeable future unemployment will continue to increase from its present dreadfully high level? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. Towards the end of a reply to me this morning about a question concerning the present slump in our economy,  Senator James  McClelland intimated that the tone of my voice indicated that I hoped unemployment might continue to increase. I emphatically deny that. Nothing would please me more than to see the 300 000 people who are out of work in this country able to find employment of their choosing, particularly those already out of work and those facing unemployment in my State of Tasmania. As a senator for Tasmania where so many are out of work already, I have a responsibility to do what I can to put pressure on the Government to reverse the situation that presently exists in this country. That I will always do. I shall not let any innuendo or statement such as that made by the Minister stop me in that endeavour. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the Postmaster-General's Department any plans to introduce pushbutton telephones; if so, when will the telephones be introduced. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry by stating that no doubt the Minister will remember saying that the reduction of output of zinc at the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia Ltd in Hobart was due to a reduction of export demand and also a reduction in local use. Is the Minister aware that there have been predictions that steel production and production of such things as galvanised iron will fall in the next few months and that this will result in an even lower demand for zinc than the 60 per cent production we now see at Risdon? In his Department's discussions with the Electrolytic Zinc Company, did the company indicate that it may have to reduce its production another 20 per cent in the near future with consequent reduction of staff not only in Hobart but also on the west coast of Tasmania from which much of the ore comes? 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLANDDiscus.sions are still proceeding with the Electrolytic Zinc Company in an attempt to solve some of its problems. I should not like to prejudice these discussions by going into too much detail in the matter. I hope the outcome will be favourable. That is all I am prepared to say on that matter at the moment. As to the other arm of the honourable senator's question about a possible drop in the production of sheet steel, the Government is aware of such danger and is also taking measures to avert such a happening. 
-My question is addressed to either the Minister representing the Treasurer or the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. No doubt the Minister has seen the reports that government building investment now exceeds private building investment whereas private building investment normally would be something like three times the government figure. This is indicative of the fairly low or extremely low level of building activity that has been allowed to develop in this country. To assist the building industry and to give confidence to people who would like to build a home but are scared of rapidly increasing costs and high interest rates, can the Minister advise and give a firm commitment as to the Government's short term policy on interest rates for housing and whether, if people decide to build now, they will be able to afford their repayments if interest rates are allowed to rise during the next bout of inflation that has been predicted as being due about the end of this year? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. No doubt the Minister will recall that several weeks ago I asked about the employment situation at the Electrolytic Zinc Company (A/asia) Ltd at Risdon. I am aware that the Minister realises the importance of this industry to Tasmania. I ask: Will the Minister advise the present situation regarding employment at Risdon? Can the Minister yet advise the Senate of any specific plans the Government may have to assist this industry? Is it a fact that unless assistance is given eventually considerably more employees than originally thought will be laid off from Risdon in the coming months? 
-We are discussing the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I think I am right in saying that you have said that it is a radical change. We have just hear  Senator McLaren  say at the beginning of his peech that it is a most important piece of legislation. It seems that the Government is making another attempt to alter the electoral laws of this country, about which it has had a preoccupation since it was elected to government and came to power in December 1 972 and also since its quite narrow election victory in May of last year. Basically the party which has the majority of numbers in the House of Representatives is the party which forms a government, and I think that it would be quite wrong to oppose legislation for which that government has a mandate just for the sake of opposition. But I do not feel that the people of Australia want this Government or any government to be able to ensure its re-election almost automatically. I believe that this would happen if this Bill were not amended. I do not feel, because this Government won the previous election by such a narrow margin, that it has any right to force upon the people changes in the electoral system that will tend to enshrine it in office. I am suspicious of any government that tries to alter the electoral system. I am afraid that anybody would be hard put to convince me and the public of Australia that a government would alter the electoral system unless it was to its own benefit. I feel that quite a lot of these important moves are being undertaken by the Government for selfish motives. 
I was listening to what the honourable senator said but the honourable senator was not talking about federal laws. 
-I am not condemning anything. When I am dealing with interjections I would like to deal with them one at a time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  The honourable senator will not deal with interjections. He will address the chair. Interjections are disorderly. 
-Thank you very much for your protection,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  It is my opinion that the Government has no mandate to alter a lot of the things that it is trying to alter. If we could put a lot of these matters to the people by way of referendum I think we all know what the answer would be in this case. It would be the same as it was when the previous referendums were put before them. I think the people would solidly reject a lot of the major alterations that the Government is attempting to put through. I doubt whether this Bill will be the last attempt by this Government to enshrine itself in office. I think we will see the Government trying to make other gradual changes to keep a socialist government in power. I think it is our responsibility to prevent this kind of thing happening because the electoral system in Australia does not contain too many restrictions concerning who can or cannot stand for Parliament. Of course that is the way it should be.  Senator Wood  made quite a point about how we should not put restrictions on people to prevent them standing for Parliament. If people want to call their group by some fancy name, I think that is their right and privilege and I would not try to stop them doing so. In electoral matters we do not want or need undue government interference in the way that elections are held. Of course elections are the backbone of any democracy and the makeup of the next Parliament will depend upon the form in which we finally pass this Bill. 
One of the other matters that I detect in this Bill is an attempt to destroy the Senate. It seems to me that there is an obvious attempt to make the Senate a replica of the other House where decisions which are made in the secrecy of Caucus- I use the word 'secrecy' loosely- are then forced through by weight of numbers. Such matters as the alteration in the methods of voting for Senate candidates and the attempt to increase the deposit to $ 1 ,000 for Senate candidates will make it much more difficult for concerned citizens to stand for Parliament. Yet, to be able to stand for Parliament is a right of Australians and any restriction that is put upon them by way of silly-sized deposits will discourage some people from nominating who might otherwise have a go. That is one area of electoral change that I do not like. I was going to say 'electoral reform' because that is how the Government usually names such legislation. 

 Senator Withers earlier mentioned numerous other matters. The major matters, in my opinion, tend to restrict the liberties of electors. They are to be restricted supposedly in the interests of a speedy result. This country does not need a speedy election result. It needs a safe result in which the votes of all electors are considered. It needs a result in which the people, by their votes, say who they do not want to be elected as well as who they do want to be elected. Under the present system of voting they can quite easily do this. In my opinion speed is not essential, but the safety of our electoral system is. Too many alterations to the electoral system in this Bill do not really help the outcome of the elections. We have heard about reduced hours for polling booths. We have heard about the registration of political parties so that they cannot be challenged. We have heard how only some names will be recognised. I have mentioned the high deposit that will be required. I think  Senator Wood  mentioned the restriction of postal voting. Of course the major provision that the Government would like to see put through by this legislation is optional preferential voting. I do not think we require these things in Australia. I am convinced that the Government does not have a mandate to alter the laws as it is trying to do. I will support the Opposition's amendments. 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, by reminding him that recently the Treasurer has indicated that he does not object to high levels of Government spending while it helps the employment of one extra person. In view of the widespread concern about the size of the Government's deficit, coupled with the attitude of the Treasurer, is the Minister able to indicate to the Senate what level of unemployment this Government feels is acceptable in this country? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security able to state whether the Government has changed its mind about the rate at which it will abolish the means test for pensioners, so that it will not now honour the Prime Minister's promise to remove the means test during the life of the present Parliament? Will the Minister tell the Senate and the pensioners of Australia just when they can expect the means test to be abolished? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Government agree that much of the unemployment in the private sector of the economy is due to the Government's action in attempting to transfer resources too rapidly from the private sector to the Government sector? Does the Government accept that the inflation rate of more than 17'/i per cent will increase even further if deficit spending is continued by the Government at its present rate? Does the Government accept that further inflation will inevitably lead to further lack of confidence in the private sector and a further increase in unemployment later this year? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport give the Senate any information regarding complaints that his Department has received from the airline companies regarding the limited length and therefore the safety of the airstrip at Hobart? Will the Minister say whether there are yet any plans to lengthen the airstrip by extending it in a northerly direction or to build a new and longer strip in another direction? 
-The Senate is, of course, debating a Bill which seeks the approval of an agreement reached between the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government in relation to the restoration of the Tasman Bridge which, as we know, was effectively destroyed when two of its supporting piers and three of its spans were knocked down by the Lake Illawarra' on the night of Sunday, 5 January. When the 2 piers fell they took with them three of the spans of the bridge. The lack of communication between the eastern and western shores of the Derwent River is creating tremendous problems, which  Senator Everett  referred to in a speech he made about a month ago, to those people who have some of their family on one side of the river and some on the other side. The problems being experienced by some of the people in Hobart will not be solved easily. 
I want to talk about the doubt that the destruction of this bridge has created with respect to the safety of the bridge from 2 points of view. I will deal with those in a moment. Firstly I would like to look at the history of the matter. In 1958 a committee of the Tasmanian Parliament received suggestions concerning the construction of a bridge across the Derwent River. One of them was the one which was eventually decided upon, which was really for the construction of the elevated roadway that we know as the Tasman Bridge. Another suggestion that the committee looked at quite seriously concerned the construction of a span bridge somewhat similar in style to the Golden Gate Bridge but, of course, not nearly as large and as expensive as the Golden Gate Bridge. That type of bridge, of course, is known as a suspension bridge. In its wisdom the committee of the Tasmanian Parliament decided on the suspension bridge and so reported to the Tasmanian Parliament. 
But the Tasmanian Government, which was then under the leadership of the Honourable Eric Reece, decided not to accept the Committee's advice. It decided against the construction of a suspension bridge and opted for the construction of an elevated roadway- a bridge that may have cost a little less than it would have cost to build a suspension bridge but one that would effectively close off a large part of Hobart 's wonderful harbour and a bridge that is quite an attractive looking structure but one that is a total failure from an engineering point of view. Even during construction difficulty was experienced in finding the bottom of the silt for the construction of some of the piles on the western side. Some of those piles go down 264 feet. They do not reach bedrock; they are just held in the silt by friction. If ever that silt moves there are some doubts as to whether those piles will be safe. 
I have just been talking about the western side of the bridge. Today I intend to talk in particular about the eastern side of the bridge, which is the area that was knocked down by the ship. During the discussion in the Tasmanian Parliament about the bridge in 1958 it was pointed out that there was every likelihood that at some stage a bridge such as the Tasman Bridge would be struck by a ship and destroyed and that if that did happen the eastern shore would be cut off from the western shore for an extended period. That was a very accurate prediction. It came to fruition after what I would say has been a very limited life of the Tasman Bridge. Two things were obviously wrong with the decision taken by the Tasmanian Government. First of all, it chose the wrong kind of bridge. It chose, purely because of the price, an unsafe type of structure and one that was not recommended by the committee of inquiry. Furthermore it neglected to follow up the observations of one of the witnesses before the committee that a break in the Tasman Bridge caused by a collision with it by a ship could lead to the destruction that we now have. The Tasmanian Government took no action to upgrade the roads that connect with the eastern shore. So the Tasmanian Government was responsible for the construction of a bridge that I have seen termed a killer bridge. Having done that it took no action to fix the roads on the eastern shore, which should have been done. Surely that should have been done in case the predictions of the witness before the committee and I believe others in the Tasmanian Parliament were to eventuate. That, very briefly, gives us an idea of the past history. On Sunday, 5 January last, the Tasman Bridge came down. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  said that the restoration of the bridge is a very big and difficult task from an engineering point of view. That is quite an understatement. For those who do not realise the situation, a bridge made of stressed concrete was struck very solidly by a massive force. That force was large enough to bring some the bridge tumbling down 1 60 feet on to the ship below. The concrete that fell- a weight of some 7000 tons, I believe- either landed on the ship and broke it or was just sufficient to push the nose of the ship underwater so that it eventually sank and settled under the break in the bridge. Of course, it has to be remembered that at that time the ship, the 'Lake Illawarra', was fairly fully loaded. 
Either before or after the ship had settledprobably before- some number of cars fell a distance of about 160 feet from the bridge, which is somewhat akin to falling from the top of a 12- storey building such as the AMP building in Hobart. At entry into the water the speed of the cars would be approaching 100 miles an hour. I should say that had the original decision been to build a suspension bridge the people who were killed at that time, because of a Tasmanian Government decision, would now be alive. I put this question to the Senate: What would have happened had the collision taken place when the bridge was fully laden with bumper to bumper traffic at about 5 o'clock on a Friday afternoon? It might have been that not only would 3 spans have fallen but other spans could have been forced down because of the weight of the cars and the people in those cars. 
The question I ask is this: What do we do now?  Senator Rae  has spoken about the need for a second bridge up the river, and I concur completely in that, but I feel that there is a need for some manner of link to be provided urgently between the eastern and western shores at or near the present site- not at Bedlam Walls or Dowsing Point but somewhere near the present bridge. While I support the establishment of this Commission and commend the Government for its choice of members, I feel that the Commission should have a great deal more freedom than it has. One of the functions of the Commission is set out in clause 5 (b). It states: 
The Commission shall be empowered to exercise and may perform all or any of the functions of superintending, co-ordinating, directing, managing and executing the planning and performance of any work associated with- 
the restoration of the Bridge to a condition which will permit it to serve the purposes it served prior to the collapse of sections of the Bridge. 
I hope that answers to some of the questions that  Senator Rae  asked earlier will provide the Senate with information about the degree of restoration. The point I make is that I am not sure that we can really afford to rebuild the Tasman Bridge. First of all, when the Tasman Bridge fell it was being used to the limit of its traffic capacity. Hold-ups were frequent and it would not have been much longer in terms of the usual life of a bridge before something else was needed near the present site, and again I say not miles away near Bedlam Walls or Dowsing Point but at the present spot. 
Then we are faced with the question of how long it is going to take to rebuild the bridge. In the 'Mercury' recently I saw that  Sir Allan  Knight has estimated that it might take about 2% years. Sometimes when in an aircraft flying out of Melbourne or driving around in Melbourne I have noted that the Westgate Bridge is now roughly back to the situation it was in when it collapsed, and that collapse happened about 5 years ago. The bridge is being constructed on a part of the river bank where it is easy to get at and to work on, and yet it has taken some 5 years to get back to roughly the stage the construction had reached when the bridge collapsed. In Hobart, of course, we have the added complication of about 100 feet of water which the piles must penetrate before they reach the mud. Then there is some 90 feet from the mud to the rock base at that spot, and the ship that is lying on the bottom has to be dealt with. When a suitable piling structure is put in, a superstructure has to be built to carry the roadway. Honourable senators can see that that is a much more difficult job than rebuilding the Westgate Bridge, which has already taken 5 years. When  Sir Allan  Knight says that it is only going to take 2% years to rebuild the Tasman Bridge, I think he is being extremely optimistic. 
The main problem that concerns me is safety. It is all very well to say that the open part of the bridge should be replaced, and I have had many ingenious methods of doing that suggested to me. But I have also had advice from engineers that from a safety point of view a great deal more of the bridge should be replaced than is generally thought necessary. The  Chairman  of the Commission,  Sir Allan  Knight, recently said that there was 7000 tons of debris in the river which came from the bridge and that the location of the debris was extremely difficult. I mention that because no one can ascertain just how it was that this bridge failed, whether it twisted or fell straight down. Because of that, no one can tell what damage has been done to the unseen parts of the bridge. When concrete is impacted it tends to crack and if any of those cracks are under water then the water can penetrate to the reinforcing steel. So the bridge may be rebuilt but it may fail at a subsequent time at a spot where it is not realised that damage has occurred. As I said a moment ago, the death toll in such a case could be very much higher than the 12 people who were killed on the night of 5 January. The advice that I have had is that all of the bridge from the central span to the eastern shore should be replaced if we are at all interested in the safety of the bridge. When designing an engineering structure such as a dam or a bridge it is assumed it will last about 100 years. I do not think we can assume that some parts of the Tasman Bridge will last for that long, particularly those sections that are east of the mid-span. Of course, I have already said that if it does fail it falls a long way. 
The second safety aspect is that, due to its style, the bridge is inherently unsafe. It is inherently an obstruction to shipping. It has been hit once in 10 years and it is quite probable that it will be hit again in the years to come as shipping becomes more frequent and as ships get larger. We know that suitable single suspension spans have been built recently in certain areas of the world. I have the design of one that was built recently in Canada between Halifax and Dartmouth. The bridge cost about $Can36m when it was completed in 1973, and of that $Can36m some $Can14m was for the acquisition of property and the building of the approaching roadways. 
-The bridge is of a comparable length to the one that is needed in Hobart in an area that I am just going to suggest. I would be quite willing to let  Senator Everett  look at the folder that I have on it. I have photographs and reports submitted over the 3 years during which the bridge was designed and built. It is my contention that the Commission we are now considering should have the power to investigate whether the Tasman Bridge should be rebuilt and to recommend, if necessary, that a different type of bridge be built, probably between the Domain and Rosny Point, as was suggested in a 1958 report to the Tasmanian Parliament. That is a fairly short span when compared with the site of the present bridge. For the majority of people who live on the eastern shore it would make the trip a couple of miles shorter. I think that it would be a lot better to do that than to throw good money after bad. I do not think it is any good repairing a bridge if we are left with a structure that is of doubtful strength.  Senator Wright  said earlier that the safety of the bridge was one of the most important aspects that we should consider. We all have to take the long view on this, and I believe that it would be quicker to build a new suspension bridge than to repair the Tasman Bridge- again I say that the new bridge should be built between Rosny Point and the Domain- because a suspension bridge is fairly easy to design. One can almost walk into any engineering shop and ask for a design for a suspension bridge because there are so many of them around the world. I know that once upon a time one suspension bridge failed. Engineers know why it failed. It was a very slender bridge. It got caught in very high winds which we get in Tasmania, but suspension bridges can now be designed to overcome this. 
Another point is that obviously 2 bridges are needed, or at least more lanes are needed, almost at the point where the old Tasman Bridge is located. What I have been saying applies only to the repair of the Tasman Bridge. I feel that we need an extra bridge further up the river as well. One of the things that has amazed me since 5 January is the length of time it has taken to build a temporary bridge over the Derwent. I am sure that most people in Hobart are amazed about a couple of things. They are amazed that it has taken so long to erect a temporary bridge and they are also amazed at the attitude of certain people or of the Government that this bridge should only be a single-lane bridge for priority traffic. 
-The Tasmanian Government's attitude. I said that they were amazed at the people's attitude that the bridge should be only a one-lane bridge for priority traffic rather than of at least three or four lanes. Also I am not convinced that a lot of Tasmanians are happy about  Mr Barnard  's part in this. This has been dealt with somewhere else. I have heard some Tasmanians say: 'If this is all he can do for his home State of Tasmania, I do not know what would be the situation for the defence of Australia if we had a war'. However, we are not talking about defence at the moment. 
Thank you very much for whatever that means. I am just making a comment about a bridge in Hobart and I am trying to give the Government some indication of things that I have heard in Hobart, and this is one of them. The job at hand is to get for Hobart soon a bridge that is safe and suitable. I think the Government should widen the powers of this Commission so that it can investigate the whole of the bridge situation in the Hobart area. I do not want to deal with the costs involved in this disaster. 
-This is a combined one. It is an agreement between the Tasmanian Government and the Federal Government. 
I am saying that this Government should widen the powers of the Commission. It should suggest to the Tasmanian Government that this Commission should have wider powers. I cannot see that there would be any difficulty in getting some agreement between the Tasmanian Government and the Federal Government- both Labor governments- which will somehow result in getting for Hobart a bridge a bit quicker than might otherwise be the case and a safer bridge than we might otherwise get. I do not want to deal with the costs because I believe that someone else is going to deal with that in due course and it has been dealt with in another place. When we look at the cost of bridges it must be borne in mind that we have to take the long view. These bridges have to be built to last 100 years and therefore we have to look to paying off the bridges over that period, so the cost is not the important thing. Speed of building, efficiency and safety of the final design are more important than anything that needs to be done in terms of money. They are the only points that I want to make at this stage. I ask the Government to investigate the possibility of arranging with the Tasmanian Government to widen the powers of this Commission to enable it to be a bridge commission for the Derwent or something of that sort, because that is the way suitable bridges were built in the HalifaxDartmouth area. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to table the report from the Australian delegation to the Sixty-first Conference of the Inter-Parliamentary Union held at Tokyo last year. 
-I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that many people who receive an increase in State superannuation benefits, for example, are forced to surrender their pensioner medical service entitlement cards, they lose telephone rental concessions and in Tasmania they lose power and transport concessions. In fact some are worse off than they would have been if they had not received an increase in benefits. No doubt the Minister is aware also that the maximum allowable benefits before loss of fringe benefits are $57.50 a week and that this maximum has not been altered for many years. I ask: In this time of inflation is it not possible for the Government to adjust to a more reasonable figure the maximum allowable benefits before fringe benefits cease so that people will not be made worse off as a result of inaction on the part of this Government? I point out that an increase in the maximum allowable benefits would not involve additional revenue expenditure and therefore would not be inflationary. 
We are discussing the proposal to approve an electoral redistribution in the State of Tasmania. It is one more attempt by this Government to ensure that it stays in office for as long as it is possible for it to do so. I have mentioned before that at the last election the Labor Party just scraped home. Had a few hundred of the electors in certain electorates voted in a different way we would have had a Liberal Government. Ever since it came to power this Government has been attempting to change the voting system in such a way that it will be able to remain in power for as long as possible. 
We see an attempt by the Government, which is always saying that it has got a mandate to do certain things, to do something which it certainly does not have a mandate from the people of Australia to do. This is a dishonest attempt by the Government to force upon the people of Australia a government that they will not want, in my opinion, at the next election. I say to  Senator Hall  that if his Liberal Movement is prepared to support redistribution following the next Senate election he should make that very clear to the people of Australia so that the people in those electorates in which he has candidates know just what they are letting themselves in for if they do elect any more of the people of the calibre of  Senator Hall. 

 Senator Withers has pointed out that there is no need for a redistribution in Tasmania at this time and that the electorates are all well within the percentage quota which is the basis on which the Government has decided that there should be a redistribution. We know that no redistribution is being planned in Western Australia.  Senator Withers  has pointed out that there is very much a need for such a redistribution in that State to bring the electorates within the 10 per cent variation. But the Government has decided not to have a redistribution there- not on your life- because it knows very well that if it does it will lose at least one seat at the next election. 
If the honourable senator does not know I suggest that he ought to do a bit of analysis. I am telling the Senate- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Order! That sort of crossfire is unnecessary. 
It makes the debate more interesting though,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I alway enjoy a few interjections. 
-No, I will not. The seat about which the honourable senator asked is, in my opinion, Kalgoorlie. Even if there is no change in the electoral boundaries in Western Australia I think that the division of Kalgoorlie will become a Liberal Party seat after the next election. Anyway, the Government is just hanging on to government by the skin of its teeth and it is doing everything that it can to attempt to alter the situation so that it can stay in power for another term after this present one. 
I can well understand why the Government wants to alter a few of the electoral boundaries in Tasmania. It knows that it is in deep trouble in our most: southern State. Let me forecast now that even if this redistribution proposal does not go through the Labor Party will be lucky to have any Tasmanian representatives in the House of Representatives after the next election. My analysis of the situation in Tasmania is that the Government will lose its seats in this order: Bass, Wilmot, Braddon, Denison and Franklin. Let us look at each of those electorates in turn. In Bass there are more than 1000 people- I was going to say thousands but I do not like to exaggerate in the manner in which some of my colleagues do on the other side of the chamber- out of work. Those people are out of work because of the mad decision of the Labor Party to cut tariffs by 25 per cent across the board. I think that  Mr Barnard  could very well kiss his seat goodbye. In fact, I predict that he will be the first person to fall at the next election, if indeed he does stand. If he had any sense he would resign now. 
I hear an interjection from one of our New South Wales senators. He says that he is Tasmanian. He is at the top of the Senate ticket in Tasmania but he comes from New South Wales. I just cannot understand how stupid the Labor Party can be at times, but I am beginning to learn. Let me now turn to Braddon where we see that hundreds more people are out of work. 
-No, it was  Senator Grimes  who comes from New South Wales. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! An honourable senator cannot reflect on the place from which a person originates. 
I must clear it up,  Mr Acting Deputy  President; it is very important. I think that we should point out to the people of Tasmania and to the Senate that  Senator Grimes  is really a New South Welshman and he is only a Tasmanian in disguise. 
-Our friendly flapping feathers are at it over there again. He never ceases to flap. But I will get back to the point about Braddon where there are some hundreds of people out of work. The Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd is just hanging on. 
-That is right. It is only hanging on because of government subsidy. The Peko group has invested a lot of money on King Island. I believe that company lost money last year and it could well close down before the next election, or following it if the Labor Party is returned. The mining industry is in a lot of trouble along the west coast of Tasmania in the electorate of Braddon because the demands of the zinc company in Hobart are not as great as might be needed to keep that area of Tasmania in business during the next few years. 
I have been advised that in the electorate of Denison the zinc company may have to put off more than one-third of its work force before the next election. How on earth are the people in these areas in the electorate of Braddon going to support  Mr Davies  when they know that their jobs are likely to go if he is re-elected? How are they going to support the gentleman in the electorate of Denison if they know that the zinc company is going to go bust if this Government - 
-Just let me finish the sentence. I always like to finish the sentence before I answer interjections. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder!  We want to help the honourable senator with his speech but I think the implication of  Senator Wheeldon  's interjection relates to the relevance of the remarks. I know that  Senator Townley  is making passing reference to Tasmania. 
I am talking about each of the electorates. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Wait a moment,  Senator. What  I am suggesting is simply that you have made a passing reference but the fundamental question that we are debating is the justice or the injustice of electoral redistribution. I do not think that the economics of Tasmania are directly involved, so I am trying to avoid a point of order being taken on the relevance of your remarks. I ask you to proceed. 
If there were not so many interjections I would get through these points much more quickly, the work of Hansard would be a lot easier, and we might get to lunch at the right time, with this debate finished before lunch. Anyway, I was saying that I cannot see that the people in southern Tasmania are going to feel that any redistribution will be to their benefit. Surely whenever we are talking about things in Parliament we should consider the people we represent. I now refer briefly to the position in the electorate of Wilmot. Its boundaries are proposed to be changed, and therefore I feel I do have a right to mention it We see poor little  Mr Duthie  tearing around like the proverbial fly. 
-He has, yes, but he is trying to tell the people that this Government is not anti-farmer and that the Government is doing a good job. If the people in his electorate realised that he is using a photograph which must be about 15 years old they would kick him out just on that count alone. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder!  I have tried to apply the advantage rule here in relation to fleeting references to other subjects. I think that  Senator Townley  has said in this debate most of what he wanted to say. If he argues about the lack of community interest and imbalance in voting he will be in order but if he goes beyond those things he is straining the Standing Orders. I call  Senator Townley. 
I think we should be fair in this. The only bloke I have not mentioned is  Mr Sherry.  Nobody hears very much from him, but I do not expect to hear very much from him at the moment because he has just had a heart attack. Even so, I think the people of Franklin have woken up to the fact that this bloke does not do much for Tasmania. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I will convey that request because to reflect on a person's health is hitting below the belt. 
I would ask - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  No,  Senator, I  want an unequivocal withdrawal on that question. 
I ask you,  Mr Deputy President,  to get from Hansard the words that I used, because I did not say that I expected anything. The honourable senator has misrepresented the situation. Let me say again what I said. 
I said I make no imputation about  Mr Sherry  following his heart attack. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  All right, are you now giving an unqualified withdrawal, Senator? 
If you consider that necessary,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I unqualifiedly withdraw it. I brought in  Mr Sherry  because he, talking about redistribution, wrote to the redistribution people and said this, at page 7 of the copies of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners for Tasmania: 
I present herewith a submission to the Redistribution Commissioners for the electorate of Franklin, State of Tasmania. 
Essentially I submit that upon the evidence available there is no justification for any alteration to the present boundaries of the electorate of Franklin at this stage. 
Then he gave some figures that 1 do not think it is necessary for me to read to the Senate. At the bottom of the letter,  Mr Sherry  stated: 
I therefore submit that the Division of Franklin be not subject to redistribution. 
We have the situation there where  Mr Sherry  does not want a redistribution, and I can see why he wisely does not want one. He knew that the redistribution as proposed will take votes from his electoral district and give them to the division of Denison. In fact, it will change the situation in Denison from one where a swing of less than 3 per cent would have been needed by the Opposition to win the seat to one where there would be about a 5 per cent swing needed. The Division of Denison, on figures, was the most marginal seat in Tasmania, so senators can see that this redistribution, in Tasmania, which really is not necessary, is certainly benefitting the Labor Party in that area. Another thing about these redistributions that has not been mentioned is that we have to remember that they are to be used for the next State election. The people of Tasmania would go real crook, they would be rightly upset, if I did anything here that would help ensure that  Mr Neilson  stayed as Premier in Tasmania for any longer than possible. 
I think what  Senator Rae  has said is correct, but I think that this proposed redistribution, particularly of the division of Denison, is an attempt by the Government, not by the Commissioners, to fix Tasmania. I am convinced that the reason why the Government wants to pass these redistributions is that it wants to ensure that it has a longer term of office. In my opinion, this Government has been the worst that this country has ever had. It is attempting to change our whole way of life, and I am suspicious of anything that is introduced in the other chamber as a result of the work of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I consider that all such matters are designed to keep the Labor Party in power. There is no need yet to have a redistribution: It is not really due for another few years. I could have mentioned other Tasmanian members who are against this redistribution. It is going to disturb unnecessarily some people who live in particular electoral divisions and, when we realise that the Government has brought in a redistribution for Tasmania when one is not needed but has not brought in one for Western Australia when one is needed, we must be suspicious that the Government has some ulterior motive. Before I conclude my speech, I would like to reiterate clearly that I did not intend to imply that  Mr Sherry  should not be resting at the present time. Anyone who has a heart attack should rest. 
-The point is that I said before that  Mr Sherry  had done nothing for Tasmania, and I expect him to have a rest for about a month. It has been about a month since he suffered a heart attack, but I say to the Senate that, before his heart attack, he was not doing the things that he should have been doing for the State, and I meant to leave no impression that he should not have taken due care of himself since his heart attack. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What was the total number of ordinary letters handled by the Post Office during: 
December 1973; 
December 1974; 
January 1974; and 
January 1975. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it possible to site an additional runway at Hobart Airport with safe approaches and departure routes, but one that is at least 2000 feet longer than the present runway. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the length of the main runway at Canberra Airport. 
What is the length of the runway at Hobart Airport. 
Under normal circumstances would (a) a DC.9 aircraft and (b) a Boeing 727 aircraft be able to stop with reverse thrust only if the brakes failed without overshooting the end of the runway at Hobart Airport. 
Under normal conditions would (a) a DC.9 aircraft and (b) a Boeing 727 aircraft be able to stop with brakes, if the reverse thrust failed, without overshooting the runway at Hobart Airport. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I remind the Minister that, in reply to a question I asked a week or so ago, he said that the Government will honour its promise to remove the means test on pensions during the life of the present Parliament. I now ask him: What will be the situation for females between the ages of 60 and 65 years? Will the means test on pensions for them be removed or will they have to continue in employment until they are 65 years old before the means test is removed? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I point out that recently a meeting was held between certain union executives and the executive of Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd in Hobart concerning the freighting of goods from Claremont to the mainland. Is the Minister aware that unless Cad burys can be guaranteed a virtually continuous shipping service to and from Tasmania it is,'almost certain to leave Tasmania, so adding to Tasmania's already high unemployment rate? Is the Minister able to say whether the Government has requested the unions involved with shipping and freighting to and from Tasmania to give Tasmania special consideration when any strike is contemplated? 
-We are discussing the Tasmania Grant (Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd) Bill 1975 which is designed to grant an amount of money of 6-5- zero-zero-zero dollars - 
-No. I should like to add another zero, and before it's over Tasmania may well need that extra zero. 
-That is what I said. If the honourable senator had listened to the number of zeros I said he would know that. It might be too high a figure for him to understand. 
I said as many as were necessary. Four was the number. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Townley,  please address the Chair. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I find that every time I start speaking in this place, before I finish my first sentence a few members of the Government side get into me. It is something I enjoy and something I hope continues. As a Tasmanian senator I want to say a few things about the economic situation in Tasmama that has led to the need for this Bill to grant money to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. It was only about a year ago that we heard in election promises that inflation would be reduced and unemployment removed and we heard that only Whitlam could do it. Now we know what he could do. APPM needs this money because of the direct actions of the Whitlam Government. As I said in a speech the other day, even Blind Freddie could have foretold just what effect the ill-advised 25 per cent across the board tariff cut would have on a lot of the manufacturing industries in this country. The tariff cut has hit industry right across Australia, but nowhere has it hit it harder than it has in Tasmania 
If I mention the unemployment that has been caused in Launceston I suppose some people would say I was playing politics, so I will not delve into that. But unemployment is particularly well known to the people of that area. That decision to cut tariffs was one that  Mr Whitlam  must have approved, because he is the Prime Minister and that means he is responsible for the actions of those Ministers whom he appoints. So I say that Prime Minister Whitlam certainly has proved to be the only one who has caused unemployment in this country as we now know it; the only one who has ever been able to lift inflation to the level that it is at now; and the only one who could oversee the industrial unrest that affects my State to such a great extent. You have only - 
It is amazing that the Prime Minister has been able to do all these things, but I think they are a little contrary to what he said back in May might happen. On the matter of industrial unrest, I saw in the 'Examiner' of Tuesday, 10 June- for the benefit of those honourable senators who are present, that was just yesterday- that the recent metal workers' strike hurt most of Tasmanian industry. That is the kind of thing that has been happening increasingly over the last few years. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! We are discussing the Tasmania Grant (Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd) Bill 1975 and not industrial unrest in Tasmania. Would the honourable senator confine himself to the Bill. 
-With due respect,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  this Bill is designed to stop unemployment. I believe that one of the reasons for such a lot of the unemployment in this country has been some of the strikes. That was just something in passing. 
I think that would have some effect on unemployment. I believe this Bill is designed to keep people in work, and rightly so. 
-Difficulty in the shipping industry has been one of the things that has caused the company to need this money. As a result of the Prime Ministership of  Mr Whitlam  we certainly now have high interest rates, and they are one of the causes of this company being in the dire straits in which it is now.  Mr Whitlam  certainly has a record that historians will look at and talk about for a long time. I am not sure that in future he will be remembered well. 
It does worry me to see the effect that government policies are having on the people in Tasmania. Tasmania has just about the highest rate of unemployment per head of population of any State. The unemployment rate is high not only among those who previously had a job but also among young people who are becoming confused because this country used to offer them every incentive to work and get ahead, but it now offers them nothing but soul destroying unemployment benefits. Perhaps if they are lucky enough they will be able to while away some time in Regional Employment Development schemes. I am not against RED schemes, but they are no answer to those who want to work for themselves or in private industry. I can think of some people who are seeing not only a few weeks of their lives go by without a job or without a suitable job but months. These months could easily turn into years before they get the jobs they want. For them it is most soul destroying. Many of them will never recover from the lethargy that is being instilled in them because of this Government's policies. 
The Government promised to help the private sector. I am afraid that I do not believe that it means to keep that promise. At an Australian Labor Party conference at Launceston in February this year  Mr Whitiam  said: 
There is good reason to hope that our economic conditions will soon begin to improve. In saying this I don't want to raise undue hopes or generate complacency. We live in times of rapid and sometimes unpredictable change. But I am confident that our recent economic measures will shortly show their effects. 
We have not yet seen those improvements about which  Mr Whitlam  spoke in February. I do not believe we will see them while the Labor Party is in government. We must remember that  Mr Whitlam  was addressing the Australian Labor Party conference at Launceston. He said also: 
If we want to prepare the ground for further gains in future years, we cannot push the system too far too fast. If we overload our demands at present we run the risk of cancelling out our gains. We will certainly pose a threat to the Government 's survival whenever the next election comes. 
I feel that the things which the Government is doing are done simply because it is biding its time until perhaps one day it has control of the Senate or something like that, when it will push the democratic system to the edge and over the brink. If that happens Tasmania will be the first State to sink into the oblivion of total economic destruction, and I believe the Government wants economic disaster so it can impose upon us its kind of socialistic desires. 
The Government has given this grant to APPM in an effort to stop many hundreds of people being thrown out of work. I am told on good authority that unless the demand for paper picks up a fair deal and fairly quickly, even greater cuts will need to be made than those which have already been made and which have been detailed by  Senator Wright.  Even more machines will have to be closed down. I begin to wonder how long it will be before the Government uses up all the paper that it has bought. I am told that it holds 18 months supply of paper for telephone books. 
-They need a lot of yellow paper for telephone books. I do not know about green paper for money. That may be one answer the Government has thought of. 
I am certainly not opposed to it, but I think that it would be much better to generate economic conditions under which one does not have to buy 1 8 months in advance. How is the decision of 18 months reached? Why not go to 24 months or 5 years storage of paper for telephone books? The line has to be drawn somewhere. My point in pointing that out is that the crunch has to come sooner or later. One cannot just continue to make paper and store it. Even the Government cannot buy 2 years supply of paper and continue to store it for the printing of telephone books. 
At a time when inflation rates are falling in many other Western countries, we in Australia hear the Government make excuse after excuse for its failure to control inflation here. In an effort to avoid the blame, the Prime Minister has now taken to shifting Treasurers. But as I have already pointed out, the eventual blame must be accepted by him. He appoints the Ministers and if they do not do the job that he expects of them, then the final blame is on his shoulders. At the back of the trouble of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd is inflation. We know that our real cure for inflation in this country is for the Government to reduce its spending. I suppose that every time we say that, people say that we want to cut out welfare payments. In these things, I find the people of Australia are more intelligent than the Government gives them credit for. They know that it is reasonable for the Government to concern itself with the well-being of people and that it is its responsibility to do so. Of course it is. But it is quite a different matter to propose, as this Government does, that the Government should look after all our welfare requirements. In my opinion, this is a stupid and a dangerous view. It is one that is held by many members of the Government and I think that really they should know better. Then again, there are some members of the Government who see no danger in inflation provided that wages go up at the same rate or faster than prices. But we can list fairly simply three of the economic harms that come from inflation. 
Firstly, let us look at the farmers and the miners and all those who want to sell their goods on the open market overseas. Export prices are virtually certain not to rise at anything like the rate of internal inflation in this country at the present time, so gradually we will be priced out of world markets, even if we have not already been. Yet exports are essential to the future of this country, not only in the long term but also in the short term. Secondly, of course, when we look at inflation and the effect which it has on those people on fixed incomes, we can see the damage that it does. 
Then there is a third group, not the old people but the young people, those who have not yet been able to buy their own homes. They find themselves faced with trying to accumulate a larger and larger deposit that is required nowadays to buy a house. If they do save and put their money in a bank or a building society loan or something like that, then the money value is reduced by some 20 per cent to 25 per cent each year. Inflation is a part of Government policy; it is a mean and despicable thing. Inflation is one of the reasons that APPM has had to request this grant from the Government. 
I suppose we could say the Government started the trouble by allowing, or even encouraging, bigger and supposedly better wages. It used the Public Service as a pace-setter. This of course snow-balled and the private sector was forced to follow suit, even if it meant, as recognised by the ex-Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, that eventually there would be fewer jobs for even the unionists of the country. That, coupled with the Government's tariff policies that I have mentioned, has led to the trouble that exists in Burnie. As I have said, we have yet to see the worst of the trouble that could happen there unless the Government changes its economic policies and the economic course of this country. I am not going to detail at the moment the other troubles that we have in Tasmania due to this Government's policies- the State of the farming industry, the failing electrolytic zinc industry in Hobart and the likelihood - 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Which Ministers have received free overseas airline tickets as gifts during the past two years. 
2 ) Which overseas airlines gave the free tickets. 
Will the Prime Minister also list those free tickets given to members of Ministers ' families. 
I also direct a question to the Minister for Police and Customs. I preface the question by reminding the Minister that it is quite clear that the Government's decision to make the 25 per cent across the board tariff reduction was the main reason for unemployment in the textile industry throughout Australia. Has the Minister seen Press reports in the 'Australian Financial Review' today headlined Chinese won 't play ball ' relating to the fact that talks in Peking between Australian and Chinese officials regarding voluntary restraints on 
Chinese textile exports to this country have broken down and that the Australian team left Peking without any agreement being reached? In view of the fact that we export to China considerably more in value that we import, will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will insist that China obeys the voluntary restraints for which Australia asks or else Australia will establish a protective barrier against cheap imports from China or any other country that has been flooding Australia with cheap clothing to the detriment of the textile industry? 
I present the following petition from 45 citizens of Australia: 
To the  President,  and the Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia, respectfully sheweth: 
That the progressive taxation scale is seriously reducing the ability of wage earners to keep up with ever increasing costs, and by forcing them to apply for large gross salary increases in order that their nett take home pay will meet these costs, is a major cause of inflation. 
With these considerations in mind, we urge that the Australian Government adopt, at the earliest possible date, the recommendations of the Mathews Committee Report on taxation indexation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That present and proposed development of limestone mining at Precipitous Bluff, tin mining at Cox's Bight, woodchipping in the remaining native forests and damming of South West rivers to produce power, will significantly affect the wilderness quality of South West Tasmania necessitating extensive road systems and damaging irreparably one of the last great wilderness areas of the world. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will protect this national heritage by refusing Australian Government financial assistance to any project which will further alienate this wilderness and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister has seen reports that two of Tasmania 's most important industries and two of the biggest employers in that State namely, the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd, are again looking at large scale retrenchments. Would the Minister outline to the Senate what action is being taken by the Government to assist these industries and to protect their workers from retrenchment? Would the Minister outline also any tariff changes that may be contemplated to protect APPM from import competition? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
How many pilots in general aviation are now out of work. 
Will the Minister for Social Security confirm that to get back documents from. Medibank, namely things like doctors* receipts, a person must send a stamped addressed envelope to Medibank within a certain time after receiving a payment from Medibank? Is it not the usual practice for the Government to pay postage, and might not this particular action in making the person involved pay the postage both ways set a precedent which could easily extend to other sections of his Department and even to departments other than the Department of Social Security? 
-I present the following petition from 42 citizens of Australia: 
To the  President,  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia, respectfully sheweth: 
That the progressive taxation scale is seriously reducing the ability of wage earners to keep up with ever increasing costs, and by forcing them to apply for large gross salary increases in order that their nett take home pay will meet these costs, is a major cause of inflation. 
With these considerations in mind, we urge that the Australian Government adopt, at the earliest possible date, the recommendations of the Mathews Committee Report on taxation indexation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Radio Station 2JJ 
I remind the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry that last week I asked him a question concerning retrenchments at Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd and at Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Limited. I asked whether the Minister would outline to the Senate what action the Government was taking to assist those industries and so protect the workers from retrenchment. Is the Minister yet able to indicate the position in relation to this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. No doubt the Minister is aware that Ajas-Bass Air Navigation Services of Moorabbin was told to stop all passenger and air freight services to King Island by sunset last night. I ask: Does the Government intend to amend the regulation gazetted in 1948 that stops the small company flying on the route from Moorabbin to King Island because it is a scheduled airline route? If not, will the Government assure the people of King Island that the service to the island will be kept at a satisfactory level? 
Today I wish to deal with several topics, all of which are important to my home State of Tasmania. I think all of them will indicate where the people of Tasmania need help, either because of the neglect of one aspect or another of the economy or because of the effect of particular aspects of this Government's philosophy. I hope that the Government notes what is said and attempts to correct the situation in Tasmania. Perhaps at the outset I should point out that a great many Tasmanians feel that this Government is out of touch with the needs of the Tasmanian community. Many of those who now feel that Tasmania has been let down could have been called, once upon a dme, genuine Australian Labor Party supporters. They are the people who in 1972 felt that the election of a Labor government would be the answer to their hopes and their dreams. They are the people who felt that electing Whitlam would set the country in a better direction. They are the people who genuinely felt that after 23 years it was time for a change. I suppose that many of them thought that Labor could not do much damage in 3 years, anyway. These people came from all walks of life. Now, almost 3 years later, the people of Australia and Tasmania can see the damage that this Labor Government has been able to do to the country. 
Students now wonder what is the value of higher education if they cannot get a job when they leave school or university. Pensioners wonder what is the value of bigger pensions when the costs of rent and other living costs are effectively making pensioners worse off all the time. Those in the middle age group wonder what kind of country this Government will leave for their children. This country urgently needs a change of direction, and unfortunately the Budget does not give the changes that are so urgently needed. Time will show that the Budget does not control inflation. I think time will show that this Budget will actually add to unemployment. Time will show that the taxation reforms are really a hoax. I do not believe in detailing a lot of figures, but I have a chart which shows the way in which taxation has increased during the last 6 years. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted for the document to be incorporated? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="065232197509032_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

In 1972 the net payasyouearn tax amounted to $3,200m or thereabouts, and this year it is expected to be nearly $8,700m. That is an increase of some 2¾ times since Labor came into office. In the same period the amount of excise duty and sales tax, both of which hit very solidly at the traditional supporters of the Labor Party, has almost doubled. In the 3 years of Labor Budgets total tax has increased by more than 2 times. Of course, a great part of this tax increase has occurred in the recent Budget. Pay-as-you-earn taxation under the reformed system will increase by some $2,600m, which is a huge increase. In fact, the increase is bigger than the total net tax collection in 1970-71. This is being done by a government that says it is trying to restore confidence in the economy. How can people have confidence in their economic future when this Budget itself assumes an inflation rate of some 20 per cent? 
Not only the things in the Budget will have an effect on inflation. Of course, we must remember the increases in telephone and postal charges and things like that. They are just another form of taxation. They will have a profound effect on inflation. If one looks at the Government's estimates one sees an increase of some $40m in those charges that has not been accounted for in the Budget. Those who once thought that this Government might lead them to Utopia I think have had grave doubts about it, even before this Budget was introduced, and their Utopian dreams will be shattered when they taste the reality of the effects of this Budget. We Tasmanians, it seems, have been beset in every possible way by this Government. Firstly, there was the 25 per cent reduction in tariffs early in the life of the Government, and even Blind Freddy could tell what effect that reduction in tariffs would have on many Tasmanian industries. We certainly saw the effect in Launceston, in places like woollen mills. Recently we saw, too, the most savage increases in the Australian National Line freight rates that anyone can remember when when  Mr There  - Are - More - Votes - In - Newcastle - Than - Tasmania - Jones approved those ANL freight rate increases. That was most probably the death knell for many Tasmanian companies. It will add a tremendous burden to the cost of shipping things to and from Tasmania. It is getting to the stage where one has to ask the question: What company in its right mind would set up in Tasmania now? Some companies will leave Tasmania and some will close down, adding even more to our very high level of unemployment at present. 
But of course the ANL freight rate increase was not the end of the increases in freight rates. Air fare and air freight costs also were increased a few days after the ANL freight rate increase took effect, and Tasmania once again was savagely penalised. The economy air fare between Hobart and Melbourne has increased from $25.50 in 1973 to just over $38 now-a rise of almost 50 per cent. In the same period the economy air fare between Launceston and Melbourne has risen from $19.50 to nearly $31- an increase of some 58 per cent. In the future Tasmania will have to rely very much on its tourist industry. It will need the tourist industry even more in the future because I believe that a lot of manufacturing industries will collapse. So what does the Government do in this Budget for the tourist industry? This year we see the provision of some $9m- or $8.9m if one wants to be accurate- to assist the Australian tourist industry. But that $9m will be offset by the other measures that this Government is taking which will influence the already ailing tourist industry. 
Tasmanians need air transport to get to the mainland. It is impossible to rely upon any other means of transport. So any increase in air fares has a disastrous effect on those wanting to visit the mainland or to travel to Tasmania. What effect will the Budget have? Obviously the fuel tax will lead to higher air fares. Obviously, too, the increase in our already very high air navigation charges will add to the cost of air fares not only between Melbourne and Tasmania but also all over Australia. I think, too, that the increases in post and telegraph charges will result in a sizeable increase in air fares. I believe that  Mr Jones  was well aware that these increased charges, which amount to some $20m between TransAustralia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia alone, will be passed on. It is estimated that these increased charges will result in a further 15 per cent to 20 per cent increase in air fares. So one does not need to be Einstein to see that Labor's transport policies are crucifying Tasmania. 
This Government is just not sympathetic to Tasmania and it will not pay any heed to our total dependence on sea and air transport. If one looks at the crazy philosophy of increasing air navigation charges at a time when there is very little real growth in the airline industry one can see that it will lead to serious financial difficulties not only for the airlines that serve Tasmania but for Qantas Airways Ltd as well. I would not be surprised to see some retrenchments in the airline industry fairly soon, and this is at a time when already the general aviation industry is at a disastrous level. Now it appears almost as if the airlines will be driven to the wall fairly soon by  Mr Jones  merely because of his preference for trains. 
I think that the Government needs to adopt a transport policy which recognises that even if we spend some money on airports that we do not get back directly, if people travel with the airlines the businesses associated with the airlines and the tourist industry will benefit. What the Government loses in one way it will get back in another way because people who travel by air transport from one place to another stay at hotels and hire cars, and this creates employment in the tourist industry, and the Government gets more than its share of the revenue by way of taxation. So internally I think that the country would benefit from low airport and landing charges. Internationally we would benefit a great deal by bringing to this country more people who would spend their money and leave it here when they go home. Our landing charges for international airlines, including Qantas, are already the highest in the world. I think that they should be reduced, not increased further. But I do not think that we will see that kind of common sense until there is a change of government. Until then those Tasmanians who ship goods or themselves to the mainland will have to continue to pay through the nose. 
I should like to turn now to housing. One of the obvious things about housing in Australia during the last year has been the tremendous increase in costs and the consequent reduction in the number of houses being built in Australia today. In the housing industry it is my belief that inflation is running ahead of the average inflation rate, and high interest rates forced upon Australia by this Government's policies have made it almost impossible for many people to be able to handle repayments on housing loans. It is my opinion that the Government has purposely connived at the collapse of the housing industry. As I have said before, houses are not only places for rest and renewal; they are needed by young married people as places where they can mould their own lives and where they can develop their families and themselves as individuals without pressure from their in-laws. For a long time past it has been an Australian tradition, and the hope of young people, to be able fairly early in one's life to own one's own home. Lately those hopes have been shattered. Many of our young people have been made to realise that they never will be able to own their own homes whilst the present economic conditions persist. I believe that the present conditions will persist until there is a change of government. 
I suppose some young people have not yet realised just how difficult it is to get together the money that is needed to buy a home. Those who are thinking of getting married in the near future or of wanting to buy a house must realise that the housing shortage that exists at present, with only a few more than half the required number of houses being built, is going to last for a long time. I believe that this Government just does not want people to own their own houses because it is against private ownership of any kind. I think it would like to see all houses and land owned by the state. That would force all of us to become tenants of the state. No doubt some member of the Australian Labor Party will point out that the amount allocated in the Budget for housing is very good, or say something like that, but what he would be pointing to is the money provided for government housing. The young people of this country do not want government housing. They want inflation to be controlled and the economic conditions to be controlled so that they can own their own private homes. I believe that hardly any families want to be state tenants all their lives. 
I believe that the Government has deliberately let the housing industry run down. That, of course, has had an effect on quite a number of associated industries. For example, the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia Ltd in Hobart has been affected by the run-down in the housing industry because zinc is used in plating tin and a lot of the other metal parts that go into making up the components of a house. The Government has encouraged the imposition of the highest interest rates in our history, which is entirely contrary to its stated policy. I think that it ought to try to get back to its stated policy. Until we see a reduction in the interest rates in this country we will see record rates of increase in the prices of houses, we will see the shortages continue and we will see increases in the rates that are paid to councils because councils have to borrow money and pay interest on their borrowings. 
I reiterate that I believe that the housing shortage is not a temporary situation. Those people who are looking for a house now or who anticipate that they will want a house in the future must realise that the Labor Government has brought this one time stable industry to its knees and that the present Budget does not improve the situation. In fact, a lot of those people who are wanting to buy a house are newly married couples who are both working and who have no dependants. This Budget has actually increased the amount of tax that a lot of those people without dependants will have to pay. So they are going to have even more difficulty in saving enough to bridge the gap and get a deposit. So this Budget offers no hope to those who do not yet own their own homes. 
I would go as far as to say that not many of the people who want to buy their own homes are ever going to be game enough to vote again for this Government. Because of the Government's failure in the housing area many young people are being frustrated. They are being made to feel helpless and hopeless. As I have said, I would be surprised if even one of the would-be home owners in this country were to vote for the Labor Party at the next election. Their chances of owning a home are almost zero whilst the Labor Party remains in office. The would-be home owners should not let anyone try to kid them that the Government could not have kept down interest rates a little if it had wanted to do so. I think that the young people who voted for the Labor Party in 1 972 have been gypped a bit by the Government. They have been short-changed in this area as well as in others. I anticipate that the Liberal and National Country Parties will make housing for people of all ages an absolute priority when they come back into government. 
There is one other area in which our young people have been very badly affected by the Government's policies; that is in the field of employment. About one-third of those who are unemployed are between the ages of 15 and 25 years. To many of the people who are attempting to enter the work force their first contact with the working community is one that sees their rejection. This is not good for the individual, it is not good for his future, it is not good for his confidence or ambitions and it is certainly not good for the country. 
The unemployment situation in Tasmania is not confined to the young. The Government has brought unemployment within the reach of just about everyone in Tasmania. The unemployment situation is not improving; in fact, it is getting considerably worse. I would like to detail a few of the areas throughout my State in which Tasmanians are in trouble. Let us go firstly to Launceston. We all know about the situation in Launceston because we heard such a lot about it during the Bass by-election. That area was badly affected by the Labor Government's tariff policies. Upwards of 2000 people are presently out of work in that area, taking into account those engaged under the Regional Employment Development scheme. The situation in the electorate of Bass is a very serious one. That matter was dealt with very well by Kevin Newman in his excellent maiden speech in the House of Representatives yesterday. The farming industry of Tasmania is just about destitute. Incomes are down considerably on what they were last year. Expenses are up and the Government's contribution is down. I think that farming, like housing, is an area that the Government and the unions would like to take over completely. They feel that the State should own all the farms. So I do not think that we will see much Government help being provided to this most important aspect of our economy in Tasmania. The Government's attitude towards farming has also resulted in the loss of jobs by those in Hobart who used to manufacture superphosphate. I feel that  Senator Wriedt  's own State has been let down badly by the Government of which he is a member. I have already said that rural aid has been slashed by the Government. 
Moving to the north-west of Tasmania we see not only despondent farmers but also the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd continuing to put off staff. The increase in shipping costs will cost APPM more than $lm in the coming year. APPM will have Sim less to pay in wages in the Burnie area. Therefore there must be more unemployment in the Burnie area because of the increase by the Australian National Line in shipping charges. That, coupled with the decrease in the demand for paper that will come about because of the increase in postal rates- fewer people will write letters, fewer people will send advertising material and fewer people will need to use envelopes- will make the future of APPM very shaky indeed. 
Last year the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, which is in the Braddon electorate, lost some $8m just on operating a mine. I believe that the trend will continue this year and that the stage must eventually come about when that company must decide whether it can afford to lose money continually. If continual demands by unions for increased wages or something else are allowed to affect that industry, amongst others in Tasmania, I can foresee the time when that company, which is so vital to the west coast of Tasmania, will be closed down or at least put on maintenance. If wages are allowed to inflate, the mine could well be priced out of world markets and all Tasmanians would lose if it had to close. The same situation applies with respect to the Electrolytic Zinc Co. in Hobart. If wages go up there we could be in even more trouble than we are in at present. Much of the unemployment at the zinc works is due to Government policies. Do not make any errors about that. I admit that there has been a slight fall-off in overseas demand for zinc. If we get housing going again and if we reintroduce the superphosphate bountywhich I have already mentioned- we will see more people employed immediately in the Hobart area. Yet just a few days ago we heard the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  going crook in a style I do not usually associate with him about  Mr Fraser  's plan to reintroduce the superphosphate subsidy. Perhaps he does not realise that if the subsidy comes back in, many people in Tasmania will be able to return to work. I would suspect also that the yield from a lot of the farming businesses around the country will eventually increase again and the Government will get its money back in that way. 
Other companies are in trouble in Hobart. In today's  Mercury  I saw that H. Jones and Co. Pty Ltd put some people off yesterday. Another company that I feel is in a lot of trouble and could leave Tasmania- due mainly to the shipping freights- is a very big employer in southern Tasmania. I refer to Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd. I suppose that two-thirds of its packing materials, dried fruits and raw materials are imported into Tasmania. It will have to lift prices on a wide range of its products if it is going to remain viable. These goods have already been the subject of many increases during the past few years. We know that some of Cadbury 's business has already been transferred to the mainland. I expect that he Australian National Line freight rate increases will speed up this policy. Perhaps within a fairly short time we will see the company go to the mainland. I plead with the Government to re-examine the freight situation to and from Tasmania before we lose some of the very big employers, and lose them forever. 
I should like to go over some of the points I have raised. In the electorate of Bass we have a lot of trouble with the woollen mills. A lot of them are closing down and a lot are in dire straits. In Wilmot the farming industry is about ruined. In Denison problems are associated with the zinc company. Some of the people who work at Cadbury's, of course, live in Denison. Franklin has the highest unemployment rate in Tasmania. In Braddon there are farms, Australian Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd is just about mucked up, and the Mount Lyell company could close. 
Unemployment in Tasmania has reached alarming levels. Immediate government help is needed to turn the tide in that State. For instance, unemployment in July reached more than 6000 and that included nearly 500 people who have been out of work since they left school last year. That figure of more than 6000 does not include the people who went back to school, or the 2100 people who were employed by the Regional Employment and Development scheme during that month. If all those figures were added together we would have more than 8300 people out of work in Tasmania during July which is more than twice the number of the previous year. Honourable senators can see that we already have a disastrous unemployment level which is causing a great number of people to leave the State. Bob Hawke has predicted, amongst other things, that unemployment will continue to rise. If it does, we will have the worst unemployment rate since the depression. I feel that Tasmania will be heading the unemployment percentages. 
I believe that the Labor experiment has failed. I think it has failed because the Labor Party, purposely in my opinion, allowed public spending at a reckless rate knowing very well that inflation would follow and realising that inflation would suit the Government's ends because it would allow galloping socialisation via taxation. This was very well put by  Sir Arthur  Rymill in South Australia in 1974. Rather than read his speech, I commend it to honourable senators to read. Unless we see a change of direction with emphasis on giving incentive to the individual in the private sector, unless we see a limit on the top tax rate in this country to 50 per cent- which I have advocated for many years to encourage those with enterprise to create businesses and jobsand unless we encourage small companies, we are a country that is heading for disaster. We will become a brotherhood of misery. A lot of the trouble will be the result of 2 things: First of all is government spending. Secondly, the Government has done very little to control the union demands that we have seen during the last couple of years. 
During the last couple of years we have seen some unions that occupy key positions in our community using their power to raise their incomes, regardless of the needs of the rest of the Australian people. The unions have put the squeeze on the whole community, irrespective of what the community can afford. Some sectors of the population have had to pay for those demands of the unions. It almost seems as though the unions are in control of this country or, at least, in control of the economy. There are many large sectors of the community that cannot be organised. They are the ones which suffer the effects of rapid inflation which is partly attributable, as I have said, to the huge demands by the unions during the past years. Those people who are very poor, very young, sick or helpless or physically or mentally handicapped, are the prime casualties of rapid inflation. They cannot organise themselves like the metal workers or miners that we saw outside this Parliament earlier today. They are powerless. Many of them dread opening the newspaper because they know that the wage rises that they see reported will lead inevitably to rises in the cost of essentialsfood, electricity and transport. 
The poor have to pay for the excess union demands. It seems that almost literally they have directly to contribute to the higher pay packages of the unionists. Just as the under-privileged suffer from wage inflation, so they suffer from the strikes. The economy has felt the effect of a great deal of bullying strikes during the period of this Labor reign. In my State of Tasmania we have seen a strike by the metal workers which has lasted some 10 weeks. This has been a crazy strike. It is an example of how one section of the community is able figuratively to bash the rest of the public in the face. It is an example also of the way this country is following Britain on the way to economic ruin. It is time that the Government showed the way it wants the unions to act, or is this the way? Does it want the country ruined? 
I believe that the only time we will see a start on the long haul back to full employment in Australia and control of inflation is when there is a change of government. From my point of view Tasmania can no longer afford the Labor experiment. All over the State the question I am asked time and time again is: 'When are you going to kick them out?'. The people of Tasmania want a chance, as soon as possible, to tell the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  what they think of what he and his Government have done to this country. I predict at the next election a rejection of  Mr Whitlam  and his Party of a magnitude never before seen in this country. Following that election, it is my belief that action will be taken to revive production and investment, to control government spending and to reduce personal taxation in order to get Australia on the road again. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Withers. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. It concerns the price of petrol. No doubt the Minister is well aware that the Prices Justification Tribunal yesterday granted a 6c a gallon increase in the price of petrol to compensate the oil companies for the increased levy imposed by the Budget and that this tax will add to the cost of a lot of goods in Australia, therefore adding to inflation. I ask: Does this price include any profit for the oil companies? So that people deciding to buy a car can choose what size and style of car to buy, what does the Minister anticipate will be the price of petrol in, say, one year from now and 2 years from now? 
I want to bring up a matter which is causing a lot of distress to the people of Tasmania generally and particularly the people in southern Tasmania. I refer to the delay in getting on with the rebuilding of the Hobart bridge. The Hobart bridge was demolished some 40 weeks ago and during ten of those weeks we have seen a strike by the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. This to me is a disgrace of the highest order. We have seen the life style of thousands of people being interrupted for almost an extra 3 months due to the action of this one union. I think it is fair to say that the action of this union is not in the public interest. It is causing increased prices in all of Tasmania. I want to quote from an article written by Wayne Crawford which appeared in yesterday's  Hobart Mercury.  It is headed 'Bridge blow to prices'. It states in part: 
Retail stores- mainly because of delivery problems- had to increase their income by about $5,000 a week, or $750,000 in 3 years. 
The oil industry was losing income at a rate which would total more than $1,300,000 in 3 years. 
Airlines were having to bear an additional cost, which would come to about $750,000 by the end of 1977. 
Over 3 years, the building industry's extra costs because of the disaster would be about $7m. (One timber yard alone is said to have estimated it will cost it $80,000 extra this year in transport to the Eastern Shore.) 
Property values have, at best, remained static since January 5 (the night of the disaster), contrasting with a relative boom on the western shore, where values have increased by 33 per cent. 
Less than half the number of new dwellings approved during the corresponding period of last year have been approved since January 5 this year, and the cost of building on the Eastern Shore has risen by 20 per cent, over and above inflation. 
Eastern Shore hotels are doing a much bigger night trade, but this does not offset the average 50 per cent reduction in accommodation demand. 
Western shore restaurants have felt the pinch, with a drop-off in trade. 
Service stations which relied on passing bridge traffic have been hard hit- but others have fared well because of the extra mileage travelled by Eastern Shore motorists. 
The point I wish to make it that at the moment a special conference is being held with Conciliation Commissioner Judith Cohen. I believe it is going on at the moment. It is in its second day. If it happens to fail to get agreement I ask  Senator James  McClelland, who has been dealing with the matter, to take further action immediately to help settle the strike. 
That is an interesting point. I do not know why that happened. Perhaps it is a point which  Senator Wright  can take up when I finish speaking. In Hobart the rebuilding of the bridge is approaching a critical stage. There are foundaries in Launceston and Hobart which may close, perhaps for ever, if the strike is not settled rapidly. That will put another 100 people out of work either permanently or at least temporarily. The company which primarily is looking after the rebuilding job may have to disband its specialised staff, and I am told that once the staff is disbanded some 6 to 10 weeks could elapse before they could be got together again. It seems to me that the repair of the bridge should be regarded as a special project. I feel it should receive special union consideration instead of being specially used by the unions to increase the size of the members' pay packet. I ask the Minister to take whatever action he can to get this matter fixed. I appreciate the Minister's action in this matter. I do not want to stir up the situation unduly but this strike must be settled. 
I ask the Minister to keep the situation under close attention whether or not the Parliament is sitting. The economic situation in Tasmania is bad enough. It is made worse by the strike, and certainly is made worse because the strike is 10 weeks old. The damage to the bridge and the inconvenience to the people of Hobart is well known to those who live in that area. The State Government does not seem to be able to handle the situation too well, and it can use all the help it can get from  Senator James  McClelland and people like Bob Hawke. I ask that the Minister continue with the aim of settling the strike because he must realise that even the one-lane temporary bridge has not yet been finished. That should have been built within a couple of months of the bridge falling down. We do not have even a temporary crossing of one lane over the Derwent River yet. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I preface my question by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that the Australian Council of Social Services and the 8 State and Territory councils of social services, which have a total membership of over 2000 non-government health and welfare organisations and whose purpose is to carry out and promote programs to eliminate poverty and promote the well being of disadvantaged groups in our society, are at present in financial difficulties. Will the Minister advise whether the funding of ACOSS and the State organisations is under review? If so, is he able to indicate when the review of the funding will be finalised? ls the Minister aware that the Tasmanian Council of Social Services will have to close its activities in November or December if adequate funding is not forthcoming? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister at one stage decline to appear on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television program  Monday Conference,  which was filmed in Hobart on 9 May 1975; if so, for what reason. 
Did the Minister initially accept an invitation to discuss the nationalisation of the Australian insurance industry on the program, but decline to do so when asked to discuss the issue on camera with an Opposition senator; if so, for what reasons. 
Did the Minister finally appear on the program only upon the condition that he would appear as the sole guest. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What type of information relating to individual doctors is being stored in Medibank computers. 
Will a doctor be able to examine the stored information to determine ils accuracy. 
Which Government departments will have access to the information. 
Will any individuals have access to information relating to a doctor. 
How long will information relating to a doctor be stored. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that many general aviation operators involved in the spreading of superphosphate are likely to cease operations. If so, will there be any surviving aviation industry to spread fertilizers when farmers again start buying superphosphate? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the area of general aviation involved with the spreading of superphosphate facing almost total collapse due to: 
the lack of superphosphate following the Government's removal of the bounty, and 
the very high air navigation charges, and hangar rentals which have recently been increased? 
I preface my question which is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration by saying that the Minister has said on several occasions that unemployment in this country could reach 400 000 in the near future. I ask: As Tasmania is already badly affected by unemployment, is the Minister able to give some indication of the unemployment expected in Tasmania early in the new year? If the level expected is higher than the national average, does the Minister have any special plans to alleviate the situation in Tasmania? 
-We are discussing legislation which proposes to redistribute electorates in 5 States. Tasmania is one of the States under consideration. A motion for the approval of the proposed redistributions in that State was passed by the House of Representatives on 21 May this year and was negated the following day by the Senate. A Bill identical to the one we are now discussing with regard to Tasmania was introduced and passed by the House of Representatives on 29 May and was refused a second reading by this chamber on 10 June. The Bill has now been brought in for a second time.  Mr Daly  in his second reading speech when introducing the Bill in the other House said: 
The Government believes that the effecting of these redistributions has become a matter of urgent necessity in order to provide equality of representation for every elector. 
He went on to say: 
The Government is not prepared to wait until 1977 or 1 978 to effect a redistribution. 
I believe that we are seeing yet another attempt by the Government to ensure that it remains in office for as long as it possibly can. This Government seems to have had a preoccupation since it came to power with trying to remain in office. One of the comments that I hear as I go around Tasmania is that people are sick and - 
It is an extraordinary aim for this Government to have. No matter what it does I doubt whether it will be able to stay in power. This is particularly the case in Tasmania as I will demonstrate to  Senator James  McClelland in a moment. As I go around Tasmania I find that people are becoming sick and tired of the amount of time that this Government is spending on things such as the legislation we are now considering instead of trying to run the country. Although the Government has been in office for nearly 3 years it still has this preoccupation with trying to make sure that it stays in power. The Labor Party was returned to office in 1974 with a very narrow majority in the House of Representatives. Had about 1000 votes in 3 electorates gone another way we would have had a different government. 
I was not even close at all. What  Senator Devitt  has just said shows that he has not really studied the figures in regard to the Tasmanian situation. With due respect, he does not know what he is talking about. But this is not the point. The point is that the Government had a narrow win. It then looked at the situation and said: 'We have to do something about it'. It has set about trying to do something, but it does not have a mandate to do what it is now trying to do. People do not want this Government or any government to put itself in a position where it cannot be removed from office. The Government has no right to attempt to alter the basis on which redistributions are made at the moment when it has won office by such a slender majority. 1 believe that the people of this country become suspicious and cynical of any government that tries to do this. I do not think that the Government would be able to convince the public that it is not bringing in these Bills for just this reason. The public is entitled to believe that the Government is bringing in the Bills so that it can remain in office for as long as possible. The Bills are being introduced for selfish reasons rather than for the good of the country. Members of the Government have become used to having their big cars and the power of ministerial positions. They have become used to hiring people right, left and centre. 
If the honourable senator looks at my notes he will see that they are in my writing. Perhaps if he stopped reading his newspaper he would be able to listen to what I am saying and realise that it is not rubbish. 
-In that case I will have a glass of water; that may settle me down. No matter what honourable senators opposite may say I believe that this is a blatant attempt by the Government to alter the way in which any future election in this country would go. If a referendum were held on this matter, there is no doubt that the people of Australia would reject it. One must look at the Bills in the context that they are only one part of a number of attempts that the Government has made to alter the system to suit its own selfish ends. In Tasmania there is very little need for a redistribution. 
-Very little reason. 
-A little later I will give reasons for that statement.  Mr Daly,  in his speech in the other House, referring to the Opposition parties, said: 
We invite them to support the basic democratic principles of one vote, one value. That .is the basis of this legislationnothing more, nothing less. ' 
I do not believe that is the situation because in Tasmania the electorates are within 6 per cent of the mean. They are quite easily within the 10 per cent that the Government is striving to obtain. Yet the Government sees this urgent need for a redistribution. That has been said by  Mr Daly.  In my opinion, it is a dishonest attempt by the Government to ensure that it will stay in power, although the people of this country do not want it. 
If one looked at the position in Tasmania one might be able to see why the Government would like a redistribution. I believe that at the next election the Government will lose the Tasmanian seats, in this order: Wilmot, Braddon, Denison and Franklin. We must bear in mind that it has already lost Bass. There may be some alteration to the order in that the Franklin vote could be quite surprising, and the Liberal Party could get more than it will in Denison. Following the 1974 election the number of votes needed by the Opposition to capture Wilmot was only 3 per cent. Only 3 per cent of the people had to change their vote for there to be a change of member. That is only 1240 people. In Denison the figure was less than 3 per cent. We have seen what happened in Bass. I will go into that in a moment. In Braddon less than 5 per cent is needed. In Franklin a 12.9 per cent swing would be required for the seat to change from Labor to Liberal. We saw what happened in the Bass by-election. I place a lot of the blame for Labor's loss on the unemployment in that area. A lot of it was a result of the 25 per cent cut in tariffs and of the plight of the farming industry around that area. At the by-election in Bass Labor got about 37 per cent of the vote. That was before part one of the loans scandal. It was before the postal rises, before the Harradine affair, before the increased freight rates by the Australian National Line and before the rises in air fares. It is obvious that if an election were held tomorrow in Bass the Labor Party would get fewer votes than it did then. 
If that trend continues the Labor Party will lose all the seats that it now holds in Tasmania. In Braddon there is quite a lot of farming. Apparently Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd has hundreds of people out of work. Mount Lyell is in a marginal situation. Peko-Wallsend Ltd on King Island is in a similar situation. A lot of Labor's worries have been brought about by the unemployment situation and the unemployment situation arises from the kind of industries in Tasmania. Inflation is knocking the Labor Party's chances around a heck of a lot. Wilmot would be second to Bass to go to the Liberal Party. I believe that  Mr Duthie  has certainly had it. I think the Labor Party will need to field a very good candidate to have any chance of holding that seat in an election. 
I am saying that is the reason the Government might like to have the redistribution in Tasmania. 
I am not being derogatory. I am giving my opinion. In Wilmot the farming industry is in quite a mess. I believe that even the paper industry in New Norfolk will not maintain its present situation for much longer. In 
Denison and Franklin there is an obvious attempt, in my opinion, to create a situation that will give the Labor Party at least one seat in Tasmania. In Denison the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia is not going too well. Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd, which is nearby, will gradually move to Melbourne. 
It is not necessarily anybody's fault. It is due to the freight increases by ANL because 96 per cent of the ingredients for the chocolate that is shipped out of Tasmania must be imported first. 
I do not think it really matters whether I am No. 3 on the Liberal Party ticket. If I were No. 2 on the Labor Party ticket for Tasmania at the next half Senate election I would be very worried. The figures show that there is a chance that the Labor Party will get only one Senate seat. 
We are not allowed to bet on elections. 
-We will talk a little later about whether we will put something on that. The figures at which I have looked show that the second person on the Labor Party ticket in Tasmania will be in a marginal situation. 
Let us wait and see. When I was speaking recently  Senator McLaren  was not in the chamber. The atmosphere was not as good as it is when he comes in and has a flap in the chamber. 
-This is another of those lovely silences that we sometimes get while Labor Party senators are interjecting. I return to the position in Denison and Franklin. I think honourable senators opposite were trying to distract me. The figures which I quoted earlier show that if there is a swing of about 13 per cent in 
Franklin it will be lost to the Labor Party. It appears to me that the direction has come to the Commissioners in Tasmania that the position should be evened out a bit. The result of the redistribution, no matter how it has been brought about, would be that some of the Labor vote in Franklin would be going to Denison. 

 -Mr President, I withdraw any innuendo or reflection about the Commissioners that may be taken by anybody. I do not say that. But the effect of the redistributionthat is how I concluded the sentence, had  Senator Everett  been listening- is to transfer effectively some Labor votes from Franklin to Denison, making the position such that instead of a 3 per cent swing being needed by the Liberal Party to win Denison under the present situation, a 5 per cent swing would be needed by" the Liberal Party to win Denison under the redistribution. 
If  Senator Poyser  is worried about this, let us look at what  Mr Sherry  said to the Distribution Commissioners. He said: 
I present herewith a submission to the Redistribution Commissioners for the electorate of Franklin, State of Tasmania. Essentially I submit that upon the evidence available there is no justification for any alteration to the present boundaries of the electorate of Franklin at this stage. 
He then gave some figures that I do not think it is necessary to repeat. In conclusion he said: 
I therefore submit that the division of Franklin be not subject to redistribution. 
That was stated by the Labor member for Franklin. I think that  Mr Sherry  wisely would not want a redistribution because he could see some of his Labor votes going to the Denison electorate. Such a redistribution would change the situation in Denison materially, because instead of a 3 per cent swing, a swing of 5 per cent would be needed by the Liberal Party to win that seat. A little while ago such a swing could have been important. Because of the way in which the electorate is going in Tasmania, I believe that at the next election the swing in Tasmania will be such that it does not really matter how many Labor votes are transferred from Franklin to Denison. The point is that Denison was one of the most marginal seats after the last election, and that is why I think the redistribution went the way it did. 
I do not like this redistribution for another reason, and it was mentioned by the previous  speaker.  It is that State elections in Tasmania are fought upon the Federal boundaries. I do not think the Tasmanian people would be very pleased if I did anything that might help ensure  Mr Neilsen  remaining in power any longer than is necessary. I think that the proposed redistribution, particularly this evening out of the situation in Denison and Franklin, is an attempt by the Government to equalise the number of votes that would be needed to win these 2 seats. I am convinced that this is the reason why the Government is trying to push through this redistribution. It is my opinion, too, that this Government has done more damage to this country by attempting to change our whole way of life than any previous government has done. Now that the Government is in a mess electorally I think it will do anything and it will spend all its time, if necessary, in attempting to stay in power. Anyway, I am always suspicious of the work that is done by  Mr Daly  who was, until recently, the Minister for Services and Property. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against and Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I consider that that reference to  Mr Daly,  who is a member of another place, was disorderly, and I ask you to withdraw it. 
-With due respect,  Mr President,  can you point out the words that I used? 
I remember the words. I cannot remember using the word 'highly' because it is a word that I very rarely use,  Mr President.  But if you refer to the word 'suspicious' I withdraw it and say that I have doubts about some of the things that  Mr Daly  brings in. As I have said, I believe that Bills like the ones that we are discussing are being brought in purely to keep Labor in power. The point is that we do not need a redistribution in Tasmania at present. We are well within the 10 per cent tolerance which is the aim of the Government. Following the usual practice a redistribution should not be done in Tasmania for another couple of years. For the reasons that I have mentioned, of course I will be voting against the Bill which concerns Tasmania. When we realise that Tasmania does not need a redistribution and that Western Australia needs a redistribution but that one is not being done in Western Australia, we have to be a little bit suspicious of the whole situation. I believe that if a redistribution was done in Western Australia - 
-It has not just been done. Why is a Bill dealing with Western Australia not among the Bills that we are considering now? 
-The honourable senator is not listening. A redistribution in Western Australia took place quite a long time ago. I said that a Bill concerned with a redistribution in Western Australia is not included among the Bills that we are considering and that a redistribution is more necessary in Western Australia than in Tasmania. If the Government carried out a redistribution in Western Australia, quite obviously it would lose aother seat. 
It is more than 12 months ago that we dealt with that Bill. If  Senator Poyser  listened instead of yacking all the time he would know that a Bill concerned with a redistribution in Western Australia is not included among the Bills that we are considering. 
If it has been done, there is a greater need to do it again in Western Australia than there is to do it in Tasmania, and that is the point that I am making. I believe that at the moment the people of this country are saying: 'Thank God we have a Senate to look after this country and keep things like this from being done'. The Australian people are not stupid, in spite of the fact that some Government supporters think that the people are. I have a great deal of faith in the common sense of the Australian electorate. The Australian people do not want a government that tries to enshrine itself in office. They want a government that they can kick out of office if it does not behave in a way that is fitting to the running of this country. The present Government was elected at the same time as this Senate was elected, yet the Government is always going around saying that the Senate is acting unconstitutionally. It is saying that the Senate is operating outside its mandate and its constitution, and I believe that that is rubbish. The Government, by actions such as that which it is trying to take under these redistribution Bills, is not remaining honest. I will be voting against these Bills. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport by saying that for Tasmanians the main way of travelling interstate is by air and that TAA and Ansett have already had fare rises of more than 20 per cent since July this year. Will the Minister confirm that the Government's 80 per cent cost recovery program will mean that the airlines will have to contribute an additional $32m in landing charges- or air navigation charges, as they are more correctly termed- during the remainder of this financial year? Will the Minister also confirm that the Department of Transport is attempting to exempt the overseas airlines from any additional charges because Australia already has the highest landing charges in the world? Will the Minister admit that its policy of loading additional landing fees of $10m to $12m on to each of TAA and Ansett will result in massive air fare increases of some 20 per cent to 25 per cent, which of course would be so detrimental to the people of Tasmania? 
The Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill (No. 2) that we are dealing with is a relatively small Bill, but for Tasmania it is a very important Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to modify another Bill that we had before us earlier this year to restore the Tasman Bridge and to allow the construction of one additional lane- a fifth lanewhile the bridge is being repaired. I point out to honourable senators that the Schedule to the Bill states: 
. the Tasman Bridge on the Derwent River at Hobart shall be structurally modified to accommodate five lanes of traffic throughout its length concurrently with the restoration of the bridge to a fully operational condition- 
The Senate will remember that the bridge was severely damaged when the  Lake Illawarra  brought down 3 spans early in January this year. That was an unfortunate event and one that bridges of this style are likely to be subject to, particularly in rivers such as the Derwent where there are many large ships travelling to and fro under the bridge. The disruption that this tragic event has wrought upon the lives of all who live in the south of Tasmania has to be seen to be believed. It is not my purpose now to go into that at any great length.  Senator Marriott  has covered that matter to some degree. Those who live in Tasmania and those who have visited the State lately will no doubt have been told by the residents there just what a mess has been caused by the collapse of the bridge. They will know of the thousands of extra miles that some people have to drive each year. They will know of the additional cost that western shore businesses have to incur to service the people of the eastern shore. They will know of the additional cost to people such as farmers who must now pay quite a lot more money to get their stocks shipped to market. They will know also that this state of affairs will persist for a long time. 
The bridge repairs can be completed in 1978 at the earliest and that is provided we do not have too many stikes such as the metal workers strike that we saw recently. That strike continued for about 3 months and further delayed the construction of the temporary bridge. The temporary bridge will have only one lane of traffic initially and it will be available for only priority traffic most of the time. Most of the people of Hobart have adapted well to the broken bridge syndrome that has divided the city. But all of us have one aim, that is, to get the means of transport across the river as soon as possible. The cost of rebuilding this bridge and undertaking the associated roadworks in the meantime will cost somewhere between $50m and $60m. That is a tremendous amount of money to spend on a bridge that may well be knocked down again in the future. For that reason I would like to reiterate that I feel the Joint Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission should have more freedom under the clauses of the Bill and should be empowered to decide whether in fact it is wise to' rebuild the bridge. Clause 4 of the Schedule to the Bill states: 
The Commission shall, by way of addition to its present functions be empowered to exercise and may perform all or any of the functions (hereinafter referred to as 'the additional functions') of superintending, co-ordinating, directing, managing and executing the planning and performance of any work associated with the structural modification of the Bridge throughout its length to accommodate five lanes of vehicular traffic. 
While we are giving the Commission that additional power, I feel we should be giving it also additional power to examine whether this bridge should be rebuilt. I have said at other times that the Tasman Bridge was very near its traffic carrying capacity when it was knocked down. The forecasts that were made in 1958 when the Tasman Bridge design was chosen instead of the suspension alternative, which was the one recommended by the Parliamentary Committee looking into what type of bridge should be built across the Derwent, anticipated that about 25 000 people would be living on the eastern shore at this time. We all know that there is now about twice that number in that area. That is the reason why this bridge was nearing its capacity. Tasmanians will know that before the  Lake Illawarra  incident the lanes of the bridge were divided into 3 lanes going one way and one lane going the other way during peak periods. All the construction of this additional lane will do is to add one additional lane to the traffic that is going against the mainstream; in other words, it will not help a great deal. The construction of one additional lane is not enough. Although it will help it will not help in the way in which help is most needed. Six lanes are needed. In that way there could be 4 lanes going one way and 2 lanes going the other. The direction of those lanes could be reversed when the traffic is mainly going one way or the other, but that will not be possible or practicable with the construction of 5 lanes. 
In my opinion the only safe way in which Hobart can have a bridge of the right size is by the building of a suspension bridge of some 6 or 7 lanes between the Domain and Rosny. That is what was actually recommended by the parliamentary committee in 1958. Suspension bridges are inherently safer, their design is reasonably straightforward and, of course, they cannot be hit by ships. It is also likely that the cost of the construction of a suspension bridge would be about or marginally more than the amount that is presently contemplated to be spent on repairing the Tasman Bridge. 
-Yes. As an example I mention a bridge of almost exactly the size as the one I am talking about that was recently built in Canada between Halifax and Dartmouth. The construction of that bridge was decided upon in June 1967 and it was opened in July 1970. The cost of the bridge at the time of its opening was Can$30.5m. Of that amount Can$3.6m was used to buy property for the approaches and almost Can$1 lm was used on building those approaches. So the bridge cost some Can$ 161. I realise that following the opening of that bridge an additional $ Im or $2m was spent on finishing it off and that costs nowadays are more than they used to be. Nevertheless even if it were to cost us twice as much as that one cost to build a bridge in Hobart we would be spending only roughly what is now being spent on repairing the Tasman Bridge. Another thing that one has to remember with respect to bridges and other engineering structures, such as dams and things like that, is that they are meant to last for some 100 years. That is the usual design minimum for such structures. 
I believe that the Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission should have the power to investigate whether the Tasman Bridge should be rebuilt and to recommend, if necessary, the construction of a bridge of a different style. It is no good throwing good money after bad money and it is no good rebuilding a bridge that may well be knocked down again. I believe that it would be wrong to take anything but a long term view. It can be seen from the mention I have made of the bridge that was constructed in Canada that even from the design stage to the opening stage the suspension bridge there took only 3 years and one month to build. I do not believe that it is too late to take advantage of such an opportunity. In fact I believe that such a new bridge could be built more quickly than we may well find it will take to repair the Tasman Bridge. 
There are just a couple of other matters that I would like to raise at this stage. Some roads are falling into disrepair because of the extra traffic that is going over them as a result of the damage to the Tasman Bridge and those roads need a lot more attention. A couple that come to mind are the roads that run from the RichmondColebrook area to the Tasman Highway on the east coast and the Midway Point to Brinktop road. That one could well be sealed and provide a convenient outlet for some thousands of people who now use it because the Tasman Bridge is down. I would also like to mention that I feel that some special help is needed for places like the Sorell saleyards. Those saleyards are likely to fold because of the extra distance that cattle must be shipped from Sorell to the abattoir at Derwent Park. Also, as  Senator Marriott  has said, the people in the Tasman peninsula area have to pay an extra $100 for each load of cattle or sheep. Of course, the price that they are getting for some of their animals these days makes it very difficult for them to afford to do so. I would like to see the implementation of some form of subsidy. 
I wish to comment now on one of the matters raised by  Senator Everett.  He blamed the Senate vote last week for holding up the supply of funds for this restoration work. I would like to reiterate the point that I made by way of interjection whilst he was speaking, that is, that my vote last week was given in the way it was because I regard the removal of the dishonest Government that now occupies the treasury bench as being of great importance to this country. My vote last week was a vote against a dishonest Government. 
I preface a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that some invalids are debarred from receiving an invalid pension due to the income of their spouse and because the invalid, who might be very badly incapacitated, does not receive the invalid pension the invalid's spouse cannot claim a housekeeper as a taxation deduction. I ask: Will the Minister examine the taxation legislation and see if it can be amended so that a housekeeper can be claimed as a tax deduction in cases such as I have mentioned? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I preface my question by saying that no doubt the Minister has been made aware of the shortening of the working week at the Cadbury company in Hobart in an effort to stop the retrenchment of about 1 50 people. I ask: When was the Minister made aware of the plight of the Cadbury company? What action has he taken to assist that company? In any discussions with the company has it intimated that it will eventually close the plant at Hobart and leave the State? Finally, what influence has the recent freight rate increase by the Australian National Line had on Cadbury company's decision? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. No doubt the Minister will realise the importance of air transport to and from Tasmania and appreciate that any increase in air fares is detrimental both to the economy of the State from the tourist point of view and to those Tasmanians who need to travel from the State. I ask: Will the Minister confirm that, if the Government proceeds with its cost recovery program and loads all that cost on to the domestic airlines, air fares will need to rise some 15 per cent to 20 per cent? Will the Minister agree that already, following the recent rises in air fares, the rate of increase in Trans-Australia Airlines passengers is far below what is needed for a viable operation and that any further increase in air fares will lead to retrenchments by that company? Finally, will the Minister also agree that the inflexible pursuit of the policy of cost recovery will price flying beyond the reach of the average citizen and that only the very rich will be able to afford to travel by air- something, I would have thought, which was completely contrary to Labor policy? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I preface the question by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of the financial difficulties of the Mount Lyell mining company and that if that company is not assisted financially it may be faced with mass sackings with obvious disastrous effects on the west coast of Tasmania. Is the inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission into the copper industry, which was commissioned by the previous Government, to proceed? If so, when can a report be expected? Has the Minister yet received any request either directly from the company or from the Tasmanian Government for help for the company? If so, what action is intended? 
-I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that many people would like to know the makeup of and what chemicals have been added to any of the food that they eat. Does the Minister know of any recommendations from the Department of Health or of any directions to food companies to list the components of foods and any chemical that may be added, whether it be flavouring, colouring or as a preservative? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of the importance of the fishing industry to Tasmania. I ask: Now that the Commonwealth is in charge of the seas around Australia, has consideration been given yet to establishing fishery reserves in chosen areas around Tasmania and near other States, so that these areas at least will not be fished out and can therefore act as fish nurseries? If not, will the 
Minister bring the matter to the attention of both the Department and the State governments? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications yet able to say when or whether pushbutton telephones will be made available in Australia? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, by saying that no doubt he is aware of the difficulties that are caused to the people of Tasmania whenever there is a strike which involves disruption of air services to that State. Does the Minister recognise the very special needs of Tasmania and will he ask the unions involved to maintain services to Tasmania if at all possible, even if there are stoppages of services to other States? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the amount of the successful tender made for the aircraft carrier HMAS 'Sydney '. 
To whom was it sold. 
Were any other tenders received. 
Were any of the other tenders of a greater amount than that which was accepted. 
5 ) What were the amounts of the other tenders. 
From which countries did tenders of amounts higher than the successful one originate. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that a family with 4 children would receive child endowment of $5.75 a week and yet if, due to divorce, the family were divided into 2 groups with each parent looking after 2 children, each group would receive only $1.50 a week- a total of $3. In other words, at a time when the need for endowment is greater, less is actually given to each parent. Has the Minister any plans to remedy this situation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister has had his attention drawn to the article on the front page of a newspaper last week which indicated that postage may have to be increased to 23c if the userpays principle established by the Labor Government continues. Does the Government agree with the user-must-pay principle? Is the Minister yet able to say whether it is proposed to subsidise the Australian Postal Commission so that postage fees will not be allowed to increase unduly because of the undesirable effect that such rises have on inflation, the number of letters posted and the consequent employment prospects for those in the Australian Postal Commission? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport relates to the statement about the Omega base that may be set up in Australia. I preface my question by saying that it has been reported that the closer a ship gets to an Omega base the greater the area of uncertainty of its position. Therefore, a ship close to an Omega base cannot accurately navigate by the use of the Omega system. I ask: Is the Minister able to say how far a ship must be from an Omega base to obtain accurate navigation, as would be necessary, say, in Bass Strait? Has the Minister any knowledge of tests for sites that have been carried out in Tasmania? 
-Last night  Senator McLaren  spoke on several medical topics.  Senator Baume  dealt with  Senator McLaren's  knowledge or lack of knowledge of pathology and the fact that the information that is obtained from some pathological examinations is not always very useful.  Senator McLaren  also spoke briefly upon the decision of the Government to sell the Fawnmac group of companies. He seemed to think that by retaining the Fawnmac group the Government would be able to ensure that medicine prices came down or at least would stay at their present level. I find that very difficult to believe. Perhaps before we look at the proposal to set up a government-run drug manufacturing industry we should look at some of the present commissions that are run by the Government. For instance I do not believe that if we examined the operations of TransAustralia Airlines we would be able to show that they were very profitable. That airline certainly is not run as profitably as the privately controlled airline. The 30th report of TAA shows that the dividend paid to the Government fell from $1.5m at June 1973 to $100,000 at June 1974 and then lifted to $ 1.25m at June 1975. The report also shows that in spite of a very large increase in turnover of about one-quarter, obtained mainly by massive fare increases, the wages bill increased by about one-third, so staff numbers did not increase; in fact they decreased. Yet if one continues to look at this report one sees that TAA contributed only that $ 1.25m by way of a dividend to the Government, which is a very low and unreal level of dividend from such a concern. Perhaps that example shows better than anything that government-run industries, whether they be under ministerial control or operating as commissions, are just not as efficient as privately-run concerns. Therefore I agree with the assertion of the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  that at the present time there is no reason for the continuation of government ownership of Fawnmac and that greater benefits will accrue to the country by returning the group to private enterprise. I believe that private enterprise- free competition- is the only area of the economy that can rescue this country from the economicmess created by the Labor Government. It has been shown in other countries that privately-run companies are more efficient than government organisations, because whenever governments interfere profitability and jobs seem to disappear. I hope that when the Government does get around to selling Fawnmac- I hope that that happens fairly soon- it does all it can to see that at least the bulk of the ownership remains in the hands of Australian citizens. 
I want to say a little about the way in which the ex-Prime Minister has done all he can to downgrade the office of the Governor-General. I believe that what the ex-Prime Minister has been doing is counter-productive and that it does the Labor Party a lot of damage. Of course Labor does not really have much else to talk about. All the troubles that we have in Australia at this time are of Labor's making. We have inflation; the cost of living went up over 50 per cent while Labor was in power; in other words the dollar of a year or two ago is now worth only 60c to 65c. So Labor does not want to talk about that. 
While Labor was in power unemployment went up and up until last year we saw a situation of which even some of the socialists who sit opposite were plainly ashamed. It is a situation which I agree will take a long time to repair, but the Labor Party does not want to talk about that either. Then there was the Labor tax rip-off. Pay as you earn tax leapt some 90-odd per cent during the last 2 years of Labor administration even though wages did not increase at anything like that rate. In company tax the take from companies was some extra 60 per cent, and this was at a time when companies were having trouble staying afloat. They were having to put people off yet the then Government continued to take this money from them. So it is obvious that  Mr Whitlam  cannot spend much of his time talking about those things. 
We only have to look at what happened to air fares. While Labor was in power the cost of travel to and from Tasmania just about doubled, and air travel is now just about out of the reach of the ordinary people who want to travel backwards and forwards to this larger island for one reason or another. This was due mainly to increases of wages and of things like fuel tax and landing charges- I believe they are called air charges in the report- which just about doubled for the domestic airlines under Labor. So  Mr Whitlam  does not want us or his colleagues to talk about these things. He simply has set on a track to attack the Governor-General who, he knows, cannot easily defend himself. Never let it be forgotten who appointed the GovernorGeneral.  Mr Whitlam  did. He had the choice; he chose  Sir John  Kerr.  (Quorum formed)  I notice that hardly any of the Labor Party senators came into the chamber after  Senator Georges'  call for a quorum. 
I admit that it is not for the honourable senator to keep the House. Before  Senator Georges  called for the quorum I was saying that the Labor Party keeps attacking the Governor-General because I do not think that  Mr Whitlam  has anything to talk about considering the troubles and the economic mess in which he has left this country. I mentioned inflation, unemployment, the cost of air fares, the Labor tax rip-off and things of that kind. I was going on to say that we have to remember that it was  Mr Whitlam  who chose  Sir John  Kerr. When  Sir John  did what he had to do to protect this country from an attempt to set up a dictatorship, which I believe was what  Mr Whitlam  wanted,  Mr Whitlam  started to attack and has continued to attack the Governor-General. 
I do not believe that the people of Australia- the people who put us here- can be fooled. They worked out whom they wanted in government on December 13, and they ratified the action of  Sir John  Kerr at that time. It appears that we now have the situation that  Mr. Whitlam  just cannot take it. Either he cannot take it or there could be one other explanation, and that is the explanation that I find is being mentioned increasingly as I go around this country. It is that this matter has become an obsession with him. I would never be one to say that any member of a particular House, either this one or the other, has gone round the bend, but what is being said increasingly in this country is that  Mr Whitlam  has gone around the political bend. He has become quite paranoiac about his being sacked by the Governor-General. 
I said that I would never be one to say it, but if I were to say it I would certainly not be the first to do so. We have to remember always that  Mr Whitlam  chose  Sir John.  I hope that one of these days he sees the light and settles down again to acting like a rational person; lately it has appeared that he will never do that again. I mention one other matter briefly before I close- the suggestion that has been floated lately that we should allow advertising on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I think that would be quite disastrous, and personally I would rather see the ABC disbanded than see advertisements being allowed in its broadcasting and television. In places like Hobart and Launceston television companies have been able to maintain a fairly stable profit by keeping down their numbers of staff over the last 2 years. If the ABC were allowed to carry advertising we would find the ABC was competing with those private stations for the advertising dollars. Without a doubt, it would send those private stations broke. I believe that that is exactly what the Labor Party wanted and what it eventually might have obtained had it been returned to power in the last general election. 
-After hearing the honourable senator interject like that, I am going to take some Vincent's just as soon as I sit down. Let us be quite clear: I do not believe that the 
Liberal Party should consider for one moment allowing the ABC to carry advertisements. It would certainly be to the detriment of television in cities such as Launceston and Hobart and no doubt in other areas of Australia. I believe that a great number of people who regularly watch the ABC, perhaps to avoid the advertisements to which  Senator Mulvihill  referred, would oppose the ABC carrying advertisements. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security, but it might be better directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that some invalids are debarred from receiving an invalid pension due to the income of their spouse and because the invalid, who might be very badly incapacitated, does not receive the invalid pension the invalid 's spouse cannot claim a housekeeper as a taxation deduction. Will the Minister examine the taxation legislation and see whether it can be amended so that a housekeeper can be claimed as a tax deduction in cases such as I have mentioned? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What amounts and to what groups and individuals were sporting grants made during (a) 1 974 and (b) 1 975. 
What was the total of these amounts. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I preface it by saying that the Minister no doubt is aware that there is much spare capacity on many of the telephone systems in Australia. Has the Minister considered allowing people who live in areas outside capital cities to make free telephone calls to Commonwealth departments located in capital cities, such as the Taxation Office, the Department of Social Security and the Department of Repatriation, so that those people can have the same access to and services from those departments as do people who live in the cities? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Does he agree that the delivery of mail via a post office box saves the Postal Commission a great deal of money and yet there are now considerable fees for post office boxes which benefit the Commission as much as or more than the mail recipients? Is the Minister able to confirm that due to the high charges for post office boxes, many box holders are cancelling that facility? Will the Minister ask his colleague to request the Commission to examine the charges for these boxes? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface the question by saying that any reduction of the costs of operation of the civil aviation section of the Department of Transport helps directly to keep down the cost of airline fares, which is so important to Tasmania. I ask: Does the Government still intend to purchase, at a cost of many millions of dollars, 3 small jet aircraft- Fokker F28s- for use mainly in checking the navigational aids around Australia? What will be the cost of operating these aircraft and is the Minister convinced that their purchase is entirely necessary? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of the danger that could have been caused to this country had the Labor Government remained in office and managed to develop the Department of the Media into more of a propaganda department than it actually did. I therefore ask: In view of the wide publicity given to the abolition of the Department of the Media, can the Minister advise what has happened to the staff of this Department, particularly the senior officers, and how many have actually left the Public Service? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Treasurer given consideration to minting a silver dollar, either annually or to commemorate special events. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. No doubt the Minister is aware of the effect on air fares in Australia of the Government's policy of cost recovery. I ask: Has the Minister seen a study of  Mr Kevin  Cho of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology in which he advocates 2 solutions to the problem of cost recovery from the civil aviation sector, namely, the abandonment of the cost recovery program or, alternatively, the implementation of the policy in a practical way by apportioning cost recovery measures where the major costs are and where the costs can be absorbed without causing continuing problems? I also ask: Is the Minister able to say when the Government will make public its policy towards this matter of recovery of costs from civil aviation because of its vital bearing on the cost of air fares to the whole country and particularly to Tasmania which is so dependent on air travel? 
I also rise to oppose clause 7. The decision to abolish funeral benefits is a decision which I feel was fed to the Government by the Department of Social Security when very necessary cuts in government spending were instituted by the present Government- cuts which would not have been necessary if the Labor Government had not stuffed up the economy. Anyway, that decision was accepted in good faith early in the life of the Government; so it now appears in the Bill as clause 7 and the related clause 1 1 which we will discuss later. I have had a great deal of heart searching over this matter in the last few weeks. The amount involved in pension funeral benefits is, of course, small. It is somewhat less than $500,000. That is the amount which will be required between now and the Budget, and the amount involved over a full year is approximately $1.7m. That amount must be read in the context of government spending of some $2 5, 000m. So it can be seen that it is a very small amount indeed. I am convinced that the retention of this benefit will not harm the economy at all. 
I have had association and friendship, I hope, with some thousands of pensioners over the years, and many of them voted for me. I will not let them down at this time. I have therefore made the not too difficult decision to vote for the deletion of this clause. On the whole I believe that pensioners will fare much better under this Government. We must remember that the Labor Party is the only Party ever to have reduced pensions. Any efforts to control inflation, which affects pensioners so much, will of course get my full support. This benefit is not inflationary. It is a small amount and I campaigned on the pledge that pensioners would be looked after. As I said, I believe that pensioners will be looked after better by this Government. 
-You are really out of date as usual. The rabbit is at it again. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! The honourable senator will address his remarks to the Chair. 
-The rabbit does not know when he is well off. 
I wish to quote from certain sections of a document which I feel will be of interest to honourable senators on both sides of the Senate. The quotation commences thus: 

 Mr Whitlam arrived at approximately 8 a.m. and met the Iraqi visitors around the breakfast table which was prepared and served by my wife. 

 Mr Whitlam said that he welcomed the visitors and he wanted to thank the  President  of Iraq for sending them at such a crucial time when democracy had been overthrown in Australia. 
He wanted to make plain that the Australian crisis was due to a  coup d'etat  having taken place and therefore he welcomed the friendship of the progressive country of Iraq. 
He said that Australia was part of the Third World whether Imperialism wanted it or not. 

 Mr Whitlam would commit himself to visit Iraq officially in his capacity of the real and democratically elected Prime Minister of Australia and would cement the relationship on a strong and permanent relationship between the 2 countries. 

 Mr Takriti pulled out of his briefcase ; 
-This is the bit that you might be interested in. Do not miss this bit. 
I will get to that in a minute. Do not get excited. The document continues: 

 Mr Takriti pulled out of his briefcase a very large, thick white envelope (approximately 15 inches square) and a letter, and then gave the letter to  Mr Whitlam  to read saying: This is a presidential message to you which I have been asked to give you by hand '. 

 Mr Whitlam read the letter and  Mr Takriti  presented him with the large envelope. 

 Mr Whitlam turned his head towards  Mr David  Combe and gave him the letter and indicated to  Mr Takriti  to give the large envelope to  Mr Combe  saying 'Well, you will look after this'. 
On page 3 1 the document states: 

 Mr Whitlam then said to  Mr Takriti:  'I want to thank you very much for this generous help, but I am afraid that due to election pressures I must now leave because I have an appointment with the television station and 1 am only sorry that I cannot talk to you more. If only you could have stayed in Australia I could have talked to you longer but I must go now. I sincerely hope to see you in Baghdad when I come there'. 
I now turn to page 33 which reads: 
The whole conversation lasted for approximately 1 hour and contained many statements by all parties on Imperialism and Zionist pressure and  Mr Whitlam  said the Jewish pressures were enormous in Australia and the Iraqis must understand what the democratic forces in Australia were going through to withstand these pressures. 
I turn then to page 35. It refers to the fact that the gentleman who wrote this letter was travelling with the 2 Iraqis. 
I said that I will tell honourable senators that in a moment. It reads: 
During this trip with the two Iraqis, I was told by  Mr Takriti  (as translated by  Mr yeyah)  that the package handed to  Mr Combe  contained half a million dollars and that another half a million would be forthcoming and that it would be useful if the Labor Party could prepare an account for them. 
That was a quotation from part of a document that appears to have been dictated by one Henry John Fischer. It has been added to and corrected by him in his own writing. The statement is some 40 pages long. It is not closely typed. Pages 36 and 37 have been removed in the interests of security of people in other parts of the world. In light of the mystery and the confused statements that have surrounded the Iraqi money affair, and in the interests of the public, I believe that the statement should become public. There are a couple of other parts of the statement that I would like to quote before I sit down. On page 41 the document states: 
At the beginning of the negotiations  Mr Hartley  had assured  Mr Whitlam  that should it ever be known that Arab money has been used he would assume total responsibility and  Mr Hartley  appeared to be ready to take the blame personally and be the scapegoat for everything. He said 'we are going to back Gough all the way and Gough had nothing to do with it'. 
There is one part that I would like to quote on page 42 of the document. It reads: 
The final interesting point that I have forgotten to mention was that the Iraqis had said they would 'put money into the militant unions- not the soft ones'. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to table that document. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has the Minister considered allowing people who live in areas outside the capital cities to make free telephone calls to Commonwealth Departments, such as the Taxation Office, the Department of Social Security and the Repatriation Department in the capital cities so that these people can have the same access to, and service from the Departments, as do people who live in the cities. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to my question on notice No. 427 to which I have received an answer today. I asked what arrangements could be made for persons who live away from capital cities to telephone Commonwealth departments at local call rate so that they might have the same access to those departments as do people who live in the cities. The answer states that Telecom Australia has advised that such an arrangement is not technically possible at the moment. I now ask: Has Telecom Australia indicated to the Minister an aim to develop such a capability? When it is technologically possible what will be the Government's attitude to allowing long distance calls to be made to Commonwealth departments at local call rates? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it intended to aircondition the 'fingers' at Melbourne Airport (Tullamarine); if so when will this be done. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost of the gymnasium constructed at the University of Tasmania. 
When was it completed. 
3 ) Why has it not been opened for use by students. 
When will the building be opened. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Industry and Commerce who, I believe is responsible for tourist matters. I preface the question by pointing out that no doubt the Minister is aware that the tourist industry is an extremely important one to the Tasmanian economy and is a large employer, particularly of females. Is the Minister aware that any government impost that leads to an increase in air fares, such as an increase in fuel tax, has a detrimental effect on tourism to and from Tasmania? If the Government follows the suggestion to increase the cost of petrol by way of increased tax- a suggestion that I hope the Government does not follow- does the Government intend to increase also the tax on aviation fuel, with its obvious restrictive effect on the growth of the tourist industry? Has the Government considered setting up a committee to examine all aspects of tourism and the effects of all taxes and charges upon tourism? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) When does the Government intend to make public its policy relating to cost recovery from civil aviation. 
Does the Government intend to seek advice from the airlines and other interested parties with regard to the effect of cost recovery prior to its announcement. 
I should like to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate which follows a question asked a minute or two ago by  Senator 0  'Byrne. Is the Minister able to say whether the indication that the Labor Party had done well in the Hobart seat for the Legislative Council, as intimated by  Senator 0  'Byrne, is accurate or simply shows that the honourable senator does not understand figures? Is it a fact that actually there was quite a large drop in the Labor vote in the seat compared with 6 years ago, which I think most people would take as an indication of the present support of the Liberal Party in Tasmania? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
) What is the term of their appointment. 
When was each member appointed. 
What is the date of expiration of the members' terms. 
What qualifications and general experience does each member possess. 
What previous experience in the radio and television industries does each member possess. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer by saying that yesterday we heard the Minister for Social Security indicate that the Government was examining monthly payments of child endowment because the Government felt the money should be put in the hands of those to whom it belonged as soon as possible. I ask the Minister: In view of that attitude, will the Government examine the possibility of adding interest to the refunds made after 1 July by the Taxation Office at the same rate as the Taxation Office charges interest on overdue payments? In other words, if a refund were made at the end of August would 2 months' interest be added to the amount of the refund? Also, if the Taxation Office objects to an item that has been deducted by a taxpayer but eventually refunds the deduction on that item- incidentally, that refund is often made as much as a year or so after the objection is raised by the taxpayer- will the Government also consider adding interest to the refunded amount so that the taxpayer is not disadvantaged? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It has been prompted by a statement in an advertisement which I saw yesterday and in which Telecom Australia says that it has launched a multi-million dollar project to modernise the public telephone system. The advertisement goes on to say that new types of telephones and telephone booths will be offered to the public to give a more reliable service, and that further STD calling facilities will be made available. I ask: Does Telecom Australia intend to increase dramatically the number of public telephones available, which would seem to me to be much more important than to upgrade the types of telephones that are available? What are the criteria upon which Telecom Australia decides whether to install a public telephone in any area? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Can he tell the Senate whether the Government is keeping a list of the ages and occupations of those people who have been arrested at demonstrations this year? Can he state whether they are students? 
I thought that would raise a response from honourable senators of the Australian Labor Party. Is it true that the Government- perhaps this part of the question should be listened to by the Minister for Educationis considering ceasing financial support by way of fees and allowances for those students who are arrested and who are found guilty due to their actions at demonstrations? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that New Zealand solid pack pie apple is being sold in eastern Australia for $ 1 5 a dozen tins whereas the comparable Tasmanian packed pie apple costs $18 a dozen? Can the Minister advise the Senate what quantity of New Zealand apples is being sold? Does he regard this as dumping? Does the Minister realise the damaging effect this will have on the already beleaguered Tasmanian apple industry if these apples are continued to be allowed into Australia? What action is being taken by the Government? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer the following question: Is it true that unless Commonwealth employees have filled in a health insurance levy exemption claim form- that is the yellow one that has not always been available at places where it should have been- and lodged it with their employer by Thursday this week they will have the  2Vi  per cent levy deducted from their pay for October and not have it repaid to them until after the end of the financial year? Further, as individuals do not have to join the health funds of their choice until the end of this month, will the Government see that its employees are not forced to make this loan to the Taxation Office which of course pays it back but does not pay it back with interest as many people feel it should? 
-Is the Minister for Social Security able to advise the Senate of the amount of money sent overseas last year by way of pensions paid to those who choose to live no longer in Australia? What are the basic requirements which must be satisfied before such payments are made to those who live overseas? Does the Government intend to alter those provisions? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. No doubt the Minister is aware that some people are allergic to artificial colouring and preservative agents used in food. 
Especially red, as  Senator Devitt  mentioned. Also the Minister will be aware of the doubt that has been voiced recently about the safety of some of the colouring and preservative agents as they may prove to be cancerous. Some of the red I can think of would be cancerous. When does the Government intend to legislate to require manufacturers to list on the label the ingredients of any edible food so that those people who wish to choose foods free from certain ingredients will be able to do so? 

 -Mr President- 

I was wondering whether I would get an interjection before the minute went. It is with great enthusiasm that I rise at one minute to eleven to talk about the Bills we have before us. 
I was wondering also whether I would get a point of order but I doubt that that is possible. One of the most perplexing problems for any government, whether it be socialist or conservative, is the health care of its country's population. No matter what is said and what has already been said, the fundamental truth of the matter is that all of us would like to see a situation in which everyone receives sufficient attention to the health worries that they might have. But in a modern community the total cost of providing all the services that people want- I use the word 'want' rather than the word need'- is likely to be so prohibitive that a line has to be drawn. 
Debate interrupted. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by saying that no doubt he is aware that many telephone subscribers and companies complain that their telephone accounts are too high due to incorrect charging to their accounts or the misuse of telephones by employees, but they have no way of proving their claim. Will the Minister table a list of the number of complaints received in each State for each of the last 6 months? Is the Minister able to say whether Telecom Australia is planning to introduce a telephone call recording system so that subscribers are able to tell when a long distance call is made, to whom it is made and the duration of the call, as, I believe, is the practice in other countries? Is it correct that Telecom Australia will not install such a system because it realises that if a subscriber could check the account in that way much better supervision of the use of telephones would be possible and revenue could fall off a good deal? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of a growing body of evidence to the effect that the smoking of marihuana, even a moderate amount two or three times a week, can lead to potential damage to the entire cellular process of the body and damage to the respiratory system. There is also evidence that points to the serious possibility of irreversible  brain damage amongst those who smoke marihuana. No doubt the Minister is also aware that in the United States of America a large number of people in their teens and early twenties already suffer irreversible brain damage and, whilst their ability to function improves if they abandon cannabis - 
It sounds as though honourable senators opposite are suffering from it. 
Before this debate was interrupted last night I was saying that health care in Australia- or any other country, for that matter- is one of the most perplexing problems that any government can have. I think all of us want to see that the health needs of the population are satisfied. I said also that in a modern community the cost of providing the health services that all the people want- I use the word 'want' rather than the word 'need' because some people tend to want many more services than they need- becomes so prohibitive that a line has to be drawn somewhere between what the Government is prepared to pay for and what the people themselves should be prepared to pay for. It has been shown in other countries that any attempt to provide totally free services leads to a strain on the economy that no responsible government can be prepared to allow. I believe that that is what we have seen developing already in Australia, even though the Medibank scheme has been operating for only a year or so. Of course, even before Medibank was introduced costs were escalating, but I do not think that the strain on the government sector was rising as rapidly as it has risen since Medibank was introduced. All the indications were that the rise in medical costs would continue. If the previous scheme had continued it would have been a rapidly increasing expense which the general taxpayer would have to meet. 
Earlier this year we saw the introduction of the first legislation to alter the Labor Medibank scheme. That action was taken relatively early and before the situation was allowed to get right out of hand. I believe that the changes were necessary. We now have a need for those who can afford it to insure themselves privately with one of the private funds or with the government fund. Of course, people can do nothing about private insurance and pay a levy on their salary. During the last weeks I have spoken to many people about health insurance and have found that a fair deal of confusion is abroad. Our opponents have tried to add to this confusion and to capitalise upon it. I do not think that car stickers such as 'Medibank slashed; what next?' are entirely truthful. No doubt such stickers are printed and sported by those of our opponents who would like to see the economy of Australia ruined. However, I believe that the general population realises that it has to pay for medical services one way or another. I believe also that the man in the street will be pleased to see the Government attempt to rein in expenditure on health, because he realises that there cannot be an entirely free health scheme. I believe that once people have decided which scheme they will support the confusion which is abroad now will diminish rapidly. 
The complexity of health care services- they are complex because in a country such as Australia they have to cater for so many different groups in the community- results in complicated legislation. No doubt, in the next few years other amendments will have to be made to the National Health Act to cater for the changing needs of the community. Incidentally, I should like to say that I have been a member of the Medical Benefits Fund for a considerable number of years. 
-In deference to  Senator Brown,  although we are not on the air I will say that I have been a member of a private health fund. 1 have chosen to remain in that scheme. Several factors have influenced my decision: Firstly, I believe in the free enterprise sector and I support the free enterprise health funds in the same way, 1 suppose, as I support the free enterprise airlines, whenever I can, rather than the government enterprise. It seems to me that the Government agencies are socialistic. That is why I chose a private fund. Secondly, I have always had good service from the - 
I do not, because I paid my fee direct. I can show the honourable senator the receipt from the fund, if he likes and he can see that what he just said is not correct. 
-Not if it is paid direct to MBF. The honourable senator will have to join that fund so he can find out the secrets involved. In Tasmania a great many people are much better off for being members of the private funds. Over past years we have seen some 70 per cent of Australians retain some form of private health insurance, and I believe a great many of these will remain in the private funds. 
We have before us today certain legislation that seeks to amend legislation that was considered earlier this year. This legislation has been introduced in accordance with a promise made by the Government following discussions with different groups, the health funds, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other interested parties. The aim of some of the amendments is to help the efficiency of the funds and so to keep the costs of funds down and, indirectly, keep contributors ' costs down. 
Let us hope that they can improve. It is interesting to see that, in spite of the levy that all honourable senators on the Labor benches have been complaining about, the Government's contribution to health will still be of the order of $1,1 20m. That is about $100 each year for each man, woman and child. It represents about one-third of the total cost. State revenue will also contribute a sizeable amount. Between the States and the insurance funds about $180 per person per year will be contributed and the Medibank levy will only make up something like $30 for each person each year. 
-The honourable senator might think that $375m towards the Government - 
I did not say it was not worth the trouble. I think it is worth the trouble and I shall get on to why I think it is worth the trouble in just a moment. The break-up per person per year is $100 from the Commonwealth, about $180 from the other 2 areas that I mentioned and about $30 from the levy. So the levy will make only a small contribution, I agree. Most of the money for health care comes from those who already pay high taxation. We have heard some criticism about the ceiling for the levy. People on higher incomes pay higher tax, both to the State and to the Commonwealth, and they also pay the highest levy. So we rightly have those people in the community who can afford to do so paying towards the health care of the less fortunate. I believe that that is the way it should be. Do not honourable senators opposite believe that? 
-People on higher incomes are paying more tax to the State and to the Commonwealth; so they are contributing more than the average towards, the health care of the country and therefore towards the less fortunate. That is quite simple, straightforward and obvious to all except some who do not want to see. 
-Who is running this show? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-Order! 
Some people have criticised those who have taken out extra hospital cover for private hospitals. I cannot find any criticism of that. I do not think that any of us would deny that the public hospitals in this country offer a very good service but some people, quite fairly and rightly, have decided that they want the services of a private hospital. I can find no fault with catering for the need. If people are prepared to pay an extra levy towards that I can find no criticism of that action. 
-Yes, I know, but the insurance that one pays is used for that too. That is not a very good argument. Some of the arguments I have heard in this chamber over the past day or so have not been very conclusive. If people want to go to a private hospital I do not see why they should not be allowed to do so. It may be that they want to go to a hospital in a certain area or that they want to go to a hospital of a certain religious persuasion. That is a right I certainly support but there is more to it than that. The private hospitals of this country have offered a service over many years. If they were forced to close not only would this place a tremendous strain upon the public hospitals but it would also leave the community much worse off and much poorer than it is at the moment. 
I will make a couple of comments about Medibank private insurance. It is interesting to see that those members of the Labor Party who once upon a time complained with great gusto about the number of health funds have not complained nearly as often or as loudly about the establishment of Medibank private insurance. It makes me wonder whether such people are serious in their claims that there are too many funds. Would it be closer to the truth that ideologically they want a socialist fund that they hope they would one day be able to use to squeeze the private funds out of existence. 
-That is what they will try to do. 
It was a surprise to me that Medibank private insurance was established at all but it was. Medibank private insurance is a registered organisation subject to all the rules and regulations that relate to the conduct of private health funds under this legislation. It will have no competitive advantage over the other funds. In this case it will have to meet all the costs that the private funds usually have to pay such as payroll tax, sales tax and stamp duty. In no way is it intended by the Government that Medibank private insurance will have an advantage or an edge over the private funds. I am pleased to see that the Government has insisted upon that although personally I would have been happier if Medibank private insurance had not been started. As a private enterprise person I believe that private enterprise could have handled the insurance situation in an efficient manner. I believe that unless we have some financial disincentive - 
I am not pleased to see that there are still only 3 Labor senators in the chamber. That quorum was called by our friend, the senator from South Australia, who I believe has the nickname 'Feathers'. I do not know whether that is because he thinks he is an eagle. I reckon he is more like a starling than an eagle. Anyway, I appreciate the honourable senator's thoughts. I assure him that my comments are made with good grace. I believe that there should be a financial disincentive. Unless there is, the costs of health care in the community tend to get right out of hand. I know that some people will say that a financial disincentive may stop somebody going to the doctor when he needs to. I admit that could be true. But it is also true that if people go to the doctor as often as they want to go, without any cost to themselves, it puts a strain on the health services which the country cannot stand. It is then likely that t he number of deaths that would result directly from the stretching of the health services of the country would be higher than the number of deaths that would result from a slight financial disincentive. A levy does not stop people going to a doctor. It is a human nature that if one pays towards something one will try to get a return from it- in this case from the health services. Therefore, we need a levy to help pay for the scheme. As I have pointed out, the levy is not a sizeable contribution to the cost of the whole scheme. We need a slight financial disincentive to stop over-use yet we still have to allow those without the means to receive the health care they may need at any time. I feel that these amendments help towards that aim. 
The amendments also relieve the funds of paper work which they felt was unnecessary, such as sending in a list to the Government of all their contributors each year. Individuals can easily identify the fund to which they belong in their taxation returns in the same way that they give other information which the Government requires. The amendments also remove the need for a private fund to carry a person who has not paid his subscription for a couple of months. The person who has not paid can still obtain help from the fund to which he should have paid as long as he repays the outstanding amount. There is another amendment that I would like to see proposed at some stage. It relates to the ministerial power to appoint a manager to the private insurance funds if, at any time, the Minister feels he wants to do so. I feel that the Minister has far too much power at the moment without the private funds having the right to appeal to, say, the Supreme Court. I think the Government could look at this area in the near future. It seems completely at variance with the Liberal Party policy but I am sure that members of the Labor Party would like to see that provision left in the legislation. 
Health care costs can cripple any government. They must be under continual scrutiny by any responsible government. There is ample evidence of what happens in countries where this is not done such as Britain, Canada or Switzerland. The level of spending on health care in any country or the amount that any country can afford to spend on health care will always be hotly debated. It is a very open and emotive issue. I hope that gradually the people of Australia come to realise j lust how much of their taxation dollar is being spent on health care. Medibank cost the Commonwealth something like $ 1,400m in the last financial year. It was anticipated that it would cost about $2,000m in this financial year. If it was allowed to increase continually in the way costs tend to increase, that is exponentially, it could have rapidly reached the stage where it would have crippled the country. 
I am saying that that is what would have happened if we had not brought in some amendments. The ruining of the economy by way of the health scheme which has been shown to happen in almost every other country with such a scheme would have played right into the hands of those subversive people who would like to see the country ruined. It was proposed in May of this year that those who used the health services should contribute something towards their cost. In that way people will perhaps begin to understand just how much the health scheme costs and will use it only when necessary. Costs can be kept down only if people realise the true cost of what they are using and with the aid of some financial disincentive. I have said that there is some confusion abroad about the schemes but I believe it is only in respect of details. Most of the people I have spoken to seem to have decided to continue with the health fund to which they have contributed for a long time. 
There is one other adjustment to the scheme which I believe is warranted and that is an added incentive to people not to over-use the system. If we had some kind of no-claim system whereby people would receive $40 back from the Taxation Office, for example, or $40 off next year's premium, we would get 2 effects. If people saved their doctors' bills and found that they did not exceed $40 in doctors fees, they would not claim from the fund or Medibank, and this would help to reduce the multitude of small claims, the processing of which must add up to a great pan of the cost of the operations of the health funds and the entire scheme. 
-I am not talking about over-use of the system. I finished with that subject ages ago. Wake up. Another way of reducing the cost of operating funds and Medibank would be to allow people to claim from whatever organisation they contribute to only, say, four times a year unless they have spent more than $40, for example. They would still save their receipts but the number of claims on the schemes would be reduced. Allowance would have to be made for large bills. In that case they would have to be allowed to claim more often than every 3 months. If we could reduce the number of claims that people are making on the schemes I believe we could reduce the cost of operating our health system. I support the Bills and I thank the Senate. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister able to advise whether it is the practice of some international airlines to take on more fuel than they would safely require for the flight prior to departure from Australia because of our low price for fuel? If so, does that mean that we are subsidising those airlines? Also, are records available to show the amount of fuel that is taken on for each flight? Does the Government have guidelines relating to this matter for the international airlines? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. No doubt the Minister is aware that there is concern about the inability of telephone subscribers to check their telephone accounts with any degree of accuracy because of the lack of information given on the accounts. Does the Minister agree that Telecom Australia has meter readings associated with each telephone service and that the inclusion of these readings on telephone accounts would be of some assistance to subscribers? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What amount of money was sent overseas last year by way of pensions payable to those persons who chose no longer to live in Australia. 
What are the basic requirements that must be satisfied before payments are made to those persons who live overseas. 
3 ) Does the Government intend to alter those provisions. 
-Will the Minister representing the Treasurer confirm that the Australian Taxation Office insists that tax is paid within a certain time or else becomes subject to a punitive tax and that an interest payment is required on any unpaid amount? Can the Minister say whether the Taxation Office was tougher in this regard during the last year than previously? If the answer is yes, will this attitude be continued? Does the Minister agree that it would be only fair that, if the Government charges interest on unpaid tax, it should be required to add interest to any refunds, particularly those initially disallowed for some reason and subsequently allowed? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It follows a question asked earlier by  Senator Manusell  I preface the question by pointing out that no doubt the Minister is aware that domestic airline passenger numbers fell considerably during the year ending 2 weeks ago and that the airlines feel that this period has been one of their worst on record. In fact, the number of passengers during the last 3 months for Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australian Airlines was down by over 100 000. Is the Minister able to give a reason for this drop in passengers? If, as I suspect, it is due to the high cost of air travel, will the Minister ask the Government to instigate an immediate inquiry into ways of checking the fall in passenger numbers which I am told if allowed to continue will lead to the airlines considering yet another fare increase with yet another consequent drop in passengers following that increase, and so on? In other words, will the Minister instigate action that will help stabilise this industry which is so important to Tasmania before flying becomes too expensive for the average traveller if, in fact, it is not already too expensive? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It relates to the cost of printing our present money. In view of the cost of printing $ 1 notes, their short life and their small value- the small value, I suppose, is due to the devaluation of the Australian dollar during the Labor Party reign- will the Minister once again ask the Government to consider minting $1 silver coins? Will the Government also take action to reduce the size of all Australian coins so that they are more correctly related to their present day value? Will the Minister also ask the Government to consider minting collectors' silver $ 1 coins at special times, for example, following elections when they could, for instance, have the Queen's impression on one side and the winning Prime Minister's impression on the other side? 
I put a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I preface it by saying that no doubt he is aware that the U.S.S.  Enterprise  arrived in Hobart last Friday morning to the accompaniment and welcome of literally hundreds of small powered seacraft. Is the Minister aware that the visit of the U.S.S.  Enterprise  has received an enthusiastic and almost unanimous welcome in Hobart? Is this indicative of the type of welcome that would be offered to any United States warship and its crew, particularly in Hobart but also in most other areas of Australia? 
I preface a question which I direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that a great many people nowadays are loth to work overtime due to the high tax rate imposed upon their overtime earnings. Has the Minister, in the interest of assisting incentive and getting people to work a little harder, considered limiting the tax on overtime earnings to a rate equal to that applicable to the top of the employee's income? Has he considered limiting the maximum tax that anyone pays to 50 per cent of income, which I believe is the case in New Zealand and Canada? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that if a telephone subscriber decides to have his telephone barred from subscriber trunk dialling he is also barred from contacting the trunk operators via the usual numbers such as Oil or 018 because Telecom Australia says it is technically not feasible to do otherwise? Is the Minister also aware that the only way a subscriber with STD barring can make a long distance call via the trunk operators is to use 0176, which is the number that is usually reserved for trunk calls from public telephone boxes, and that attempts to make calls through that number from a private telephone are often met with argument from the operaters who are most likely unaware of the difficulty a subscriber has in these cases? Does it not seem at best doubtful that a subscriber can be allowed to dial 0 1 76 and yet it is not technically feasible to dial Oil or 018? Is it not time the Government insisted that Telecom make life easier for those people who decide to have their telephones barred against unwanted STD calls? At the moment it appears that Telecom wants to force people not to have telephones barred, which in the words used by the Minister a little while ago, seems to be a defect that should be cured. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the recent large increases in airport rentals at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and the fact that 2 overseas airlines already have predicted that the rent rises, coupled with increased air navigation charges, will lead to a request for increased air fares. In view of the fact that the number of overseas visitors to Australia as indicated in the recent Australian Tourist Commission report fell last year for the first time, at least since the ATC was established in 1967, will not this rent increase and the consequent airline fare increase actually be detrimental to the country if even fewer visitors come to Australia? Will the Minister have the matter re-examined? 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question relating to the unemployment situation in Tasmania. Is the Minister able to compare unemployment in Tasmania under the Neilson Labor Government with unemployment in those States which have Liberal governments? Does Premier Neilson now preside over Australia 's worst unemployment? Is his trip to Canberra nothing but a panic measure to try to find an issue for an election that he will lose, according to my calculations, by 5 seats? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I preface it by saying that I am well aware of the Minister's own interest in running regularly each morning and no doubt the Minister is aware of my similar interest. I hope that he does not feel that I have a vested interest in asking this question. Is the Minister aware that athletes were training on the Hobart athletic track in March 1976 but that the track, to which the Commonwealth contributed about $150,000, has not yet been opened for regular use? Is the Minister aware that the track was to have been opened on 30 October last and is he able to say when it will be opened? Is it true that the real reason for the present delay in opening the track is that certain officials of the Hobart City Council are adopting a 'go slow' tactic so that they can have a special opening just prior to the Australian championships in March 1977, which will be a full 15 months after the track was due to be completed? Is the Minister also aware that there has been an orchestrated attempt to stop people asking legitimate questions about the progress of the centre and that one Hobart City Council official when questioned said: 'You have waited 10 years. Another 6 months will not matter'? Does the Minister agree with that type of attitude? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It refers to some information on page 82 of the annual report of Telecom Australia which we received recently. It concerns the number of deferred applicatons for telephone services. A deferred application is one in respect of which the service cannot be offered until major extensions of plant are completed. Some of these are not completed for a considerable time. Can the Minister advise what is the amount of money that is held from would-be subscribers on deferred applications for telephone services? If an application is deferred can a subsciber ask for his deposit and advance rental to be returned? If he does, what happens to the priority of such application when the facilities become available to connect the service? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is well aware of the importance to Tasmania of things like minerals, forestry and primary products and that no doubt he is also aware that the value of Tasmanian exports far exceeds the value of imports; at least that was so in the last year for which figures are available to me, that is, 1973-74. I ask: Can the Minister say how Tasmania will benefit from the recent devaluation? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister will remember his reply to a question from me earlier this week concerning the benefit Tasmania will gain from the increased value of its exports due to devaluation. I now ask: Can the Minister say what effect devaluation will have on tourism to and within Australia and will it also benefit Tasmania? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that the report of the Australian National Airlines Commission, which operates as Trans-Australian Airlines, showed a reduction in the number of passengers carried during the last financial year. It also showed that only a marginal profit was made during that year. 
-The profit may be up 6.4 per cent, but it is still only a marginal profit when it is related to turnover. The report showed also that there has been a strong passenger resistance to the increase in air fares that we have experienced over the last few years, particularly during the reign of the Labor Government. Has the Government considered setting up an inquiry into the whole airline industry so that the level of costs levied upon airlines by government charges can be viewed in the context of the benefit that the airline industry is for the whole country? I ask that question because any fall in the number of airline passengers obviously affects the tourist industry and, of course, that industry is most important to my State of Tasmania. 
I did not speak in the second reading debate, but I am pleased to see that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in the other place and the Government have been prepared to listen to the representations that I and others have made about certain aspects of this legislation. I believe that we now have before us a Bill that is better than the one that was foreshadowed in the beginning. There is still one aspect of this Bill that I feel deserves further consideration. The Government may argue against any changes, perhaps because the Government will point out that this is only an interim measure and that a subsequent rewrite of the Broadcasting and Television Act will tidy up all aspects that are not dealt with in this Bill. Perhaps that is so. But this Bill does incorporate some major changes. It does change much of the distribution of powers within broadcasting. I feel that we must assume that this Bill will remain in force for a considerable time. 
The clause with which we are now dealing proposes to give the Secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Department power to plan the future of all broadcasting in Australia. These powers, I feel, are pretty wide. I would like to see any such planning subject to inquiry and report by the proposed Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The Minister has already gone some of the way towards restricting the power of the Secretary of that Department. Paragraph 9 of proposed new section 1 11D provides: 
Nothing in this section empowers the Secretary to make orders or give directions relating to matters of program content. 
This is one of the most significant changes envisaged by the Bill. It is significant as it relates to commercial broadcasting. It transfers fully the power of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the current functions that it exercises under section 16 ( 1 ) of the Act to the Secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. I think there are some objections to this proposal. For instance, the transfer of the planning functions to that Department will move those functions from an independent statutory authority to a government department. That department must become responsive to the direction of its political head. Earlier in the day, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in summing up the second reading debate said that the aim of the legislation was to make broadcasting free from political interference. The clause that we are discussing proposes to move planning from a neutral environment to a politically influenced atmosphere. 
-The clause does not say technical planning. 
-I am sorry; if you can point out to me how technical planning is referred to in proposed new sections 1 11c ( 1) (a) and (b), I will be obliged. If it is just technical planning, perhaps the Minister will say so. 
It would take the honourable senator a tremendous amount of time because what the honourable senator is saying is not correct. It is obvious that the honourable senator has not read the Bill as closely as a senator who has led for the Opposition is this debate and has moved amendments to the Bill should have done. I would like to see words added to this clause which will mean that we will have an inquiry into any plans that are developed by the Postal and Telecommunications Department. If this were done it would mean that the Department and the Minister would be required to reveal to the Broadcasting Tribunal proposed plans. The Minister would be required to withhold action until the Tribunal had held an inquiry at which all parties, the public and commercial broadcasters as well as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, could attend and express their views. He also would have to hold any action until the Tribunal had made a report on the desirability of the plans, and if he did not do so he would be acting in the face of a comprehensive report compiled by that eminent body. 
There is some precedent for this in the area of the protection of Australian industry. Before the Government can grant protection to an Australian industry it must commission an inquiry and a report by the Industries Assistance Commission. Of course, the Government is not bound to follow the recommendations of the IAC, but it rarely departs from them because it knows that the IAC report represents the result of a quite thorough study of the needs of the industry concerned. We should not assume that this Bill is merely an interim measure, and I ask the Minister for Education whether he can envisage when alterations to this legislation will be introduced. I would like to hear his attitude to amending proposed new sub-section 111 C(l)(a), (b)in the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 to provide for wording such as being plans from time to time approved by the Minister after inquiry and report by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal '. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. No doubt the Minister is aware that the detailed design work for many Commonwealth buildings which are to be constructed in Tasmania is done by the Department of Construction in Melbourne. I cite as examples the new Campbell Street mail exchange, the new telephone exchange in Hobart and also a telephone engineering centre which is to be built in Burnie- a total cost of some $8m. Does the Minister agree that the Tasmanian work force would benefit if the design work were done in Tasmania? Will he ask the Minister for Construction to take action so that design work for Tasmanian projects is done in Tasmania whenever that is possible? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister realises that a number of people like to save coins, especially coins minted or prepared at important times or on special occasions. I therefore ask: Has the Government examined the possibility of altering the Acts which relate to the pressing of coins so that a one dollar silver coin can be pressed to commemorate the coming visit of Her Majesty the Queen? If not, will the Minister ask the Treasurer to investigate the feasibility of pressing special one dollar coins as is done in other countries such as Canada and the United States of America? Will the Treasurer also investigate the feasibility of circulating coins with a face value larger than our present 50c coin? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that the airport runway at Wellington, New Zealand, is of comparable length to the one at Hobart, namely about 6000 feet, and that the Christchurch airport has one runway about 10 per cent longer and another about 5 per cent shorter than the one at Hobart. No doubt, also, the Minister realises that a Boeing 707 aircraft could land at Hobart from New Zealand with a full load of passengers but could not take off again with a full load and enough fuel to reach New Zealand. So, Hobart cannot become an international airport for aircraft larger than Boeing 707s or for Boeing 707s unless its runway is extended by 1000 feet to 1500 feet. In view of the statement of the Minister for Transport last week that Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines may be allowed to service overseas routes that Qantas Airways Ltd does not want to cover as it moves to a full Boeing 747 fleet and in view of the shortness of the runway at Hobart Airport, as I have just detailed, will the Minister have investigated the possibility of allowing Ansett and TAA to fly from Hobart to New Zealand airports with Boeing 727 aircraft in the near future so that both people coming from New Zealand to Australia and people travelling the other way may visit Tasmania  en route? Wi  the Minister treat this as a matter of urgency? 
I shall speak briefly to oppose this motion. I think that nearly everything that needs to be said has been said. I ask the Government why there is such a need to suspend standing order 242. Nobody has said why there is an urgency. 
If  Senator Cavanagh  wishes to speak we will give him special permission to speak again in a minute. I always think that it is dangerous to the Parliament, to democracy and to the people when matters are rushed through this place. Let us remember what happened with the Trade Practices Bill. The Senate insisted that there should be a review of the legislation. That took a considerable time, and then the Government accepted more than 100 amendments to its own legislation because it realised that it had made mistakes. That was the Labor Party Government. It made mistakes. It now appears that this Government, of which I am a part, is also starting to make mistakes. It is trying to rush things through this House. 
-I may say that again but I shall say it later in the day. That is an example of how a delay by the Senate can help to ensure that Bills which are passed into law have been properly considered. How much more important is it to take this kind of action when Bills are brought in to change the Constitution and to change radically the nature of this House than it is with something such as the Trade Practices Bill? 
There are alternatives to the Bills which have been brought into the Senate today. Time has not been given, perhaps by design, for alternatives to be considered, worked upon and presented to the Parliament. I for one will not vote for the motion for the suspension of this standing order. I believe that it is wrong, particularly with matters like this, as was amply demonstrated by  Senator Harradine.  I feel that the Government will live to regret the haste with which it is presenting this legislation to this House. 
Briefly, I will be supporting  Senator Harradine  's motion to have these Bills discussed during the Senate's time on the air. When one considers the history of what happened last week in the House of Representatives one can see that not much time was spent on the air in debating these Bills. I think the second reading debate started at 2.15 p.m. on Thursday, following the introduction of the Bills earlier m the week. A cognate debate went until the end of the day, interrupted only by ministerial statements on the Holmes and Bailey Reports and on the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. Notwithstanding those times, a total of 5 hours 55 minutes was spent discussing these Bills while proceedings were being broadcast. I have allowed for the blackout that occurred during one of the divisions relating to these referendum Bills. Again I say that we are rushing these things. If we are going to have them rushed I should like the public to hear as much of the argument as we can possibly let it hear. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Minister indicate to the Senate whether money spent by members of Parliament or members of the public advertising either the Yes case or the No case in the proposed referendums will be regarded by the Commissioner of Taxation as tax deductible? 
I have a little bit to say with regard to this matter because of the effect it will have on my State of Tasmania. A lot has been said so I shall deal with details which I think need to be mentioned. As I said the other night, I have always felt that rushed legislation can be bad legislation. If we look at the history of this Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill we will see that our first knowledge of it was gained early last week when it was mentioned in the  Australian  that it was being likely to be introduced. How that newspaper got to hear of this legislation before honourable senators and honourable members I do not know but that is when I first happened to see mention of it. 
I shall deal with that interjection for just a moment. 
-I am not wasting my time; I am wasting the time of the Senate. If I get interjections I shall keep talking. Money spent on elections by members of Parliament is usually tax deductible. I imagine that money spent on a referendum by members of Parliament is also tax deductible. We have had little time to examine the legislation and the many alternatives that could be considered. I believe that some amendments are to be moved later. I hope that they will succeed. Honourable senators may remember the Trade Practices Bill. As I said the other night, the Australian Labor Party Government rushed that measure in here and said that it had to have the legislation. The Bill was referred to a committee by a Senate which would not be steamrollered. The committee came back with more than 100 amendments to that Bill which the Labor Government was prepared to accept because it realised that that would make for better legislation, and that perhaps the Government's Bill would not be workable. I think that principle applies to one of the referenda Bills with which we will be dealing in the next day or so. But in relation to this Bill, we see a Liberal Government almost ambushing the Parliament and rushing the Bill through on the shallow pretext that it was considered and found to be necessary by the Constitutional Convention which okayed such reforms. 
I believe that the Government now sees dangers in the legislation which is before the chamber. I believe that it sees the errors. But I also believe that the Government is too pigheaded to slow down and allow sensible legislation to be developed. I am very sorry about that. At all times Parliament should have time to properly examine any legislation, and in relation to matters which so severely affect a State, State organisations should also have time to realise the implications of any Bills which are coming before us in the next day or so. We have seen that the Labor Party has been consistent about these Bills because it wants the Senate abolished. 
-The Labor Party has not necessarily been consistently good. It wants the Senate abolished. This evening I heard one Labor Party senator say to another 'This is the first step in the abolition of the Senate'. The other one said: 'About time, too'. If the Labor Party cannot have the Senate abolished it would like to see it weakened. The Liberal Party has not been quite as consistent.  Senator Withers  said on 20 November 1973, at page 1908  of Hansard.   we would not want this Bill brought on too early for debate but ... we would like some time- some weeks before it comes on. 
He was talking about the same type of Bill which had been introduced by the Labor Government. One of the excuses for introducing this Bill is that there have been too many elections. Perhaps so, and too many elections can become a bit tiresome I suppose although I am one who believes that people like elections. I believe that they like to have a say and to pass judgment at different times upon the actions of their members of parliament. 
-Senator McLaren is one of the best reasons I know of for not crossing the floor and voting with the Labor Party as some of my colleagues are doing. He is like a chook which is about to lay an egg. What happens to a chook about to lay an egg? It is in a lot of pain. I believe that had a provision for simultaneous elections been in the Constitution in 1972 we would have had an extra election, not one less. We would have had  Mr Whitlam  attempting to win control of the Senate by having another election early in 1973. Let us look at what a former prominent member of the Liberal Party, the late  Senator Greenwood,  said on 13 March 1974 as recorded at page 270 of  Hansard.  He said: 
I know that there is a tediousness, a tiresomeness and a sense of futility occasionally expressed when people must vote. I know the arguments which are raised. One year there is a House of Representatives election, another year there is a Senate election, and in between there is an election for possibly both Houses of a State Parliament. But if one examines that, why should there not be those elections? If one reflects upon why those elections are held, why ought not the justification to be readily expressed and readily accepted and why ought we not to say that this is the means by which we govern ourselves. 
I would say that an end should be put to the idea that there are too many elections. 
The question is whether there is really a need for this Bill. If its purpose is to arrange simultaneous elections between the House of Representatives and the Senate the answer is no. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  could easily decide that and he could choose, if he needed to, to arrange a Senate election at the same time as the House of Representatives election instead of spending S megabucks or $Sm, as honourable senators would know it, on having the referendum particularly when it must be rememberedthis is something that not many people have mentioned- that the founding fathers referred to the desirability of holding separate elections. If honourable senators refer to the constitutional debates back in the late 1800s they will find that that is true. 

 Senator Greenwood, referring to the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  also said on 13 March 1974: 
The Prime Minister, as I have indicated, has used the argument that there are too many elections as the sole justification for his proposal. He believes that we should bring into line the elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. He postulates as a sound principle that every 3 years there should be a House of Representatives election and that at the same time- at the same election- there should be an election for that half of the Senate for which an election is required at that time. I simply say that if that be the principle and if that be the objective- certainly it has been the general position over the greater part of our history- it is very easy for the Prime Minister to achieve that objective without having to resort to a referendum. 
To my knowledge nothing has changed that situation since March 1974. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Saturday, 19 February, there was a good article written by the Institute of Public Affairs relating to the New South Wales Legislative Council. It details a very similar matter to that which we are now discussing. In view of the time restraints on this debate I seek leave to have this article incorporated in  Hansard. 
It was in the newspaper. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

There is one part of that article .from the  Sydney Morning Herald  of Saturday, 19 February, that I would like to quote to the Senate. It states: 
All who place some store on maintaining individual freedom within the framework of organised society cannot doubt the value of a second Chamber. Frustrating and exasperating though it often is, its value lies primarily in its being an effective brake to the legislative ambitions of the popularly elected Chamber, in New South Wales the Legislative Assembly. 
Its other equally important role is to review, to consider and often to suggest improvements to legislation sometimes sent to the Council hastily by the Assembly in answer to some spectacular election pledge ... or sent to it as a result of the advocacy of some dominant member of the ministry whose pet theme is. 
That kind of thing could very well happen in this Federal Parliament. I shall quote now from the No case in 1974 and I hope that other honourable senators will be quoting from it. The No casein 1974 said: 
This referendum will make the Senate the rubber-stamp of a socialist, centralist Labor Government. 
The Government is being deceitful- the question you will vote on does not explain the real proposed law. 
I do not know what has changed since that time. It also states: 
Canberra asks you to approve a law to alter the Constitution 'so as to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives elections '. 
But the Senate is not an arm of the House of Representatives. Both are established under the Constitution as equal, independent Houses of Parliament with differing roles. The Senate is the only institution in Australia able to be a barrier to the arbitrary misuse of power by a Prime Minister or his cabinet. 
That applies  no  matter what party is in office. Towards the end of that pamphlet it says: 
Remember- it is official Labor Party policy to abolish the Senate. 
The present system is that Senators are elected for a sixyear term. It is a 'staggered' election system with half of the Senate coming up for election every three years. The statutory six-year term is one of the strengths from which a  Senator derives  his independence. 
Without Senate independence the casualty would be democracy. 
I again say that the same situation applies now as applied at that time. It continues: 
The traditional independent powers and voice of the Senate would be lost. The 'checks and balances' provided by the Senate would be destroyed. 
It concludes by saying: 
Don't be deceived: vote No. 
I am not sure who prepared it. What are the real effects of this Bill? I believe this is the first step in removing all power from the Senate and will lead to its eventual abolition. It is stated Labor Party policy and it seems that it could become a fact through legislation that - 
You are not in your right seat, so do not interject. Abolition of the Senate is stated Labor Party policy but it now appears it will become a fact through Liberal Party legislation. 
I say it is the first part of a system of referendums to abolish the Senate. Once the Senate is gone the relationships which stops the House of Representatives growing like Topsy will be gone and there quite likely will be a rapid increase in the number of members in the House of Representatives. That is something that  the very existence of the Senate is presently stopping and something that the people should not forget. I believe that without the Senate the House of Representatives would grow like Topsy and we would have a huge increase in the number of politicians. 
-Senator McLaren asks: What would be wrong with that?' Think of the situation at the moment for a State like Tasmania. In New South Wales there are 10 senators and 45 members of the House of Representatives- a total of 55 federal politicians. Victoria has 10 senators and 34 members of the House of Representatives. And  Senator McLaren  asks: 'What would be wrong with that?' Most of those people come from Melbourne or Sydney. If Tasmania were left with 5 members of the House of Representatives it would be completely swamped by the members from Melbourne and Sydney.  Senator Carrick,  who is now a Government Minister, put the situation well when he spoke in the Senate on 10 June 1975 as recorded at page 2408 of  Hansard.  He said:  the lesser populated States, notably Tasmania, Western Australia, South Australia and Queensland, have an absolutely devested interest in this situation ... If the Senate were abolished . . . Western Australia would be almost unprotected in the other place. New South Wales and Victoria between them could command 79 of the 127 votes in the House of Representatives. Western Australia would be swamped in every way. It gets a rough enough rime now. What would it get if it had no recourse to the Senate? In the Senate the small states have equality with the large States. 
Even  Senator James  McClelland would like to see that situation changed so that the different States have different numbers of senators. With regard to the smaller States  Senator Carrick  said on the same day: 
Let us remind ourselves of what this Bill is about, lt is a Bill which seeks to resubmit to the people of Australia a proposition which they rejected resoundingly 12 months ago. That is quite clear. It is a Bill which seeks to make it compulsory forever afterwards that the House of Representatives and the Senate elections be held on the one day. Any senator coming from one of the small States who ties himself basically to this device is, indeed, in dereliction of his duty to the States . . . The simple situation is that the Australian Constitution was formed on the basis that the less populous States- Tasmania, Western Australia, South Australia in particular, and Queensland- would only come into a Commonwealth if there were a Senate and if the Constitution of that Senate were as provided in the Australian Constitution. Any senator who gets up and seeks to destroy the quality of the Senate in this way - 
He was talking about this type of Bill- ought to be defeated in his own State. 
For the information of honourable senators opposite- I do not know whether their hearing is going- that was stated by  Senator Carrick  in the Senate on 10 June 1975. I shall finish within a moment or two. As honourable senators can see I am suspicious of the reasons for this referendum proposal, particularly when the Labor Party joins with the Liberal Party to support something like this. When most Liberal senators are crossing the floor and joining with the Labor Party to put through something like this it makes me wonder what is really going on. I find myself in accordance with the No case of 1974. This Bill is a proposal to destroy the independence of the Senate. I will oppose it. I will vote against it and when the referendum is put to the people- I am certain that the people of Tasmania will vote against it- I will certainly campaign for the No case. No doubt the Parliament will be sitting quite a deal during the time of the campaign and I shall need to decide at which political action I shall need to spend my time. No doubt if a pair is requested for a week or so it would be granted but if not I shall decide my action then. I make it clear that I oppose this legislation and I shall campaign against it. Tasmania is disadvantaged by this referendum that is put up by this Bill. My action will be to protect my State. I refuse to vote for something that will lead to more power for Canberra and particularly to power that may be used by a socialist Prime Minister. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate able to say how many referendum proposals have been put before the people in Australia since Federation and how many have been accepted? Perhaps he could also advise the Senate when the last referendum proposal was accepted and what it concerned. As there are still 40 minutes to go in question time, if he does not have the information available perhaps his staff could have it available before the end of question time. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question relating to the Hobart airport. Is it a fact that the pilot briefing office at Hobart Airport is now being operated at reduced hours, namely, from 5.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Thursday, Saturday and Sunday and from only 5.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. on the other 4 days of the week and that that arrangement will continue until at least 1 May? Does the Minister realise that aircraft required to submit a flight plan, including both Ansett and TAA aircraft, therefore have to contact Launceston by telephone? Is the Minister able to state the rationale for the reduction in operating hours and whether or not any difficulties have yet been encountered? Is he able to assure the Senate that there is no danger to commercial aircraft resulting from the reduction in hours of operation? Are reductions of a similar nature contemplated at any other capital city airport? 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Science, relates to an article on the front page of the  Australian  today that states that Australia is likely to lose its grip on Antarctic ore reserves. Has the Minister any knowledge of any ores that have been located either on Macquarie Island or on the Antarctic territory? How does the $6.3m that Australia spends on the Antarctic Division relate to money spent by other countries? Finally, is it the policy of the Department to increase research expenditure in the Antarctic? 
-The Senate is dealing with 3 Bills which deal with stabilisation in the apple and pear industry. An amendment has been moved already on behalf of the Australian Labor Party Opposition and one has been foreshadowed by  Senator Wright,  It is obvious to all Tasmanians that apple growers need additional assistance and that they need long term assistance. The assistance should not be provided on a yearly basis. That point was made very well by  Senator Wright  in another of his unanswerable speeches. The honourable senator made an unanswerable speech a couple of weeks ago on another matter and he made one tonight. I believe it is only socially just that we give some assistance to the apple and pear industry. As  Senator Harradine  has just said, it is no solution to the problems of the industry to allow apple growers to go broke, go on the unemployment benefits and join the queues of unemployed people in the cities. 
We heard earlier in the debate from  Senator Walters  that last year the average income of the apple growers in the Huon Valley was about $3,000. If that income is allowed to fall any more in relation to costs, obviously these growers would be better off receiving unemployment benefits. There are few opportunities for alternative employment in Tasmania even if the growers leave their farms. So we must help this industry to survive. Therefore, it will be my pleasure to support  Senator Wright's  foreshadowed amendment. I hope as he does that it will spur the Government to action with regard to this industry. The industry is in extreme distress. Over the years we have seen schemes such as the tree pull scheme. That scheme has never seemed to me to provide a remedy to the problems of the industry. In a world so short of food it seems morally wrong that we should cut down one source of food. All the arguments have been canvassed over and over again. My attitude is that the Government has a responsibility to save this industry. I will support  Senator Wright's  amendment in the hope that it will help towards the end. 
-Go and have an eggnog. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface it by saying that no doubt he is aware that commercial airline flights to and from Tasmania were entirely suspended for a period during the last few days, due to a strike by a section of the transport industry. That suspension isolated and inconvenienced a great number of people who had no other way of getting to and from the mainland, unless they were extremely strong swimmers. Is the Government proposing any action to ensure that certain services to Tasmania, such as airline services, are classed as essential services? Will associated unions be requested or directed to exempt Tasmania from strike action that isolates Tasmania? 
-I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, by saying that no doubt the Minister is well aware that adequate nutrition in the early years of life is important if young people are to obtain maximum physical and mental development. 
-I thought I would get some smart remark from  Senator Grimes.  If I was starved he did not get anything. No doubt the Minister is aware also that milk is an excellent nutritional food. I therefore ask: Is the Minister able to say what research into nutrition is being carried out on a national level? Are any efforts being made by the Federal Government to co-ordinate research into nutrition being undertaken by the various universities and State health departments? Finally, are there any plans at this stage to reintroduce the school milk scheme which was stopped- or should I say stopperedby the Labor Government, so unwisely in my opinion? 
-Is the Minister for Social Security able to say how long a person must be out of work before being able to claim unemployment benefit? How many members of the Transport Workers Union who are at present on strike in Melbourne are receiving unemployment benefit? Will the Minister table a list of those persons receiving such unemployment benefit? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. If the air traffic controllers strike continues for longer than the proposed 12 hours how would people from Tasmania be able to get to the mainland? When will the Government proceed with legislation making it mandatory for unions not to cut off one part of Australia from the rest? Is it true that if the air traffic controllers are on strike, under the present legislation the Royal Australian Air Force aircraft would not be able to use civil airports even in an emergency? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister and as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it true that the Prime Minister will be using VIP jet aircraft extensively during the referendum campaign and that if he follows his predicted schedule this will involve at least 19 hours of flying which, at about $800 an hour, will cost over $ 1 5 ,000 in less than 2 weeks? Are members of the Press to accompany the Prime Minister on any of these nights? If so, will they travel free of charge? Is it also true that if the Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Prime Minister also jet around the country to the same extent in VIP aircraft the cost to the taxpayer will be over $40,000 in just 2 weeks? 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Administrative Services by saying that no doubt the Minister, as well as others, has noticed in the Press quite old photographs of members of Parliament. I ask: Is the Minister aware of any practice that may have developed among members of Parliament of asking the Press to retain and print photographs of themselves that are many years old- photographs, I might add, that are usually reserved for campaign brochures? Could the publishing of old photographs when associated with advertising be regarded as misleading advertising? Because Ministers other than  Senator Guilfoyle  seem to age more rapidly than back benchers, will the Minister examine the possibility of issuing periodically up-to-date photographs of members of Parliament, say every 12 months for back benchers and every 6 months for Ministers, except  Senator Guilfoyle? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that it would be of considerable help to any stranded motorist always to be within reasonable distance of a telephone. No doubt he is also aware that I realise that all the highways cannot possibly have emergency telephones installed along them, but in some areas such as in Tasmania between Hobart and Kingston the cost would be minimal. I ask: In view of the profit made by Telecom Australia could it be requested to examine the installation of emergency telephones along the highway that I have mentioned and the establishment of a committee to develop a policy on the installation of telephones in some areas even though there is no prospect of commercial revenue sufficient to pay for such installations? 
Sector CARRICK-I will bring the question to the attention of my colleague in another place and seek information by way of response. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: Has the Minister been made aware of attempts by certain individuals to bribe some medical officers who examine people for invalid pensions? By way of explanation I add briefly that evidently some relatively young people have advised doctors that if they are granted a pension they will then leave the country and have the pension sent to them out of the country. Will the Minister in due course table a list of the number of invalid pensions granted by different officers over the past 36 months which are now being paid overseas? Will the Minister have the Commonwealth Police investigate the allegation that I have made in my question? Will the Government examine the common sense or otherwise of sending pensions that are paid for by the taxpayers of Australia to people who live overseas where the spending of the pension money cannot possibly benefit this country? 
I ask of the Minister representing the Treasurer a question which does not relate to the Budget. I preface my question by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that in many overseas countries it is possible to direct dial around the world from public telephones. No doubt such a facility would at least be technically feasible at the moment in Australia, but a 3-minute overseas call from Australia might cost $10 or $12 and by the time a person put in the number of 20c pieces to cover the charge the 3 minutes would be just about up. I am not asking as I have on previous occasions for consideration to be given to the minting of a silver one dollar coin although I think it is a good idea. I should like to know whether the Minister will ask the Treasurer to examine the whole range and size of coins that are used in the Australian currency at the moment with particular emphasis on modernising and reducing the size of all the coins and also introducing a sensibly sized coin to the value of either $2 or preferably $3. Such a coin obviously would be extremely useful for a host of purposes apart from long distance telephone calls. 
-I preface my question, which I ask of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, by saying that I am well aware of the problem that Telecom faces from vandalism to public telephones and that attempts are often made to rob public telephones and that these are the main reasons for the size of the new massive STD telephones which are being installed at considerable expense throughout Australia. I ask: Has Telecom considered designing a less bulky and cheaper to build public telephone for use in areas that are relatively safe from vandalism and robbery, as any saving in cost of the production of public telephones would mean that more telephones could be installed? Further, will the Minister ask Telecom to examine and report to the Treasury its need of a coin of a value of $2 or $3 as suggested by me by way of a question yesterday? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security. It follows my question earlier this week relating to overseas payments of pensions. I hasten to add that I am not against the payment of pensions but I am against them being paid outside Australia because I do not think that the expenditure can directly benefit the Australian economy. I ask: How on earth- I have chosen those words carefully- can the Department of Social Security even be sure that a recipient of a pension is still alive if he or she is overseas? If a pension were paid in error or by some direct fraud to somebody living overseas, what facilities would be available to get that money rightly returned to the Australian Government, as I believe would be the requirement if such a case were to occur in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 977: 
1 ) What research into nutrition of (a) young persons and ( b ) other persons is being carried out on a national level. 
What efforts are made to co-ordinate research into nutrition that is carried out by the various universities and State health departments. 
Are there any plans to re-introduce the school milk scheme. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by saying that no doubt the Minister has seen the recent article in the  National Times  in which it is intimated that the Wentworth Hotel in Sydney is considering installing computer equipment so that customers can be given detailed accounts of any telephone calls they make, particularly long distance calls. Evidently details of the numbers dialled and the duration of the calls will be made available by the hotel. No doubt the Minister is also aware that at the moment such information is not available to Telecom subscribers and this leads to subscribers having no recourse but to pay their accounts, whether they consider them to be right or wrong, or have their phones cut off. That situation would be tolerated only because Telecom is a monopoly. I ask the Minister: When will Telecom be installing equipment so that subscribers can be automatically supplied with accounts that list any long distance calls- the number and the duration of each call? This will have obvious advantages for private subscribers, businesses and even State and Federal government departments. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, by saying that perhaps he has heard that the wreck of an aircraft which crashed in 1937 near Waratah in Tasmania- I think it was a Hawker Demon A 18, which was reputedly one of the world's best fighter planes of the 1930s- was lifted out of the bush and taken to Hobart, will be flown or may already have been flown to Melbourne for restoration and is then destined, I believe, for a Royal Australian Air Force museum at Point Cook. As the aircraft was resident in Tasmania for some 40 years and was obviously quite content in Tasmanian bush until disturbed, could the Minister ask the Minister for Defence to have the aircraft, once restored, returned to Tasmania and exhibited either in Hobart Airport or Launceston Airport instead of being isolated at Point Cook? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to a question I asked in the Senate on 27 May this year. I asked whether it would be possible for some emergency telephones to be installed along highways such as the one in Tasmania between Hobart and Kingston. My question really was whether, in view of the profit made by Telecom Australia, it could be requested to examine the installation of emergency telephones along the highway I have mentioned and the establishment of a committee to develop a policy on the installation of telephones in some areas even though there is no prospect of commercial revenue sufficient to pay for such installations. It has been quite a while since that question was asked. I am wondering whether the Minister yet has any information on it for me and, if not, whether he could have it for me by next Monday, which is when I believe the Estimates Committee concerned with the subject will be meeting. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that the Hobart Bridge is almost ready for use again after having been out of use for some 32 months. In fact, when I was flying over it in a light aircraft on Friday at least six cars were using it to travel from west to east and a Channel 6 television crew also used it on that day to travel from east to west. I would expect that the Minister is also aware that the honourable member for Franklin and I, amongst the 100,000-pius people who live in Hobart, want a no-nonsense opening of that bridge as soon as possible. Is the Minister aware that the Minister for Transport in Tasmania has said that the holdup of the opening of the bridge is not caused by the associated roadworks and that the apparent delay is only that due to the required sealing of five lanes wide by about a block in area on the new section of the bridge? I have been told that this would be done in two days if the spare bridge fell down tonight. Is the Minister also aware that the Tasman Bridge Reconstruction Commission has announced that the bridge is to be inspected this coming Friday and that the actual date of opening is to be announced after that inspection? The date presently envisaged is 8 October, which is almost another month away. Will the Minister take up with the Minister for Transport the possibility of sending top level department officers to Hobart so that they can accompany the Restoration Committee, which is a joint State and Federal body, on the inspection of the bridge on Friday to ensure that the bridge is opened as soon as possible and is not the subject of bureaucratic delay, particularly as it is Federal money that has financed the project? If it is not possible to open the bridge fully, will the Minister ensure that at least a couple of lanes are open well before 8 October? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice on 27 May 1977: 
In view of the profit made by Telecom Australia could it be requested to examine the installation of emergency telephones along the highway between Hobart and Kingston and the establishment of a committee to develop a policy on the installation of telephones in some area even though there is no prospect of commercial revenue sufficient to pay for such installations. 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Social Security by saying that the Minister will no doubt remember my questions recently regarding the payment of pensions overseas and the difficulties the Government has in being sure that the recipient is a genuine case, and indeed even still alive. I now ask: As pensions are for the most part additional to other income in Australia and taxable, what taxation if any is taken from pensions that are sent overseas? How can the Government be sure that an overseas recipient is not obtaining other income as well as the pension and therefore should be paying tax and may have an advantage over the pensioner living in Australia, where income additional to a pension is more easily detected? 
-I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport by saying that the Minister no doubt will remember that I have asked him on several occasions questions relating to the upgrading of Hobart Airport so that international flights to New Zealand could travel via Tasmania and to Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines being allowed to fly from Hobart to New Zealand. I now ask: If the Government is not yet prepared to allow scheduled flights through Hobart, will it take up with the New Zealand Government the possibility of allowing charter flights to travel through Tasmania? Further, until such time as regular flights are routed through Tasmania, will the Minister ask the international airlines which travel to New Zealand to introduce a special fare for Tasmanians who go to New Zealand. This would compensate for their need to fly to Melbourne, and then from Melbourne to Tasmania on return, almost backtracking when they travel en route to New Zealand, especially when travelling to some of the southern New Zealand cities? In other words, will the Minister ask the airlines to base their fares more on the distance between the Tasmanian cities and New Zealand destinations rather than on the distance required to be flown due to the fact that Tasmania does not have an international airport? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications which concerns Telecom Australia. I preface the question by stating that no doubt the Minister is well aware of the importance of the electronics industry to any advanced nation such as Australia and that the number of people doing research and development in the electronics industry and the number employed in the industry in total has been declining over the last five years. Has the Minister any knowledge of the reason for Telecom Australia awarding the recent $S00m contract for switching equipment to L. M. Ericsson Pty Ltd of Sweden? How much of the work will be done in Australia? Is it true that Telecom Australia is about to award a contract, if it has not already done so, for a new type of ceramic microphone for telephone hand sets, developed in Australia, to a Japanese firm when the work could be done in Australia? Finally, has the Minister noted any change in the purchasing policy of Telecom Australia since it became an independent statutory authority? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport by saying that no doubt the Minister has seen that soon Air Express is to start a direct Hobart to Sydney and return air freight service. I believe that will start within the next few weeks. In view of the current increase in air passenger numbers, which I think are running at a 9 per cent or 10 per cent increase annually, will the 
Minister ask the airlines to examine the possibility of direct Hobart to Sydney and Sydney to Hobart passenger nights? Will he also ask that the cost of such flights be based upon direct distance and flying time rather than the addition of simply the cost of the Hobart to Melbourne plus the Melbourne to Sydney segments as is presently the case? Many people at the moment not only have to travel through Melbourne Airport when they do not want to, but also are charged extra for doing it. 
-I direct a question to  Senator Withers  as the Minister for Administrative Services and in his capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to an article in Tuesday's Launceston  Examiner  in which it was reported that the National Country Party wants to increase the size of the Senate so that more seats can be allocated to the House of Representatives, remembering that the House of Representatives cannot have more than about twice the number of members in the Senate. Would such action not only seriously increase the cost of running government but also put Tasmania and the other smaller States at a further disadvantage in the House of Representatives as even if the number of members m the House of Representatives were increased by about thirty to some 150 members, Tasmania would not receive any more members? Does the Minister not agree that the result would be therefore that Melbourne and Sydney members of the House of Represenatives would even more control the other House outnumbering Tasmanian's five members by an even greater amount than at present? As the Minister is a member from a smaller State, does he think that one - 
-One of the smaller States. Does he think that that outnumbering would be a good thing? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the domestic air fare situation under which airlines charge an additional amount if a person stays overnight at any place. I ask: Is the Minister aware that the only way in which to make some connections is to stay overnight at an intermediate stopover point? Is the Minister aware that on occasions a person who is on his way from Sydney to Hobart may need to fly from Sydney to Melbourne with Trans-Australia Airlines and then from Melbourne to Hobart with Ansett Airlines of Australia as that is the only way of getting there on time and that that person will be charged an additional amount for doing so? That, added to bus fares, hotel costs and so on, makes an overnight stay, if such is required, most prohibitive to many people. Will the Minister suggest to the Minister for Transport that he ask the airlines and his Department to examine the possibility of the equalisation of air fares so that each segment of a flight bears the same cost irrespective of whether it is part of a longer trip or is completed on any one day? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport recently been to Tasmania and had an opportunity to view the number of traffic lights that have been installed in Hobart during the last couple of years? The number of traffic lights seems to be growing like Topsy. Will the Minister have prepared a list of those traffic lights which were installed as a part of the cost of the Tasman Bridge restoration? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to examine the possibility of supplying finance to sychronise Hobart traffic lights, which I must add seem to me to be much too common and are now starting to hinder traffic flow? Will the Minister further attempt to direct money that is allocated to the Tasmanian Government for use in the transport area to be spent first on synchronising the present traffic lights and removing unnecessary ones before installing any more? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to an article on the front page of today's 

 Mercury in which it is stated that local flights are to be halted. Whilst I understand the concern of pilots for the safety of flights and the need for protection against hijacking, I remind the Minister that Tasmania is totally dependent upon its air links. I therefore ask: Will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to request the pilots associations of Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia to continue flights to Tasmania- in other words, exempt the Tasmanian flights from the proposed 48-hour strike which is anticipated to start at10 p.m. next Tuesday? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the decision announced recently to reduce by some 20 per cent the cost of STD telephone calls of a Sunday and note that this decision is to take effect from January. I cannot recall the exact date, but can recall that the reason given for the reduction was that the telecommunications equipment was not heavily loaded of a Sunday and the reduction was an attempt to have the equipment used on that day. I ask: Firstly, will the Minister advise the Senate whether there are any plans to attempt to get better utilisation of the telecommunications equipment on days of the week other than Sunday, as I am informed that the utilisation is low at night and is particularly low very late at night and early in the morning? Secondly, will the Minister attempt to play Santa Claus by asking Telecom Australia to bring forward the date of the reduction to 18 December? I have noted that Christmas Day happens to fall on a Sunday this year. Perhaps the Minister could play Santa Claus by getting Telecom to reduce the cost of STD calls from 1 8 December so that those people who wish to contact their relatives and friends during the Christmas period can speak for longer periods at the same cost. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It relates to a secret attempt by a left wing organisation to take over the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. I ask: Does the Minister realise that five national left wing union leaders yesterday flew to Hobart to organise that take-over of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council? I am informed that the union leaders were Pat Clancy, George Campbell, Ralph Taylor, Harry Mitchell and George Crawford. Does the Minister feel that such a take-over would be in the best interests of Tasmania? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. The Minister may remember that a few months ago I asked whether he would consider asking his Department to issue up-to-date photos of members of parliament for the Press, and for use in election brochures, because if one makes a quick survey of the daily newspapers one sees that many photos of politicians show that politicians are ageless; indeed, unlike old soldiers they do not even fade away. I therefore ask, in view ofthe recent talk of elections: Will the Minister consider altering the  Electioral  Act so that photos of politicians on election brochures, which may soon fall like confetti from the sky into letter boxes across Australia, would be required to have the year in which the photo was taken printed across the chest, somewhat as a convict has a number across his chest, which I am sure some people would feel was quite appropriate. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I preface the question by saying that no doubt the Minister recognises the importance which returned soldiers place on any fringe benefits which may be associated with any pension that they receive. This question relates to such fringe benefits. Could the cut-off level of fringe benefits be adjusted as pension rates increase, preferably with the cut-off level on a sliding scale and not fixed arbitrarily as at present? Also, could arrangements be made so that war disability pensions are not regarded as income when assessing eligibility for fringe benefits? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface it by saying that from his many trips to Hobart over the last couple of years he will no doubt have recognised the tremendous disruption that the collapse of the Tasman bridge caused to the whole of Hobart. Whilst I am not a pessimist I must anticipate that at some stage that bridge will get knocked down again. 
Honourable senators- Ha, ha! 
-Well, mathematically it will. If honourable senators know anything about mathematics they will know that any bridge that has been up for 10 years and down for three years might get knocked down again. 
All right; the honourable member can wait around and see. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Townley  will ask his question. 
I ask the Minister. As the present bridge was up for 10 years and has been down for three years, does he agree that a second bridge is urgently required for Hobart? Is the Minister able to say what commitment the Federal Government has towards the construction of a second bridge? For how long will the temporary Bailey bridge be left at Hobart? 
I preface a question to the Minister for Science by saying that as summer is approaching a lot of people in Australia will be worried about snake bites. How many people in Australia each year die of snake bites? Can the Minister advise of any research by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation into a new Johnson snake bite antidote? Is it true that the old Johnson snake bite antidote is regarded by many people as something that should be in everybody's home medicine chest? Can the Minister go into great detail about the history of that particular snake bite antidote? Can he advise where Johnson's snake bite antidote can be obtained? What action has been taken by the Minister to have it included in the national health list, if not for everyone, at least for pensioners? Does the Minister subscribe to the theory that its remedial benefits are as remarkable as he has been heard to recount at length? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by saying that no doubt the Minister is well aware that of all the drugs humans consume in one form or another probably the most dangerous is alcohol and that the earlier in life one commences using alcohol the more likely it is that one will end up being an alcoholic. In view of those facts and in view of the recent report which detailed the danger of alcohol within this country, will the Minister ask the Minister for Health to require the percentage of alcohol to be printed on the label of alcoholic drinks sold in this Territory? If possible, will the Commonwealth take action to ask Ministers for Health in all States to agree to such a regulation so that people will have some idea of the strength of alcohol in any alcoholic liquor that they buy? Secondly, due to the danger of the high alcoholic content of beer, will the Minister ask the Treasurer to consider reducing the excise on a low percentage alcohol beer to provide some incentive to produce a beer with a lower percentage alcohol content? 
-At the outset I would like to express to both the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who is at the table, and the Minister in the other place, as well as the departmental officers, my gratitude for all the help they have been to me with regard to this Bill. It is a matter in which I have, of course, a very great interest. We have before us a Bill that is perhaps somewhat better than it may have been when it was first introduced in the Parliament. In the other place the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Jones)  who would, I feel, consider that television and radio were of importance only if they ran on steam, read a report from the  Age  that I had asked, in effect, that the time of suspension under the Act be changed from 7 days to 10. Section 88 (2) states that the suspension of a licence shall be for a specified period not exceeding 7 days. That honourable member was the gentleman who said at one stage that there were more votes in Newcastle than there were in the whole of Tasmania. Also, he was the Minister for Transport who authorised the increase in air fares across Bass Strait, with the result that those fares almost doubled. So Tasmanians know that he has cost them dearly. 
Now he incorrectly assumes that a newspaper report is correct. I do not, as a rule, correct incorrect newspaper statements, nor do I reply usually to accusations that come from people of very limited brain power. Since we are discussing radio and television, I think I could fairly say that the total brain power that would emanate from that person would amount to less than a microwatt; that he would do much better not to broadcast incorrect statements. If he feels that he needs to, let him go ahead; but he can rest assured that I will be counselled chiefly by persons of known talent and that certainly rules him out. In the time before the birth of Christ, General Lucins Paulus said something in Rome that the honourable member for Newcastle could well think about, namely: 
Let him confine his passion for talking to his own precincts and rest assured that we shall pay no attention to any counsels such as shall be framed within our camp. 
I move now to the provisions of the Bill that I would like to discuss. I do not wish to speak for a long time on the Bill. The Bill, as now presented, does a lot for the radio and television industry. As I have said, I believe that it is better now than it was when it was originally formulated. But I feel that there are dangers in it. To my mind there are dangers in the establishment of the Special Broadcasting Service, particularly as it applies to small areas. The Minister for Education said in his second reading speech: 
The Government decided to establish a permanent framework, not only for ethnic broadcasting services, but also for other types of special broadcasting services which may be considered necessary or desirable in the future. This Bill provides for the establishment of the Special Broadcasting Service. It will be a statutory authority comprising a part time  Chairman  and not less than two, or more than six, pan time members. The SBS shall be empowered to provide multilingual broadcasting services and, if authorised by the regulations, to provide multilingual television services; and to provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed. 
In other words, the extension to cover television could be easily done by regulation. If one looks at proposed section 79ZA(d), which appears on page IS of the Bill, one will see that it says that the moneys of the Service shall consist of moneys received by the Service in respect of program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister. That is the provision that  Senator Ryan  said a moment ago the Australian Labor Party was worried about. Again I refer to the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
The SBS will not, however, derive revenue by means of normal commercial advertising. 
I cannot reconcile those two comments. As far as I can see, proposed section  79ZA  (d) says that the moneys of the Service shall consist of moneys received by the Service in respect of program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister. Surely those statements are in conflict. Surely by ministerial decree the SBS could become a commercial broadcasting section of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It may be that it would not happen all at once and it may be that it would not happen under this Government, but I am dealing with this piece of legislation as a piece of legislation and, as I read it, there is nothing whatsoever to stop any Minister from extending the SBS to cover a television service and from allowing it to become a commercial television service, which I would call 'ABC2 Commercial'. 
Let us look at what that would mean in a place like Hobart or Launceston or in some of the small areas throughout this country. They are the ones that I am particularly worried about. I am not worried about Melbourne or Sydney. An SBS television service could be set up in, say, Hobart under some pretext. It could then, by ministerial decree, take sponsorship and become commercial and so gradually drain away and compete with the sponsorship of the television station in Hobart, which incidentally had its licence suspended by the Minister in the previous Government for a very petty reason. As I have said, that kind of scenario could take place in many other areas of Australia. 
Eventually many of the stations which are now profitable and which now provide a true service in the area in which they operate could easily experience competition from the SBS in relation to some special purposes- for instance, sport. Sport is becoming one of the very big things in television in the United States of America. The government of the day could say: 'You can put on international soccer matches if you want to talk about multilingual things'. But the programs do not necessarily have to be in foreign languages. ' Multilingual ' includes English. So we could have further foreign language or English language television stations being set up in areas and they could gradually take sponsorship away from the local stations and send them broke. Many local stations make what appears to be a fair amount of money, but it is not a lot when it is compared with their running costs or their capital investment. We could then have ABC1 and ABC2 Commercial spreading the government word across this nation. 
Provision for this is being brought in by a Liberal Government. I am quite blatantly a supporter of private enterprise and I do not want to see such competition from an ABC2. 
I believe in the ABC system but I do not believe in making it commercial or competitive in these small areas. The point I am trying to make is that if a small amount of the advertising potential in a small area were given to an ABC commercial station, which could be the case, it would be enough to reduce the profitability of the local commercial television station and it would go broke. I am not worried about that situation in the big cities. I think they can handle it themselves. But 1 think it is a crazy thing for this Government to be bringing in this legislation because of the effect it could have in the smaller areas. 
This matter is something at which I would very much like the Government to look. I know we are in the last hours of the Parliament, but to me that is absolutely no excuse whatsoever for bringing in legislation that cannot be amended. For instance, if the Minister were to say to me that it was too late to amend this legislation I would say that we should put off its passage until the next Parliament. The fact that we are sitting tomorrow and have before us Bills that may require amending but cannot be amended because the other House is not sitting I think is completely wrong. I do not think this House should ever sit in Committee, which is when amendments may be moved to clauses of Bills, when the House of Representatives is not available to consider any amendments passed. 
I agree entirely. Anyway, the point I am making is that I feel strongly that the proposed section about which I have just spoken should be dropped for the reasons I have tried to indicate to the Government, that is, that section 79ZA (d), which provides that the moneys of the Service shall consist of moneys received by the Service in respect of program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister should be dropped from this Bill. If the reply of the Minister is that the Service can get money in other ways, let us stop it getting moneys in other ways. Let us make the SBS a non-advertising section of the ABC. It is also no excuse to me for people to say that if we drop this proposed section the SBS could still wangle to get money in other ways. Surely it is our job as supporters of private enterprise to stop that kind of thing happening. 
The other proposed section that I would like to talk about and that I have misgivings about is proposed section 87 (2) on page 22 of the Bill, which reads: 
Subject to this Act, a licence granted by way of renewal continues in force for three years or such lesser period (being not less than 12 months) as is specified in the licence, but the Tribunal shall not specify a period of less than three years unless it is satisfied that the circumstances justify its so doing. 
Before commenting on that I say that I believe that the period of a licence of a television station in this country should be five years. The original licence granted is for five years. I believe that the renewal should be for a period of five years. In no way do I feel that this Tribunal should have the power to threaten to reduce the period of a station's licence. Some honourable senators may say that five years is too long, and I would listen to reason on that. For radio perhaps it would be too long, but with television stations that have to gear up to huge capital investments and are involved with large expenditure in promoting and producing Australian content programs, which take anywhere between 12 months and 15 months to produce, it is crazy to give to a Tribunal that is not responsible to the electorate the power to say that a station can have a licence for 12 months because it is satisfied that the circumstances justify it so doing. What does this proposed section really mean? Let me read again the last part of it:   but the Tribunal shall not specify a period of less than three years unless it is satisfied that the  circumstances  justify its so doing. 
What kind of circumstances? There is nothing in the proposed section to give any guidelines whatsoever to a station that is attempting to do the best it can within the broadcasting and television spectrum. I believe that, first of all, the licence should be for a fixed length of time. I also believe that if the Government insists on giving the Tribunal that power it should add words so that the section would read: 'Subject to this Act, a licence granted by way of renewal continues in force for three years or such lesser period (being not less than 12 months) as is specified in the licence, but the Tribunal shall not specify a period of less than three years unless there have been persistent breaches of specifications, conditions or standards'. 
-No, it is my writing. I can never read my writing. 
-Yes, I put them in the other order. It does not really matter what order they are put in. At least that would give the stations something on which they could operate; some guidelines that would give them an idea of what they were supposed to do. At the moment they are subject to the whim of a tribunal that is not responsible to any electorate. Those are the main points within this legislation that I believe still need alteration. They both worry me quite a lot, and I hope that they will be changed. 
I feel strongly about two sections of the proposed Part that the Committee is now debating. One of the proposed sections that I feel is detrimental to this legislation is proposed section 79ZA (d), and that is one to which I propose to move an amendment in a few moments. I am opposed to this proposed section because it has implications for small areas that are very dangerous in the long term for commercial broadcasting and television. Proposed section 79ZA (d) states:  moneys received by the Service in respect of program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister; 
Reference is also made to moneys from other sources. In the second reading speech the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said that the stations would not be able to carry on normal commercial advertising. I will quote exactly from that speech, when the Minister said: 
The SBS will not, however, derive revenue by means of normal commercial advertising. 
I find that very hard to reconcile with the proposed section that I read a moment ago which states: 
The moneys of the Service shall consist of- 
d ) moneys received by the Service in respect of program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister; 
Perhaps this Minister would not approve of the Special Broadcasting Service becoming a commercial Australian Broadcasting Commission, but some other Minister might. I think it is very unwise for a Liberal government to put that kind of legislation on the statute books. Let me give the Committee a run-down on the kind of situation that could occur in Hobart, for instance, and there are many other areas around the country that could be in a similar situation. On some pretext the Government could set up an SBS for a special purpose. As I said earlier, it might be to run all the sporting programs that are now run by the ABC. Under another Minister, the Government could allow sponsorship of a kind approved by that Minister that would make it a commercial station. If that happened, then it might detract from the amount of money available to run channel 6, which is the channel that the Minister in the Labor Government put off the air for some very petty reason. 
It could well happen that as more services are incorporated under the SBS, this could gradually detract more and lead to a situation where the commercial stations in Hobart could no longer continue viably. I have not heard the Minister say that this is not possible under the Bill. There is absolutely nothing in my interpretation and the advice which I have received that leads me to think that there is any way that that scenario could not happen. We could have a situation where a piece of legislation brought in by this Government- a private enterprise governmentcould result in the private enterprise section of the television industry in Tasmania being put out of business. We could end up with ABC1, which is what I call the present Australian Broadcasting Commission, or ABC2 commercial, which is what I call the new service. If some explanation is given that that kind of thing cannot happen in Hobart and in other small areas around the rest of the nation, then maybe I shall reconsider my action. At the moment I cannot see that that situation cannot happen quite easily. 
I think it is quite clear from the second reading speech that the SBS will not derive revenue by means of normal commercial advertising. This conflicts with clause 1 8 which states: 79ZA The moneys of the Service shall consist of- 
d ) moneys received by the Service in respect of program sponsorship of a kind approved by the Minister. 
Only the approval of the Minister is required to start a commercial Australian Broadcasting Commission. The matter becomes even worse when we consider what the Minister said a few moments ago, that nothing in the future can stop the SBS being incorporated into the major section of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I thought the Minister had said that. I am sorry if I have misinterpreted him. I did not mean to do that. As far as I can see, there is nothing to stop this Parliament from moving at some stage to incorporate the SBS within the ABC. If that happened after the other small commercial television stations around the country had gone broke we would end up with big brother ABC being the only source of television, but maybe through two channels. That would be the only source of television throughout the country, except in the big areas, which could support more than two stations. I feel that another clause deserves some alteration. This is proposed section 87 in clause 18. In order to make clear the kinds of things which can be done I read it out. It states: 
Subject to this Act, a licence granted by way of renewal continues in force for three years or such lesser period (being not less than 12 months) as is specified in the licence but the Tribunal shall not specify a period of less than three years unless it is satisfied that the circumstances justify its so doing. 
What on earth is meant by the words: 'unless it is satisfied that the circumstances justify its so doing"? We are passing a piece of legislation into law yet we are putting in things which it would be very hard for a lawyer to analyse. I read that part again. It states: 
. unless it is satisfied that the circumstances justify its so doing. 
I intend to propose that the words 'it is satisfied that the circumstances justify its so doing' be left out and instead there be inserted: 'there have been persistent breaches of standards, specifications or conditions'. Then we would have: 
Subject to this Act, a licence granted by way of renewal continues in force for three years or such lesser period (being not less than 12 months) as is specified in the licence, but the Tribunal shall not specify a period of less than three years unless there have been persistent breaches of standards, specifications or conditions. 
At least then the licensee would have some idea of the kind of way he should operate the radio station or television station. When one comes to think of it, the fact that a licence is issued for between one year and three years gives a tribunal that does not have responsibility to the electorate a tremendous threatening power that I do not think it should have over the people who run the television or broadcasting station. 
-Then I do not think the matter that it is on the verge of bankruptcy comes into this one way or another. 
-That is irrelevant. The point that is relevant is that many people in this country believe that the length of time for which a licence is issued, particularly in regard to television stations, needs to be- not should be- in the order of five years for two reasons. The first reason is so that the company can adequately finance itself and afford to buy the complex and expensive equipment that is always needed these days in television. The second reason is that unless this length of time is given, the television station cannot produce programs with the Australian content that governments of whatever political persuasion happens to be in power seem to want them to produce. Some of the programs that are now so excellently produced in Australia took 15 months to get rolling and to hit the air waves. If a program fails the cost to the television stations is very high. 
I believe I have covered the two proposed new sections of the BilL I formally move the two amendments relating to clause 18 that I have circulated. I move: 
In proposed section  79ZA  paragraph (d), leave out the paragraph. 
In proposed section 87, sub-section (2), leave out 'it is satisfied that the circumstances justify its so doing', insert there have been persistent breaches of standards, specifications or conditions'. 
When I moved my amendments yesterday the House of Representatives was sitting. I. pointed out the danger, particularly in regard to small areas, of the Special Broadcasting Service becoming a commercial Australian Broadcasting Commission station. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has said that the Government will look at the question. He has also said that it will look at the provision relating to the length of licence and what circumstances would result from the length of licence being reduced from 3 years to 12 months. In the light of that and in the light of the-  (Quorum formed).  Mr Chairman,  it may be of interest to view that just prior to that quorum being called there was one Labor person in the chamber and he has responsibility ibr the carriage of this Bill.  Senator Georges  walked in, as Whip, and called for the quorum. I noticed that while the doors were open two Labor senators from Tasmania approached the doors, saw that a quorum was being formed, and walked away. Now there are still only two Labor people in this chamber. There has been a deliberate attempt, after all the rubbish honourable senators opposite went through a few moments ago, not to do any work today. I do not know where they are, whether they are sitting in the sun or what. But if this is the way they want to run this chamber we will certainly go along with them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 24 August 1977: 
When will Telecom be installing equipment so that subscribers can be automatically supplied with accounts that list any long distance calls- the number and the duration of each call? This will have obvious advantages for private subscribers, businesses and even State and Federal government Departments. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. No doubt the Minister is well aware of the debate which has been going on in the Press about overseas air fares and of the likelihood that some international fares may be reduced. As local fares are much more important to people of the best but most isolated State- that is Tasmania- I ask: What action is being taken by the Government to examine the possibility of reducing the cost of internal air fares which are very high by international standards? I suppose this could be done by the reduction of things like air navigation charges and duty on fuel. Is the Minister able to say whether any internal airlines have recently asked for a reduction in air fares? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question. I refer to the statement that the Government intends to upgrade Brisbane Airport to international standards. Has the Minister any knowledge of any similar proposed upgrading of Hobart Airport to international standards so that Hobart will be able to handle flights to and from New Zealand and incidentally will be much safer for regular traffic? Is the Minister aware that most Tasmanians will not be happy until there is an international airport somewhere in Tasmania? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the small amount of income that is received by the Government as provisional tax from those people who receive as part of their income between $400 and $ 1 ,000 a year which is subject to provisional tax and the length of time that has elapsed since an adjustment of that $400 upper limit on additional income before provisional tax is applied, I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Has the Government looked at the possibility of lifting the amount to a more reasonable figure of, say, $1,000, in the interests of fairness and also simplicity for the taxpayer and the Taxation Office? If not, will the Minister undertake to ask the Treasurer to examine the whole matter of provisional tax? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, by saying that many people in Tasmania have regarded the end of daylight saving as daylight robbery. Is the Minister aware that when Tasmania introduced daylight saving many years ago, ahead of the other States, the period of daylight saving was six months, and that it has now been reduced to about four months, in line with the other States that have daylight saving? Has the Government any plans to extend the time for daylight saving in the Australian Capital Territory during the next summer so that Victoria and Tasmania and other States that I regard as more illuminated than some others will be able to extend their period of daylight saving? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the continuing and increasing profit of Telecom Australia, has the Government considered asking Telecom to reduce the cost of both telephone installations and rental and call rates, if not for all installations at least for private users? Does the Government intend to alter existing legislation so that Telecom's capital works may be financed more from loans rather than as is presently required, as I am advised; that is, that 50 per cent of capital works be financed from profit? 
I direct to the Minister representing the Treasurer a question which relates to provisional tax. I preface it by saying that the Minister is no doubt well aware that the majority of those people who run businesses had to pay their tax for the financial year 1976-77 and provisional tax for the present financial year by 30 March just past. No doubt the Minister is also aware that the provisional tax was calculated at the old rate which is much higher than the rate now paid under the pay-as-you-earn scheme. What is the rationale for requiring business people to pay tax at a higher rate than their employees pay as well as having to pay it in advance? Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to re-examine this matter and make appropriate refunds in line with expected earnings? 
You are a back bencher of great loyalty but little intellect. 
-My question, which I direct to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the pension matter which has been the subject of a fair deal of Press exposure over the last few days. In view of the way in which some of Australia 's deficit has been shown to be due to payment of pensions to people who have allegedly obtained those pensions by dishonest means and in view of the difficulty of deciding whether pensions paid overseas should in fact continue to be paid, and remembering that it is difficult to extract tax from pensions sent overseas if the recipient happens to be working and therefore is obtaining extra money on which in Australia he would have to pay tax, will the Minister and the Government examine the whole matter of reciprocity of pensions? 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Health will no doubt remember that late last year I asked the Minister in the interests of the health of our community to seek consideration by the Treasurer of a differential excise on beer with a low percentage of alcohol. The Minister is also no doubt aware of the reply directed to me yesterday in which the Treasurer said in part: 
I have no fixed views on whether this revenue should be raised by some differential excise relating to the alcohol content of the beer produced. 
As the Treasurer has no fixed views on whether revenue should be raised by a fixed excise or a differential excise for low alcohol beer, will the Minister ask the Minister for Health to make recommendations to the Treasurer about the alcohol percentage in beers which the Department of Health feels should be on the market? Does the Minister feel that the health of our community is more important than the protection of the excise that the Government presently receives from beer sales? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to push button telephones. I preface my question by saying that no doubt the Minister has noted in many of the newspapers throughout Australia the multicoloured advertising inserts for push button telephones and also the black and white display advertisements for the same purpose. Have the sales of push button phones been as rapid as Telecom Australia expected, or has the high extra cost of installation reduced sales below what Telecom expected? Is Telecom considering reducing the charge for touch phones. 
We are discussing the Maritime College Bill 1978. Clause 6 of the Bill states: 
The seat of the College shall be at, or in the vicinity of, Launceston in the State of Tasmania. 
I suppose some people would say that anywhere in Tasmania would be in the vicinity of Launceston. Maybe that is true. I feel that a great deal of credit must go to  Senator Rae  for the way in which he has maintained his efforts to have the College sited at the northern end of the State. Whilst senators are responsible for matters anywhere in their State, I think they can be forgiven for showing perhaps a little more devotion for the area in which they live than for any other area; that is only natural.  Senator Rae  first of all worked to ensure that Tasmania would get the college and then worked to ensure that it would grace the area of the Tamar. 
As one flies into Launceston- I did that four times yesterday- one cannot help but be struck by the size and quality of the airport terminal. I have heard that Launceston actually got the terminal which was designed for Canberra and that Canberra got the terminal which was designed for Launceston. I believe that was due to the work of ex-Senator  Sir Denham  Henty, so the Launceston terminal remains a monument, one could say, although he is still alive, to the time he spent in this place. Now we are to have a maritime college which I think will always remind us of the way  Senator Rae  fights for Tasmania and for his area of that State. Perhaps I should put that in a different way and say that it will always remind us of the way  Senator Rae  fights, firstly for his area, which is Tasmania, and, secondly, for the area in which he lives. 
The College which is being established is to serve a very wide Australian need. We have heard that it is intended to develop standards of education and training which will be acceptable at the international level. We have heard too that the main site of the College will be at Newnham in Launceston, near the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. There is to be a small facility, which is planned for practical seamanship and fisheries training, at Beauty Point, about 45 kilometres north of Launceston. The College is to be fully funded by the Commonwealth. I believe that is being done on the advice of the Advanced Education Council of the Tertiary Education Commission. The College will therefore be responsible and accountable for the expenditure of these funds in accordance with the College Act. 
Quite a while ago the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  announced the appointment of Captain D. M. Waters as Principal of the College. I think we are very lucky to have a man of his calibre in Tasmania to look after this College which, of course, will be a very important college. Prior to taking up the position, Captain Waters was acting as Assistant Secretary in charge of the Marine Crews and Services Branch of the Commonwealth Department of Transport. He has served also as Principal Examiner of Masters and Mates for Australia and as a marine surveyor with that Department. He hold a master of science degree and an extra master certificate of competency. Senior academic positions are currently being advertised both in Australia and outside of Australia. It is intended to attract academic and administrative staff of high calibre to ensure a successful future for the College. 
Whilst the benefit to Australian shipping and fishing has been mentioned already by previous speakers, the benefits to the area in which the College will be established are immense. It is planned eventually to have some 500 full time students when all courses are fully operational and also to have many other students doing short specialised courses in different areas. As I have said, the Bill envisages the Newham area and the area 45 kilometres north of Launceston being the site of the College. Land at Beauty Point, near the mouth of the Tamar, has already been organised. This seems to be quite a suitable area, for the reasons which have been given already. I have noted that the Tasmanian Minister for Education,  Mr Holgate,  has said that we are dragging our feet a little with this enterprise. I think that that shows that he knows little about the difficulties involved in planning and staffing a college such as this. 
The College is presently expected to be completed by the end of 1979. I feel that the staffing of the College should not be rushed. If we are to get the type of staff which we need I should prefer, if anything, the Council to take an extra 6 months or so rather than to choose people quickly and mess it up. No doubt the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education in the north also is looking forward to the establishment of the Maritime College and most probably at present is assisting in its plans and proposed future developments. I ask the Minister to ensure that empire building does not go on and that duplication of courses and equipment is not allowed to happen. I note from the Minister's speech that it is planned that there will be co-operation with not only the TCAE but also the Launceston Technical College. I hope that becomes a fact. 
The College, because of its range of needs in the maritime and fishing industry, will have a very wide range of courses indeed. There will be three-year degree courses and diploma courses full time for deck engineers, radio operators, officer entrants to the shipping industry and trainees for the larger and more sophisticated fishing vessels. There will also be part time programs of a shorter and more specialised nature for serving maritime officers in the shipping and fishing industries, as well as for those people who may require such training in maritime industries, port authorities and associated industries. Generally, I believe the program for each course will be a sandwich-type program in which one does a certain amount of study and then a certain amount of practical work, these being integrated to present graduates suitable for service anywhere in the world and, indeed, graduates who are acceptable anywhere in the world. 
I hope and anticipate that the courses will be vocationally oriented at each level. I believe that they can be expected to cover the academic requirements for certificates of competency; that they will lead to a recognised education qualification; that they will include commercial and managerial training in subjects not covered by certificates of competency; and that they will provide practical experience in the use of modern equipment and instrumentation. Open programs of short specialised courses in areas such as hydrology, hydrographic surveying, tanker safety, survival, ship handling, pollution control, as well as fire fighting- which I think  Senator Harradine  mentioned- fishing technology and instrumentation will be a part of the plans of the College. Also, refresher courses will be developed to enable persons so interested to upgrade their personal qualifications. Finally, in the long term, postgraduate level courses will be offered, but I suppose that is a few years off. 
Honourable senators will understand that it will take time to find the people to run these courses and to establish them in Tasmania, although if they knew what a pleasant place Tasmania is to live in I am sure that it would not take much time. We must remember that these people will have to come from both national and international sources. In order to provide the education and training envisaged, the Interim Council considers that the College will need well equipped laboratories, instruments, simulatorsincluding ship-handling, engine-room and cargo-handling simulators- and training vessels, lifesaving equipment and so on. Because of the difficulty of getting people to run the courses, it is unlikely that any course requiring major specialist equipment such as the simulators that I mentioned will be available before late 1 979. 
I am pleased to see the concept of a maritime college come to fruition. I believe that it will play a major role in stimulating the immediate area around the college seat. It will be at least equivalent to the establishment of a new industry in the north of Australia's best State. Perhaps as the need for more investigation of maritime activities becomes apparent we will see a section of the Institute of Marine Science established near the Maritime College. In that way we will build towards the education centre that  Senator Rae  spoke about a little while ago. In cooperation with the Antarctic Division in Hobart, we could have emanating from Tasmania investigations into such things as krill and icebergs, both of which  Senator Rae  mentioned. I understand that certain difficulties are involved in getting water out of icebergs when they reach the neighbourhood of this continent. Some of the icebergs are up to 250 metres deep, and how the water can be got out of them when they get here I do not know. 
-That could work. A suggestion was made that the melting water would rise to the surface and become available, but that has proved to be incorrect, according to my latest readings. I hope that the suggestion  Senator Rae  has made is more successful. I suppose he is envisaging something like a great big Gladbag. I hope it will work. Certainly as time passes we will find more and more needs for the world to rely upon the sea for food, minerals and chemicals of many kinds. I support the Bill wholeheartedly,  Mr Deputy President.  I mention in closing that the establishment of the College may encourage another industry in the Launceston area. Clause 5 (2) (b) provides that the College shall have a seal. Whether it is going to have a walrus, a porpoise or a whale I do not know, but at least it might be the start of a maritime zoo in Launceston. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of the questions that I have directed recently to the Minister for Social Security in relation to the difficulties in determining whether pensions paid overseas should indeed be paid. I now ask: Is the Minister able to say whether taxpayers are able to claim deductions for dependants who live overseas? Who determines whether those dependents are still alive and whether they are still dependent? Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to examine whether it is fair and sensible to allow such deductions for people resident overseas? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs. It follows the questions I have asked in the past few months relating to the payment of pensions overseas. Is the Minister able to confirm that an ex-serviceman receiving a Service pension and going to live outside Australia loses that pension permanently? How long can an ex-serviceman receiving such a pension be outside Australia before that pension is lost permanently? When this situation is compared with that of those who come here for only a short time so as to be eligible for a pension and who then return home, does it not show discrimination against those who fought for our country in favour of those who came here once the fighting had finished? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Treasurer relates to the collection of sales tax. I would preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that companies which collect sales tax for the Commonwealth must pay that tax by the 21st of the month following the sale of the goods, yet rarely receive the tax from their customers until the last days of that month, even if the customer does not put off paying the amount for yet another month. In other words, the companies must finance and pay such sales tax before they receive it, which can be an embarrassment to some organisations. Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to examine this matter so that a more equitable situation can be determined? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister regularly hears, officially and unofficially, of situations in which people who collect unemployment benefit are also working, usually for cash, so that the Government loses not only from the payment of unemployment benefit but also by way of tax not being paid. In view of the cost of unemployment benefit to the taxpayers of this country, has the Government considered offering a reward to those people who help the Commonwealth Police to counter cases where people are breaking the law? 
Opposition senators- Oh! 
I thought I would get that kind of reaction from honourable senators opposite. They would like these people to break the law. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that Tasmania is divided into three telephone zones, each with its own telephone book. No doubt he is aware also that some telephone calls made in those zones are STD calls. For instance, a telephone call made between Burnie and Smithton is an STD call. That is not always convenient for those people who have to pay for the call or for those who have to use a public telephone. I ask: Will the Minister ask Telecom Australia to examine the possibility of making all telephone calls within each of those zones in the State of Tasmania a local call? Will he also ask Telecom Australia to consider the possibility of having only one telephone book for the entire State? 
-We are discussing the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1978. The background of this Bill has been dealt with fairly thoroughly by previous speakers. Over the last 1 1 years the Commonwealth has spent some $54m in both planting and maintaining softwoods throughout 
Australia. This is an industry which in Tasmania has been of some benefit and importance and is one that I am a little sad and sorry to see reduced to the state into which these agreements will put it. The agreements cut back on the planting of softwoods and do so on a basis that I believe is fairly nebulous. Under the previous program the Commonwealth provided loans to the States which were very helpful to them in their planting of certain areas of softwoods. 
Although some people do not like softwoods, I believe, from the information that I received as a member of the committee that looked into the woodchip industry within Australia, that the planting of these trees does little or no damage to the ground in which they are planted. The information that I received from witnesses before the committee was that subsequently eucalyptus trees could easily be planted in the area where softwoods have been grown, although many people seem to think that permanent damage is done by the softwoods. However, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has concluded that if we continued with private plantings of about 8,000 hectares there would be a need to reduce the State plantings to rectify an oversupply situation. It has looked a long way ahead in order to say this, because it is 25 to 30 years after these trees have been planted before they are of some value. 
I do not believe that the experts crystal ball is as good as the Government's action on this matter. I just think that there is some doubt about our needs for softwood, particularly when we consider the amount that we are presently importing from places such as Canada and New Zealand, and whether in time to come, if we do not continue planting, we will have enough softwoods for our local use. Australia is fairly efficient in raising softwoods, and I just do not know how we can look a long way ahead, particularly when over the last few years the amount of softwood that has been used indoors in furniture and things of that nature has changed considerably. I cannot see why that kind of use could not happen again in the future. 
However, this Bill provides purely for the maintenance of previous plantings. It does not make any allocation for the purchase of land, which was possible under previous legislation. Such purchases were quite useful in enabling some farmers to get off properties that were no longer viable. I believe that we should look carefully at whether or not we should recommend to the Government that plantings be continued under a subsequent Bill. 
-They certainly did. One of the criticisms I seem to remember being made by the Committee inquiring into the woodchip industry was that whilst government bodies were replanting areas from which trees were taken, the private sector was not.  Senator Mulvihill  is quite correct when he says that that was one of the Committee's recommendations. What worries me about this Bill is that it covers not one year but five years, and one of those five years has almost gone. I feel that this whole matter should be examined before the Bill is passed. I doubt whether that will be the situation, but that is the action that I would like the Government to take. 
I suppose it is easy to say that if timber is planted and it is not needed in 25 years, say, when it is anticipated that it might be needed, it is an asset that continues to appreciate in value. The asset does not deteriorate. I have always believed that if an error is going to be made in the supply of something, like timber, which is becoming a more expensive commodity, particularly in times of scarcity, it is wise to err on the side of over-production rather than underproduction. At the moment, my feeling is that to discontinue plantings is short-term thinking. I believe that only $3m or $4m extra a year is needed to continue the plantings and, if it is possible, I would like the Committee to look at this matter before the Bill is passed.  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Rae  have both referred to the unemployment aspect. We should be concerned at this time about providing jobs for people, and the forestry and timber industry provides a high ratio of jobs for the amount of money invested. 
I repeat that we should look closely at the situation. I am worried about the Government's attitude to this Bill. I believe that we need an investigation not of the whole timber industry but of the softwood requirements of the country, and an inquiry by a Senate committee could well be the way to do that. Whether it should be the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources or the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment I do not know. Perhaps it should be the National Resources Committee, although I am not saying that to avoid work because I happen to be a member of both committees. It seems to me that this is something a Senate Committee could well examine. 
I think the Government would be wise, even if this Bill is passed, to examine the matter urgently, and I do not mean in six months time. Even though an agreement in principle was reached eight months ago, the Bill has now become urgent because the money has to be paid by 30 June. I think it would be wise for the Government to examine quickly whether plantings ought to be continued during the coming financial year and, if necessary, it should bring in another Bill to enable that to happen. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and relates to mopeds, which are small motor-assisted bicycles. The motor usually is of a volume of about 50 c.c. and has a top speed of about 50 kilometres per hour or, to assist  Senator Wood  and other honourable senators who do not understand kilometres per hour, about 31% miles per hour. No doubt the Minister realises that at present such machines are classed as motor bikes and are subject to their taxes and registration fees in all States. Will the Minister ask the Minister for the Capital Territory to set an example to the rest of the country by abolishing registration fees for mopeds and reducing the age at which people are allowed to drive them? This would be in the interest of both allowing young people to gain valuable road experience on low-powered machines and fuel conservation. I point out that this is done already in other countries. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I preface it by saying that I hope that the Minister managed to find time several weeks ago to see an Australian Broadcasting Commission presentation,  The Bull's-Eye War,  which showed the chilling and deadly accuracy of portable surfacetosurface and surface-to-air missiles and rockets that are flown along the line of sight to their target. I ask: Is the Minister able to say whether any research and development is being carried out in Australia into this type of missile, which I see as both a stimulus to our electronics industry and imperative to our defence, particularly if we are to defend ourselves against possible invasion by many airborne or seaborne craft? If the Minister is not able to give me an answer now perhaps he will indicate whether it will be possible to give an answer or whether the information I seek is regarded as restricted information. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she happened to see a letter in this morning's  Age  which stated: 
One way of reducing medical costs would be to amend the legislation requiring referral to a specialist from a general practitioner. 
If my teeth need attention I go straight to the one who can fix them. Why can *t I do the same for my eyes or my ears? 
As at first sight that seems a sensible suggestion and would save patients and the Government money, will the Minister ask the Minister for Health to consider allowing people to go direct to specialists when the care of their ears and eyes is involved? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of the offer by Qantas Airways Ltd to give travel assistance to the 1980 Australian Olympic team. Has Qantas considered offering similar facilities to the Commonwealth Games team which is to go to Canada later this year? If not, will the 
Minister ask Qantas to examine the feasibility of such assistance? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It relates to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme to which  Senator Donald  Cameron referred just little while ago. I refer to the announcement that patient contribution for prescriptions is to be lifted from $2 to $2.50 from 1 July. As this will add considerably to the cost of medication for those who need to take several drugs over a long term, will the Minister ask the Minister for Health to look urgently at the number of doses that the Government is prepared to allow with each prescription to those people who have to take their medicine over a long term, so that if the Government does agree to increase the number of doses that are allowed, that higher number will be available from 1 July to coincide with the increase in prescription fees? 
Perhaps I should point out that such action would not benefit chemists. In fact it would reduce their income. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is well aware that the cost of printing $ 1 notes is quite substantial and also that the notes do not last a great deal of time, in any way. No doubt the Minister is well aware also of questions I have asked previously relating to Australian coins and notes. I now ask: Has the Minister seen the plans of the United States to issue a small new $ 1 coin which will be about the size of a 10c coin which, it is said, will save the government considerable money and also be of great use to the public in things like telephones and vending machines? When will the penny drop with the Australian Treasury and the decision be taken to change the size of all Australian silver coins to a smaller, more sensible size, and to issue coins of larger face value, even as large as a $5 coin? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, by saying that the Minister may remember that on a previous occasion I asked whether the Government would request the State governments to require by law that the percentage of alcohol in alcoholic drinks be put on the label. I ask the Minister whether she has any up-to-date knowledge of the present situation in this matter as many people who choose to drink alcoholic drinks would like to know the strength of the drink they are consuming. I realise full well that if the percentage of alcohol were to be put on the label, some might choose a very strong drink instead of a very weak one but I still think there would be an advantage. 
-I also did not speak during the second reading debate because of the timetable which has been set down. I will speak fairly briefly at the Committee stage. I want to say a couple of things about the amendments that have just been moved by  Senator Rae.  The main purpose of this Bill is to counter a number of tax avoidance schemes and also to give effect to some of the policy initiatives of the Government. The Government specifically wants to stop the Curran scheme which the High Court declared legal on 4 November 1974. A little later in 1974, after the High Court decision, the then Treasurer said that the Government was considering amending the income tax law to counteract the High Court decision. In the 1977-78 Budget Speech the then Treasurer, the Right Honourable Phil Lynch, announced the Government's intention to combat a number of tax avoidance schemes which were supposed to be causing a loss to tax revenue. The Curran scheme was not specifically mentioned and the legislation was not introduced in that Budget sitting, as the Treasurer said it would. 
Honourable senators should not think for a minute that I am supporting this type of a scheme. I personally have no association with any of the schemes and nobody I know has any association with them. 
I heard  Senator Walters  say that nobody in Tasmania even knew about the schemes. The fact that this type of a scheme has been allowed to go on for so long without the Government amending the legislation to me  is  nothing less than astonishing. As I have said, in 1974  Mr Crean  said that he was going to fix it, as did  Mr Lynch  almost three years later. Now the Government says, in my opinion, that it is tossing principle to the wind and making the legislation retrospective to the date of that Budget Speech. As  Senator Rae  has said, aspects of the Liiberal Party policy platform clearly state that the Liberal Party is not in favour of retrospectivity on tax matters. In fact, it is very much against it. 
I think that the platform of a political party is like the rules of, say, a football game. You cannot drop some of the rules if they do not suit you and still keep playing the game. The whole of the platform has to be  followed.  That  is  why I am afraid I have to differ quite strongly from my Tasmanian colleague,  Senator Walters,  who spoke earlier in the second reading debate. I believe we should follow that Liberal Party platform. Even further than that, I believe that a basic principle of our democratic system is that tax legislation should not be made retrospective prior to the date that a clearly definitive announcement is made that the law will be changed in a particular way. Such an announcement was not made until the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made an announcement, I think, on 7 April this year. Also I think it is essential that once an announcement is made the Government should enact the legislation relating to that announcement within a short time, otherwise we have government by ministerial statement. The places where that happens are usually called dictatorships. If we expect people to plan their affairs within the law, and those who were using the Curran schemes were planning within the law as declared by the High Court, the two things I have outlined must be done by government. I think it is well to remember that tax legislation retrospectivity is forbidden in the United States and in France. I believe that our Constitution should be altered so that such retrospectivity becomes illegal here. 
I think it would be passed, too. I will have a talk to the honourable senator a little later about that. I believe that retrospectivity is unwise. It is against the Liberal Party platform. I believe that all members of the Executive of the Liberal Party in Tasmania, except one, are against this retrospectivity clause. 
-That is quite true. People down there have a lot of sense. 

 -Certainly, Mr Chairman. I believe that the Liberal Party, with this Bill, is creating a precedent which is unnecessary and which will be dangerous in the hands of future governments. We have already seen the attempt by the Labor Opposition, with the amendment to the second reading motion that was defeated without division, to backdate this legislation to the beginning of the financial year. I think that gives an indication of what the Labor Party is likely to do in the future if ever it forms the government. 
Had the Government acted with sensible speed this  retropectivity  would not have been needed. Those who are now complaining about the loss of revenue during this financial year should surely have been complaining in the same way in the three previous years. I have not yet seen any adequate proof of the amount of loss to revenue that will occur from these schemes. Anybody who says that the loss could be either $500m or $2,000m-a factor of four to one-to me does not know what he is talking about. Surely the Treasurer should be a little more accurate than that. I do not think any real figure has been put on the amount of loss that the Treasury expects from the schemes. These nebulous figures seem to have been plucked out of the air. Anyway, principle should not be thrown to the wind just because of the amount of money involved. I am worried about the precedent. We could have a government which is short of funds for instance at the end of a financial year making a capital gains tax retrospective for five years. 

 - Senator Messner can say 'Oh', but this is the precedent we are creating. This is the precedent that the Liberal Party Government is creating. We could have income tax rates altered at the end of a financial year and made retrospective to the beginning of the year. 

It is possible to relate this matter to a football game which has been won by one team narrowly, and then somebody saying to that team: 'We are sorry, you didn't win. You had to get twice as many goals. We are altering the rules from back at the beginning of the season. You are losing all your points '. 
It is not. Even that is just as bad. It is the same as bringing in a Bill providing an investment allowance and saying to people that everything they bought before last Christmas is subject to an investment allowance. How crazy it would be for us to bring in retrospectivity in this type of way. I believe we are establishing an ill-conceived precedent. It is something that I do not like and that future governments will be able to use to create a whirlwind to upset the taxpayers. I believe it is the Government's clear responsibility promptly to amend the law if it is producing undesirable effects. If the Government chooses not to do that it is failing in its responsibility and should not be allowed to use retrospectivity to shut the door after the horse has bolted. No one will feel quite as safe once this law is passed and once this principle is established. Taxpayers will never know what is going to happen to them next. As I said earlier, neither I nor anyone else that I know has taken advantage of the schemes that this legislation is primarily designed to cover. I support the amendments. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. No doubt she will remember that the other day I asked about the number of doses that might be available after 1 July with prescriptions for people who need to take long term medication. The idea was to lift the burden a little from those who might not be able, because of illness, to earn a lot. Is the Minister aware that if a family with only two children needed to get three prescriptions for each of those children, which is not an uncommon occurrence, that family would be up for $15. Will the Minister join with the Minister for Health in considering the effect that this type of situation will have on some families and in investigating the feasibility of reducing to $1 the charge for a prescription for a child? 
I first entered this Senate about seven years ago. When I was new to the Senate I often felt that I was a learner, a very green person- I have not changed to the same colour as  Senator Bonner  but maybe I am not ripe yet. I owe the enjoyment that I have had in this chamber to the assistance that I received from several of the senators who tonight grace this place for the last time. When  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was in the Chair I seemed always to be able to choose the time when I could ask a question and he would see me. 
It is a wonder you did not see that, Feathers. It would have tickled you pink. 
Ian Wood I have always listened to with a lot of respect. He is a gentleman whom we are going to miss a lot around this place. We may not always have agreed with the things he has said, but he has been somebody who has always given a down-to-earth view and, in my opinion, nearly always that has been the view that the public has been expressing. Ian, I thank you for what you did for me and wish you well. 
Tom Drake-Brockman was, I think, Minister for Air when I came to the Parliament. He was a tremendous help to me and many times set me on the right track. 
Reg Wright, when I was an Independent, did not have a lot to do with me, but when I became a member of the party I was on a committee with him once in Queenstown. That is something that those honourable senators who have not been on a committee with  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright would not know about: lt is a pretty frightening experience. 
Now that these gentlemen are retiring, I hope that they will always be able to look back and see this Senate doing the kinds of things that they would want it to do. Gentlemen, you have all made my political life a lot fuller and I thank you for your friendship and advice. To Bill Brown, with whom also I was on a committee I say thank you for the example you gave me early in my political life. You were always a gentleman to both the members of the committee and the witnessesI do not know who were treated the best, but you were someone that I could look up to and respect, and I thank you for it. 
Don Devitt, who is not here tonight, I came to know fairly well when we went on the  Thala Dan  to Macquarie Island last year. I wish him well in his retirement, as I do all the others who are retiring, whether they have been here for a short or long time. I hope that we will see some of them back again. 
Before I conclude, I would like to say that early yesterday a copy of a certain document came into my possession. It was not leaked to me: It was distributed to some of those who had assembled, as is their wont on the night before Parliament goes into recess, in the bowels of Parliament House. The background of this document is that some 9 or 10 years ago the members of a Senate committee- I believe the off-shore oil committee- which included such members as the late  Senator Cant,  the late  Senator Greenwood  and Senators Gair, O 'Byrne, Young, Keeffe, Laucke and Webster, who were ably assisted on the committee by Keith Bradshaw, Guy Smith and occasionally Bert Nicholls, started a choir. This choir has become quite famous around Parliament House. It nearly always seems to sing at these end-of-session Records Office celebrations. One night when it was singing a few songs, both in and out of harmony, during a brief period of silence a well-known voice echoed through the room. I think the words were: 'Sing you senators, sing'. From that day forward,  Sir Reginald  Wright has become the official conductor of that choir, and I am sure all who have heard it will agree it is unmatched in Parliament House. Last night I had the pleasure of hearing the choir give its last performance under the baton of  Sir Reg.  Just prior to their singing- and I must mention that they now have new members, such as Tom Wharton and Pete Murdoch as well as a few other ring-ins- the Reg Wright Records Office Choir Book was presented to  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright in memory of the services that he had rendered to the choir. It was signed by many people, and was very well done. I have a copy of that document and, for posterity, would seek leave to lay on the table The Reg Wright Records Office Choir Book. Also, I would ask that the words on the cover and on the second white page, which begin with: 'You must have been a beautiful baby', and on the final page, entitled 'Now is the hour', be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

THE REG WRIGHT RECORDS OFFICE CHOIR BOOK. 
You Must Have Been A Beautiful Baby 
You must have been a beautiful baby 
You must have been a wonderful child 
When you were only startin' 
To go to kindergarten 
I bet you drove the little boys wild 
And when it came to winning blue ribbons 
You must of shown the other kids how 
I can see the judges' eyes as they handed 
You the prize 
I bet you made the cutest bow 
Oh! You must have been a beautiful baby 
Cause baby look at you now. 
Now Is The Hour 
Now is the hour, 
When we must say good-bye, 
Soon you'll be sailing 
Far across the sea, 
While you 're away, 
O then remember me, 
When you return, 
You'll find me waiting here. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. No doubt the Minister is aware of recently reported incidents of aircraft approaching close together while in the air- something that I am sure all of us would have preferred to see reserved for when aircraft were on the ground. Is the Minister able to tell the Senate whether any of these incidents were due to the failure of ground navigation equipment such as very high frequency omni-directional ranges, known as VORs, or non-directional beacons- equipment which is essential to accurate air navigation? Will the Minister confirm that on Mondays pilots are beginning to call VORs 'very often wrongs' because so many of these important aids on important routes are unserviceable on Mondays? Is this unserviceability due to the Department of Transport not being prepared to pay overtime? Is it true that any VOR, or for that matter any navigation equipment that becomes unserviceable after knock-off on Friday, remains unserviceable during the weekend and during Monday until it can be repaired? Will the Minister assure, the Senate that this procedure is in line with what should be done to keep Australia's air safety record as high as we all would desire? If it is not, will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to rectify the situation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
Are officers in the Women's Royal Australian Naval Service paid only about 80 per cent of the pay of equivalent officers in the Royal Australian Navy, whereas Petty Officers and other ranks in the Women's Royal Australian Naval Service receive 98 per cent of the pay of male petty officers and sailors. 
When will equal pay be extended to Women's Royal Australian Naval Service officers. 
When will the ranks of Women's Royal Australian Naval Service Officers (currently Third Officer, Second Officer, First Officer and Chief Officer) be changed to the male equivalent, namely Sub-Lieutenant, Lieutenant, Lieutenant-Commander and Commander. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that the present system of calculating air fares involving a flag fall of some $13 in each fare causes air fares on short hauls, such as between Hobart and Launceston or perhaps between Devonport or Wynyard and Melbourne, to be relatively high and to a lot of people prohibitively high. Secondly, is the Minister aware that this practice makes it impossible, without paying $ 13 extra, to change air lines at an intermediate point, for instance at Melbourne, when flying between Hobart and Sydney? Thirdly, is the Minister aware that it adds considerably to the cost for those who need to stay overnight at some intermediate point? I also ask whether the Minister will table in the Senate the method of calculating air fares in Australia? Will he ask the Minister for Transport to request the airlines to reconsider basing air fares purely on distance of flight rather than including a flag fall? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. No doubt the Minister is aware that in some countries a submission of personal income tax returns is required only once every two years, the income tax in the second year is based upon the tax for the first year and an adjustment made if necessary when the next return is submitted. No doubt the Minister is well aware that Switzerland is one such country and a country whose economy and inflation rate we could well attempt to copy. Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to consider adopting a similar system in Australia with a view to the obvious economies it would bring within the Taxation Office? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that many people in Australia are forced for one reason or another to live in caravans. No doubt he will agree that, whilst such accommodation is inexpensive, long term accommodation in this manner is not something the Government should encourage. Is the Minister able to say how many people are permanently forced or choose to live in caravans in Australia at present? What is the present trend in regard to this style of accommodation? What action is the Government taking to solve this problem? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to invalid pensions as they will apply from November of this year. Is it true that where a individual earns more than $20 a week in addition to the $53.20 pension the means test will apply with the result of a loss of 50 cents for each dollar income earned above $20? As in future the invalid pension will be taxable, will the tax on incomes above $72 be about 33 cents in the dollar? Does this mean that an invalid pensioner who might be able to earn a few dollars over $20 in addition to the pension will lose 50 cents due to the means test and, of the remaining 50 cents, 16.5 cents in tax, or a total to the Government of 66.5 cents? Is the Minister aware that this is a higher marginal tax rate than that paid by even the highest earners in our community? Will the 
Minister discuss the matter once more with the Treasurer? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I notice that he was in Hobart on Friday. No doubt he was made aware then that in Hobart there is a Bailey bridge which was installed following the partial destruction of the Tasman Bridge. Is the Minister able to confirm that that Bailey bridge will remain in place until the second Derwent bridge is completed? If he is not able to confirm or to deny whether that is true, will he ask the Minister for Transport to make a statement about the matter? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Treasurer relates to the purchase of motor vehicles by people with some incapacity. Is the Minister able to say what conditions must be satisfied before a person suffering from a disabling disease such as multiple sclerosis is able to purchase a motor car without having to pay sales tax? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, relates to the decision of the Minister for Transport to take a hard line on the air fare increase of 7.5 per cent requested by TransAustralia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia. This is something that probably affects the people of Tasmania and Western Australia more than the people of any other State. 
Will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to investigate the relationship between increases in domestic air fares and the increase in the number of Australians travelling overseas at the same time as he is deciding whether the proposed air fare is reasonable? Will the Minister ask that the investigation examine especially whether in fact every increase in domestic air fares which is being caused directly by the Government's policy of increasing the price of fuel and increasing landing and air navigation charges results in many more people going overseas with their pockets filled with money that might otherwise be spent in Australia if tourists chose to see Australia first? In other words, will the Minister instigate an inquiry to see whether in fact the present policy of increasing costs to the airlines is actually causing a loss of money to this country instead of a gain to the Treasury? Finally, will the Minister table in the Senate details of the method of calculating domestic air fares? This is a matter about which I asked his predecessor recently. 
Before I talk about a local Hobart matter I would like to say that I must agree with some of the points made by the three previous speakers. I do not think that the Government was aware of the implications of means testing family allowances when it included the provision in the Budget. Unless further action is taken by the Government, action may have to be taken when the matter comes before the Senate. I will make my position clear when that happens. The other matter I will touch on before I come to a very parochial matter is the taxing of pensions which are also means tested. On Tuesday I gave the example of an invalid pensioner who receives, I think, $53.20 a week from a pension. If he then earns more than $20 a week he loses 50c of any $1 above $20 through a means test. But the pension is also taxable. Taxation comes in when the total income is above $72 a week. 
If an invalid pensioner works in, say, a sheltered workshop and earns $30 a week above his pension, of the $10 above the amount of $20 which is allowed before the means test applies $5 would effectively be taken back by the Government through the means test. The remaining $5 would attract a tax rate of about 33 per cent. This would mean that out of that $ 10 the invalid pensioner would give back to the Government $6.65- the figure may be a cent or two either way. That means effectively that the tax on that $10 is at a higher rate than that paid by the highest income earners in this country. 
I said this the other day. There are other pensions, apart from the invalid pension, at which I intend to look thoroughly. When I asked about invalid pensioners on 19 September, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  as reported on page 679 of  Hansard,  said: 
We understand that about 90 per cent of invalid pensioners would not earn beyond the $20 limit. It must be realised that an invalid pension is paid to a person who is 85 per cent incapacitated. Taking these factors into account and the announcement by the Treasurer on the taxing of invalid pensions in the future, it will be seen that a relatively small number of people will be affected. 
I wonder how much money the Government will receive by taxing invalid pensions. 
I agree entirely. It does not matter whether it is a small number or a large number. It is the principle that the Senate has to consider when the matter comes before it. I turn now to the parochial problem to which I have referred. I hope that honourable senators who live in other areas will forgive me. 
-The honourable senator does not have to listen. He can leave whenever he likes. I refer to an area in which the 
Federal Department of Transport is wasting a lot of money through the Tasmanian Government. It concerns traffic lights in Hobart. 
-Is the honourable senator leaving already? I think it would be fair to say that there are more traffic lights in Hobart per head of population than in any other area, not only in Australia but also in the world. I think that  Senator Harradine  would probably agree. The department in charge of traffic lights in Hobart seemed to go slightly mad at about the time when the Hobart bridge fell. I suppose that was because the Federal Government was paying for all the lights that were put up. I for one hoped that it would be just a period of temporary madness and would pass away once the bridge was up again. I am sure that most of us also hoped that many of the lights that were put up would also pass away at that time, but that has not been the case. Not only have the lights that were put up in Hobart to regulate the traffic flow, which admittedly was fairly difficult at certain times after the bridge fell down, been left in place but also since the bridge has been back up many other sets of traffic lights have been installed. The number is having the effect of annoying people and I think in many cases causing them to drive in such a way as to break the law. I have known cases of people actually driving against red lights. Certainly pedestrians no longer take any notice of the ' Don 't walk ' signs. 
So not only are the lights being installed at a rate that seems to be just to keep those associated with their installation employed but also all sorts of other pieces of madness can be seen in Hobart. For instance, I can think of two places where Stop' signs have been installed against the direction of the majority of the traffic flow. This was done on the pretext of the planners saying: 'We do not want cars to drive along there, so we will put in 'Stop' signs and hope that motorists will go through the city and clog it up even further'. Anyway, it is not working. Some people are stopping at the 'Stop' sign and continuing in the direction in which they are used to going. Look at the one way streets in Hobart. I ask where else in the world one would find two adjacent one-way streets running in the same direction? One certainly can in Hobart. 
-The honourable senator may have some crazy people there too, but to me common sense says that if one one-way street goes, for instance, north the ones parallel to it and on either side of it should run south, but that is not so in Hobart. It is quite difficult for people, pensioners for instance, who are trying to take a bus or taxi to see their doctor in Macquarie Street to get there. I will not go into the intricacies of how difficult it is, but I can assure honourable senators that it adds to their expense. Taxi drivers have told me that many of their customers reckon that they are being given the runaround in Hobart. I can assure honourable senators that customers of taxis are not the only ones being given the runaround. 
If the honourable senator woke up and stayed awake he might be able to understand. 
I can hear that the honourable senator is awake now, but he might not have been a moment ago if he has to ask what I am talking about. We have three roundabouts in Hobart and one has 32 sets of traffic lights on it. I heard an English expert commenting on that, and he politely said that London has two roundabouts with lights. That is two out of some hundreds in that city. Yet we in Hobart in a small city have the stupidity of a roundabout that sometimes takes about two minutes to get around. I feel it is time the Federal Government stopped giving money to the Tasmanian Government if it is to be spent in this way. There is a need for an accurate survey of the whole traffic pattern in Hobart and probably all other major towns in Tasmania too. I believe that one is about to take place. 
It is time that many of the one-way streets were altered to go the correct way, if indeed so many of them need to be one way- and I doubt that they do. Certainly the time has come to reduce the number of controlled places and intersections in the city of Hobart. Then we need to co-ordinate those traffic lights that are left in place. As a resident of Hobart, I can tell the Senate that it is infuriating to drive from one set of traffic lights to the next, particularly when for some perverse reason they seem to be red more often than green. I am quite certain that at night there is no need to have many of the lights operating at all. I do not see why we could not adopt what is done in many other cities of the world and let them become yellow flashing lights during the night. 
Gradually some changes can be seen coming upon the traffic scene in Hoban. The major effect since the Tasman Bridge went back up is that all traffic seems to have slowed down with a consequent cost to the people of Hobart in petrol. One change could be allowed immediately. We could alter the laws to allow left hand turns after stopping at a red light if the way is clear of both cars and pedestrians. This system is used in many cities of the world. 
I am talking about any street that has a set of traffic lights. 
-Is the honourable senator waiting to speak? 
-A lot of Federal money goes into the transport system in this country, and I would have thought that the honourable senator would have been interested in anything that could save money. 
-Yes, of course he should. The actual cost of the lights is considerable, and I think that no more should be spent until many of them are ripped out and the rest of them synchronised. I think it is time that the second bridge across the Derwent was proceeded with. We do not know when the Tasman Bridge will fall down again or get knocked down again. If it happens to fall down before the second bridge is built anybody in the Federal Government would have a lot of explaining to do. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I preface it by saying that I have noted advertisements in certain mainland newspapers today for people to invest in a Telecom loan, for which purpose STD calls to Telecom are free of charge. As it appears technically possible, and as many people live in areas which are away from Government departments, will the Minister request the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to examine the feasibility of allowing persons who live in remote areas to telephone Government departments for the charge of a local call? Does the Minister agree that such a facility may help a great many people? 
My question also is directed to  Senator Chaney  but in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the collision between a 727 aircraft and a small Cessna near San Diego airport during the last couple of days, will the Minister table in the Senate a list of incidents during the last five years involving Australian aircraft that could be classed as near misses, if indeed there have been any? Is the Minister able to assure the Senate that a collision of that sort is not possible within Australia? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been drawn to an advertisement on Tasmanian commercial television seeking subscriptions for the new Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Commission loan? I ask whether it is a fact that the advertisement shows  Mr Lowe,  the Labor Premier, seated at his desk saying:   . . and the 1 978 HEC loan offers you an opportunity to invest in Tasmania's future. And you can invest in the secure knowledge that the HEC loan is guaranteed by the Government of Tasmania. 
Also I ask whether it is a fact that the announcer following  Mr Lowe  states: 
With inflation currently at 7.9 per cent and predicted to fall below 6 per cent within the coming 12 months, a long term investment such as the HEC loan offering about 9.4 per cent is worth snapping up. 
In view of the confidence of the Tasmanian Premier in the likelihood of a future fall in the rate of inflation, could the Minister inform the Senate whether a letter of thanks has been sent by the Prime Minister to  Mr Lowe? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that at times many people feel that their telephone accounts are too high. In many cases it appears that they have no effective or satisfactory recourse against the autocratic and, I feel, inefficient accounting system presently used by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. Whilst I agree that some cases of complaint are explainable, in cases when customers know that they are being robbed by Telecom what action can they take to avoid having to pay the account or having their telephone cut off? Secondly, when will Telecom install a subscriber trunk dialling accounting system that details all STD calls on the account so that Telecom cannot blame STD calls when a valid query is made as has been put to me in Tasmania recently? Finally, does he agree that the present accounting system used by Telecom is not healthy and is biased against the customer? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Was the estimated cost of operations of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal $2,540,000 for 1 977-78. 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal circulated (a) a proposed schedule of dates for licence renewal hearings; and (b) what will be the cost in time and money to stations involved in such hearings. 
What are the reasons for the decision that these hearings will take place, and who made this decision. 
When are public inquiries held pursuant to the Broadcasting Television Act 1 942 not mandatory; and if such a decision has been made by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal: how does this accord with the provisions of sub-section 86 ( 8 ) of the Act. 
What is going to be the modus operandi for these public inquiries including (a) powers of Chairman; (b) legal representation; (c) the right of cross-examination; and (d) the right of reply. 
How does the Tribunal propose to obtain the views of the 'silent majority' and will all persons appearing at public inquiries be asked to state the number of people they represent in the communities serviced by the particular stations. 
-I wish to discuss several aspects of the taxation Bills which are currently before the Senate. I say at the outset that I am disappointed at the speed with which these Bills have been brought into the Senate and into the other place and at the speed with which they are being dealt with. It is such that if any amendments were attempted to be formulated, limited opportunity would be available to those who formulated the amendments to get them ready in time. Of course, at other times, governments have come into the Senate and said that Bills were so important that they had to be through in a certain time. Sometimes on those occasions the Senate has held up Bills for one reason or another and the world still seems to go on without much disturbance. That makes me wonder just what is the real reason for the rush which is being applied to these Bills and why they were not presented to both Houses much earlier than they have been. In relation to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech, which is found on page 1 1 64 of  Hansard,  stated: 
Whilst the Government's decision on annual leave will have altered the expectations of some who had accumulated annual leave entitlements at Budget time, it is incorrect to claim- as some have- that the Budget decision is a retrospective change to the law. 
Of course, the Minister was talking about the Government's intention to tax lump sum payments for unused annual leave at the standard rate. This year the standard rate is 33.5 per cent. The Minister claims that that is not to be retrospective. Further on in the Minister's speech, on the same page of  Hansard,  he stated:   the Treasurer has acknowledged it will result in persons who had accumulated annual leave prior to the Budget paying a higher rate of tax when the lump sum is received than they might have anticipated at the time the accumulation took place. 
Let us examine a case and see whether the Minister is correct in saying that this is not retrospective or whether he is simply using words to fog the situation which is before us. Let us take the case of two people who started in employment with a firm on the same day several years ago. On the day prior to the Budget one of those people retires with some sizable payment for unused annual leave. Of course, he had to include only five per cent of that lump sum in his income for it to become taxable income. Both persons may have had several weeks or months of holidays saved up over several years. They may not have taken their holidays for many different reasons. For instance, it may not have been their decision. They may have been asked not to take their holidays. 
So one chap retires just before the Budget is presented and the day after the presentation of the Budget the other chap decides to retire. Not only is he taxed at the standard rate which was 32 per cent but also he is slugged an additional 1.5 per cent. This provision was introduced this year and I wish to say something about that in a few minutes. I contend the second person legally and rightly expected that he would have certain money in the bank because he had decided or had been asked, or whatever, not to take his holidays over the past years. The Government, with a stroke of the pen, says that instead of taking somewhat less than five per cent of that accumulated income tax it is taking some 33.5 per cent. That person may have a very special reason for accumulating that money. He may have had some special purpose in mind. Maybe I am treating the situtation too simply but it seems to me that this is retrospective. It also seems very much that it is splitting hairs to say otherwise. With regard to this matter of holiday pay and taxation, I feel that the Government should have done as it did in relation to long service leave. It should have made any leave payments from Budget day of this year onwards the only payments subject to this new tax. 
If the Government does things retrospectively like this, how can people plan their affairs? How can people have confidence if we, here in the ivory towers of Canberra, act in this way? It may well be that the person concerned cannot even work for a longer period and earn extra money to make up for the money he will lose because of this action on the part of the Government. I have heard of one case in which a person was asked to stay on for an extra month and it cost him, effectively, $3,000. Also, the people involved might be at an age at which they will not have time to make up for the loss that the Treasury will impose upon them under the new rules. Let it be clearly understood that I am not against the philosophy of taxing holiday pay, but I am very much against the action of the Government in this case, affecting as it does people's savings, money that they have felt was as good as money in the bank and have accumulated in a way which until now was quite legal. 
I wish to refer to another anomaly which I do not think has been mentioned yet. If a person who retired after 30 June next, when the 32 per cent base rate of tax will have been restored, were to receive a lump sum payment of, say, $1,000 for holiday pay, and were to do no other work, he would pay about $300 in taxation. 
No, on holiday pay. He would be taxed at a rate of 32 per cent which, on $1,000, would amount to $320. Under ordinary circumstances, if that person did not earn any other money during the rest of the financial year, at the end of the year he would put in an income tax return and would receive that money back. But I am advised that under this Bill, even if he did not earn anything else and received merely the holiday pay, the tax paid would not be refunded; the holiday pay would be dealt with separately and would be taxed at a rate of 32 per cent. That seems to be an anomaly that has been overlooked. In fact, it was brought to my attention only in discussions with people earlier today. 
The subject of retrospectivity was dealt with in an article which appeared in the  Australian  today. Even though the article did not relate specifically to the matters with which I am dealing, it might be worth quoting. It reads: 
Equally chilling ... is the Liberals' new policy of legislating retrospectively. Whatever you 're doing now, stop. It may become illegal if the Government lightly decides to pass a backdated law against it. 
Virtually unchallenged by Labor (which may lipsmackingly be looking forward to using the precedent when it's in power) the Government has naively backdated several bills related to tax. 
The first retrospectively outlawed (to July 1, 1977) that virtuoso exercise in accountant's acrobatics, the Curran Scheme. Another amends the Customs Act, backtracking to July 1, 1976. 
In the hands of a ruthlessly ambitious regime-in-a-hurry (and readers over three years old may remember one) retrospectivity would be the ultimate weapon. 
A business, legally constituted today, could, a year hence, find its structure retrospectively unlawful- with back taxes that would close its doors. The Libs have obligingly made Labor's front-door nationalisation plans unnecessary. 
Backdated laws could batter at civil liberties, too. 
Migrants could be de-naturalised: journalists declared undesirable for having written columns like this one. 
It can happen. During the golden Whitlam years, when the Media Department proposed controls on the press, I received calls from functionaries who told me that my days as a newspaperman were numbered. 
Retrospectivity is a cancer that must be excised from the statutes. We need a law declaring it illegal . . . 
The writer ends the article by saying- I think with tongue in cheek- that that law itself should be retrospective. 
I am sorry that I cannot answer that, but I am afraid that I must agree with the article that I have just read, by John Pinkey. The philosophy of backdating tax is one that the Liberal Party should have nothing to do with. Those honourable senators who were here when the Curran scheme legislation was passed will recall that the Government argued then that retrospectively was essential in order to prevent millions from being lost by the Treasury. We never did get an accurate assessment of how much the Treasury saved as a result of that action, and no estimate has been given of how much the Government hopes to obtain by taxing holiday pay in the way that is envisaged. Unfortunately once again, I feel, the Government is throwing away the rule book and setting precedents that we all could live to regret. We must remember that the Liberal Party 's platform states clearly that the Party is against retrospectivity in tax matters; in fact, very much against it. 
I believe that unless we stick to the rules people will become disillusioned and confused and will end up not trusting us. We cannot drop some of our ideals one day, because they do not suit us, and readopt them the next. We cannot get over a matter such as this simply by having a Minister say that a matter is not retrospective when it so clearly is. I am afraid that I must disagree quite violently with the actions of the Government in this matter. In this case, and in another that I shall mention in a moment, we should stick to our Party's principles. Taxation legislation should not, in any circumstances, or where there is any doubt, have a retrospective effect. The taxation system is a most important part of any democratic government system. As I have said previously, changes should not predate a clearly definitive statement by the responsible Minister. Once such a statement has been made, the legislation enacting the change should be speedily, but not hurriedly- as has happened in this case- introduced. Otherwise we have government by ministerial statement, and the countries where that happens are usually called dictatorships. 
If we in the Government parties expect people to plan their affairs within the law, we should have nothing to do with legislation such as this. The Government has been badly advised and should realise that. How can people plan when they do not know where they stand from one day to the next? Retrospectivity is against the platform of the Liberal Party. It is unwise and, in my opinion, leaves people not knowing quite what will happen next. This Bill should be amended so that the provisions which apply to long service leave will apply also to ordinary leave; namely, that only leave which accrues after Budget day will be subject to the new tax and leave which accrued prior to Budget day- unless used before a person retires- will be taxed under the old rule, as many people had expected it would be. 
I leave that example of retrospectivity to turn to another. I refer to the proposed increase of 1  Yi  per cent in the personal income tax rate. I think honourable senators will agree that there can be no argument whatever but that the Government has made the increase retrospective to 1 July. At page 20 of his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said. 
It is intended to adjust pay-as-you-eam instalment deductions from 1 November 1978. 
The increase is effective from 1 July, and therefore the extra deduction to be made from a taxpayer's wages or salary after 1 November will be designed to meet his or her additional tax liability for the whole of 1978-79 and not just for the period after 1 November. 
What happens to people who retired between 30 June and Budget day this year? They will have paid tax on whatever they earned in that time but will find when they fill in their income tax return at the end of the financial year that they have to pay an additional amount of tax on whatever money they earned between the end of the financial year and Budget day. Surely that is retrospective. It is taking money from people when they no longer have the opportunity to earn it, and this very simple example shows just how dangerous this practice of retrospectivity is. 
I do not think there can be a much clearer definition of the philosophy of the Government to accept retrospectivity than in the statement from the Budget Speech which I read a few moments ago. I am very disappointed that the Government did not say that it would increase the tax to a slightly higher rate from Budget to Budget- that would have had the same effect- or even from Budget time to the end of the financial year. Once more it appears that the party platform has been ignored and I believe it is being ignored in a most important area. The Government should look at altering the backdating or retrospectivity of this 114 per cent provision. I close my remarks by saying that I want it clearly understood that I do not agree with the backdating of any legislation. It is time we had incorporated in the Constitution clauses that stop such legislation and I believe a referendum along those lines, especially in view of some of the things contained in this Budget, would be passed quite easily by the Australian people. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Science relates to the serious flu epidemic which is presently raging throughout Tasmania and causing schools to be closed and a great many people to be absent from work. If I had any sense that is where I would be- absent from work. Does the Minister recall seeing an article in the  New Scientist  by  Sir Fred  Hoyle and one other person dated 28 September headed: 'Influenza from Outer Space?'. Does the Minister agree with  Sir Fred  Hoyle that the new strains of influenza viruses are falling as it were as manna from heaven? Is the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation investigating  Sir Fred  's allegation? Or does the Minister subscribe to the view that the recent sunspot activity and the associated southern auroras which have been seen recently in Tasmania are the real culprits behind this most recent serious flu epidemic? 
-As I indicated yesterday, I feel that certain aspects of this Bill, to which this clause in particular relates, should be re-examined by the Government. I have had drafted certain amendments which have been circulated and which I propose to move in a moment. As honourable senators know, amendments on such a technically complicated Bill must be compiled by those who are expert in the field. I have adopted that course and would ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  to thank those officers who yesterday prepared the amendments for me so rapidly. I am very grateful for their help, without which the Minister would not have the problems that he may have in a moment or two. 
The effect of the amendment, although quite lengthy, is to leave out all of present section 26ac. Effectively, it puts annual leave in the same boat as long service leave. In other words, only 5 per cent of the lump sum payment for annual leave accumulated prior to the presentation of the Budget, unless used during the remaining working life of the person involved, will at the end of his employment, be included for taxation purposes. Any annual leave that accrues after Budget day will be subject to the 32-33  ]A  per cent figure, depending on the ruling rate at the time. 
The amendment would remove any doubt that any of us may have about retrospectivity or unfairness that may inadvertently have crept in. It would cost the Treasury a minimal sum in terms of revenue, and politically would be extremely wise. The action of the Government in this matter affects only a few people who, quite rightly, had certain expectations, and its acceptance of the amendment would be wise. 
I would also thank the Minister for the information that he gave me last night in correcting some advice that I had been given about what would happen if someone obtained a certain amount of income, purely as a result of an annual leave payment, early in the financial year- to the effect that he would get all of that tax back. That brings me to another point. Many people will now opt to retire early in a financial year. They will take the lump sum for annual leave and pay the 32 per cent taxation rate. They will virtually lend it to the Government for 12 months interest free and will get it back when they put in their income tax return at the end of that financial year. Really, the Government will not derive a great deal of revenue from this provision. I went over most of these points yesterday. I do not think this case is as unwise as was the proposed tax on children's income, or the intention to tax invalid pensioners but it is one that, in good conscience, I must try to correct. I therefore move: 
Leave out proposed section 26aC, insert the following sections: 26aC. ( 1 ) This section applies to any amount paid after 1 5 August 1978 (whether voluntarily, by agreement or by compulsion of law) to a taxpayer in a lump sum in consequence of the retirement of the taxpayer after that date from any office or employment or in consequence of the termination after that date of any office or employment of the taxpayer, being an amount that is paid in respect of unused annual leave or in respect of unused annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to that leave. 
Where- , 
an amount to which this section applies is paid to a taxpayer in a year of income in respect of unused annual leave or in respect of unused annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to that leave; and 
the eligible service period in relation to that unused annual leave commenced after 15 August 1978, the assessable income of the taxpayer of the year of income shall include the amount of the payment. (3)Where- 
an amount to which this section applies (in this subsection referred to as the 'lump sum amount') is paid to a taxpayer in a year of income in respect of unused annual leave or in respect of unused annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to that leave; 
the eligible service period in relation to that unused annual leave commenced on or before 15 August 1 978 and ended after that date; and 
the employment or service of the taxpayer was on a full-time basis during the whole of the eligible service period or was on a part-time basis during the whole of the eligible service period, the assessable income of the taxpayer of the year of income shall include an amount ascertained in accordance with the formula 

<graphic href="078232197810126_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

where- 
A is the lump sum amount; 
B is the number of whole days of annual leave included in the unused annual leave in respect of which the lump sum amount was paid; 
C is the number of whole days in the eligible service period that occurred after 1 5 August 1978; 
D is the number of whole days of annual leave that accrued in respect of the eligible service period and were used by the taxpayer before the retirement date; 
E is the number of whole days in the eligible service period; and 
Fis- 
in a case where the number of whole days of annual leave that accrued in respect of the eligible service period and were used by the taxpayer after 1 5 August 1978 exceeds the number (in this paragraph referred to as the 'relevant number') that bears to the number of whole days of annual leave that accrued in respect of the eligible service period (including days of annual leave that were used by the taxpayer before the retirement date) the same proportion as the number of whole days in the eligible service period that occurred after 15 August 1978 bears to the number of whole days in the eligible service periodthe relevant number; and 
in any other case- the number of whole days of annual leave that accrued in respect of the eligible service period and were used by the taxpayer after 1 5 August 1978. 
Where- 
an amount to which this section applies is paid to a taxpayer in a year of income in respect of unused annual leave or in respect of unused annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to that leave; 
the eligible service period in relation to that unused annual leave commenced on or before 15 August 1978 and ended after that date; and 
the employment or service of the taxpayer during the eligible service period was partly on a full-time basis and partly on a part-time basis, the assessable income of the taxpayer of the year of income shall include an amount equal to the sum of- 
the amount that would be calculated in accordance with the formula in sub-section (3) if- 
the reference in that sub-section to the lump sum amount were a reference to so much of the lump sum amount as was paid in respect of unused annual leave that accrued in respect of the employment or service of the taxpayer on a fulltime basis; 
a reference in that sub-section to whole days of annual leave were a reference to whole days of annual leave that accrued in respect of the employment or service of the taxpayer on a fulltime basis; and 
a reference in that sub-section to whole days in the eligible service period were a reference to whole days in the eligible service period during which the employment or service of the taxpayer was on a full-time basis; and 
the amount that would be calculated in accordance with the formula in sub-section (3) if- 
the reference in that sub-section to the lump sum amount were a reference to so much of the lump sum amount as was paid in respect of unused annual leave that accrued in respect of the employment or service of the taxpayer on a parttime basis; 
a reference in that sub-section to whole days of annual leave were a reference to whole days of annual leave that accrued in respect of the employment or service of the taxpayer on a parttime basis; and 
a reference in that sub-section to whole days in the eligible service period were a reference to whole days in the eligible service period during which the employment or service of the taxpayer was on a part-time basis. 
Where- 
an amount to which this section applies (in this subsection referred to as the 'lump sum amount') is paid to a taxpayer in a year of income in respect of unused annual leave or in respect of unused annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to that leave; and 
the eligible service period in relation to that unused annual leave commenced on or before 15 August 1978, the assessable income of the taxpayer of the year of income shall include, in addition to any amount included in that assessable income by the application of sub-section (3) or (4) in relation to the lump sum amount, an amount equal to 5 per cent of the amount remaining after deducting from the lump sum amount any amount included in that assessable income by the application of sub-section (3) or (4) in relation to the lump sum amount. 
A reference in this section to the payment to a taxpayer in consequence of the retirement of the taxpayer from any office or employment or in consequence of the termination of any office or employment of the taxpayer of a lump sum in respect of unused annual leave shall be read as including a reference to the payment to the taxpayer in consequence of that retirement or termination, as the case may be, of an amount in respect of, or an amount calculated directly or indirectly by reference to, annual leave, or annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to annual leave (which annual leave is in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant annual leave') to which the taxpayer was not entitled immediately before that retirement or termination, as the case may be, but to which the taxpayer would have become entitled, or that would ordinarily have been granted to the taxpayer, at a later time if the taxpayer had continued in that office or employment for a period after the time of the retirement or termination, as the case may be, and, for the purposes of the application of this section in relation to the taxpayer, a reference to the number of whole days of annual leave that accrued in respect of the eligible service period shall be read as a reference to the sum of the number of whole days of annual leave that actually accrued in respect of the eligible service period and the number of whole days included in the relevant annual leave. 
For the purposes of the application of this section in relation to an amount (in this sub-section referred to as the lump sum amount') paid to a taxpayer in consequence of the retirement of the taxpayer from any office or employment or in consequence of the termination of any office or employment of the taxpayer, being an amount paid in respect of unused annual leave or in respect of unused annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to that leave- eligible service period ' means- 
where the taxpayer had not, before the retirement date, used any annual leave to which he became entitled in respect of any office or employment in respect of which the lump sum amount was paidthe period by reference to which the lump sum amount was determined; and 
where the taxpayer had, before the retirement date, used annual leave to which he became entitled in respect of any office or employment in respect of which the lump sum amount was paid- the period by reference to which- 
the entitlement of the taxpayer to the annual leave that was so used by the taxpayer; and 
the lump sum amount, was determined; retirement date ' means the date on which the taxpayer retired from the office or employment or on which the office or employment of the taxpayer was terminated, as the case may be. 
In this section, 'annual leave' means- 
leave described as annual leave, recreation leave or annual holidays, being leave to which a person has an entitlement by virtue of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory, an award, determination or industrial agreement in force under any such law, a contract of employment or the terms of appointment to an office; 
leave described otherwise than as annual leave, recreation leave or annual holidays, being leave to which a person has an entitlement by virtue of such a law, award, determination, industrial agreement or contract or by virtue of the terms of appointment to an office and the entitlement to which is determined by reference to matters similar to matters by reference to which entitlement to leave referred to in paragraph (a) is ordinarily determined; or 
leave that may be made available to a person as a privilege, being leave the availability of which is ordinarily determined by reference to matters similar to matters by reference to which entitlement to leave referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) is ordinarily determined. 
A reference in sub-section (3), in relation to a taxpayer, to a number of whole days of annual leave shall be read as a reference to a number of whole days of annual leave in respect of which the taxpayer was paid or was entitled to be paid full or ordinary pay. 
For the purposes of sub-section (3) as affected by sub-section (9), where a taxpayer used a number (in this sub-section referred to as the 'relevant number') of days of annual leave and was paid or entitled to be paid in respect of that annual leave at a rate (in this sub-section referred to as the 'reduced rate') of pay that was less than the rate (in this sub-section referred to as the 'ordinary rate') of full or ordinary pay, the taxpayer shall be deemed to have used a number (disregarding fractions) of days of annual leave that bears to the relevant number the same proportion as the reduced rate bears to the ordinary rate and to have been paid full or ordinary pay in respect of the days of annual leave deemed to have been used. '. 
-I would like to cover three points. The first relates to what  Senator Missen  said when he said that I was voting against a Budget measure. I am not voting specifically against a Budget measure at all. I did not vote against the second reading of these Bills. I claim that the amendment I have moved is one that the Government should seriously consider and one that will improve the Bill involved. Secondly, I am not quite sure whether the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  understood what  Senator Elstob  was getting at just before the sitting was suspended for lunch when he said that somebody might retire and get a lump sum of $3,000 early in the financial year. I would like the Minister to look at the situation in which somebody is retrenched, gets quite a sizeable lump sum, is faced with having no job, yet has to give the Government perhaps a third of that lump sum and, I understand, is not able to get that back from the Government for 15 months. Does the Commissioner of Taxation have any discretion in the handling of such a situation? I believe that the position was not quite as serious when only five per cent of the amount received was included for tax purposes. 
Finally, I would like to take up what  Senator Rae  said when he suggested that perhaps it was time that we amended the Constitution with respect to retrospective taxation. I would like to let the Minister know that I have in my hand a draft of a Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution to prohibit the retrospective imposition of tax. At the right time I intend to take this draft to the party room and to have discussions about it. I am not suggesting that at this stage I want to put the people of Australia to a specific referendum on this matter, but I would like this matter to be discussed, be it in this chamber, in the party room or wherever. That shows how seriously I have viewed this matter of retrospective taxation. I received this draft from the office of the Parliamentary Counsel on 1 1 July this year, following the discussions we had here on the Curran scheme. I think that we all have to look at this matter. Then we will see just where the Australian Labor Party stands on this matter of retrospectivity. 

 Senator McLAREN (South Australia). (2.53  )-Mr Chairman- 

 Senator Young was very emphatic when he looked across here and said that the Australian Labor Party senators would not cross the floor on any issue. I interjected and said that before we bring measures into the Parliament we analyse them thoroughly. We are not ostracised by the Cabinet, as is his colleague,  Mr Giles,  who said in a recent statement published in the  Murray Pioneer  that as far as the Budget is concerned, Government supporters are not privy to anything that the Cabinet decides; that they do not know until it comes down what the Government will do. 
Some time afterwards I spoke to  Senator Marriott  and sympathised with him. He said: 'I could not speak out against my Party. I am loyal.' I give him credit for that, but those senators suffered the axe. They could see the terrible things that were about to happen as a result of the actions taken by their colleagues. So  Senator Young  should not be boasting about what he has done. He ought to be talking about what he did not have the courage to do and that was let the Budget, 1975, go to a vote so that his colleagues could show their independence. He did not have the courage to do that. I saw 

 Senator Withers in the chamber a while ago. It is unfortunate that I do not have with me a statement that he put out. I will get it later. 
I think I have answered the puns that have been thrown across the chamber by  Senator Walters  and  Senator Young.  They ought to take some notice of what I have said. They should put their votes where their mouth is. They have the opportunity on this amendment which was moved by  Senator Townley  of doing just that. 
I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken part in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their stated objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enacting legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely: ° Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 
 Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. ° Unemployed divided into those with dependants and those without. ° Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister will remember that last week I asked a question relating to the overcharging by Telecom of some subscribers and that I thought that Telecom was robbing some people who have little recourse about their accounts. I now ask: Is the Minister aware that one account that was subsequently drawn to my attention was nearly $1,350 more than the subscriber's average account of about $85, that such an account would require more than 50 minutes of STD each day from Hobart to Sydney for more than 3 months, and that this subscriber had two business telephones that he could use for STD purposes if he wanted to save tax? I also ask whether the Minister is aware that these and other obvious errors in accounts that Telecom cannot explain away are bringing the whole of Telecom 's accounting and recording system into a position where there is grave doubt about its accuracy. Where else is someone required to pay an account that the supplier of the service cannot justify, which service is cut off if the subscriber does not pay the account? Why should the onus of proof be on the subscriber? Having regard to the case I have detailed and others in my file will the Minister agree to emphasise the need for a recording system that details all STD calls irrespective of the cost involved in installing that system? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to set up an independent accounts appeal tribunal until an accurate recording system is introduced? 
-We are discussing a Bill that gives effect to the Government's proposals in respect of changes to social service pensions and benefits, such as the unemployment benefit and family allowances. It is really an amendment to a fairly complicated 
Act comprising many pages. It is a Bill that takes a fair deal of understanding. For that reason I want to say at the outset that I feel that more time should be allowed us in which to deal with this type of Bill. If we are to act as a house of review, as I feel we must, it should become standard practice to present Bills in such a manner that would allow amendments to be made to them. Of course, some of the amendments that have to be made are very complicated to prepare and are prepared for us in many cases by our amendment advisers. Last week we had a Bill presented to the House of Representatives one day and presented here the next. It was a complicated Bill and it became my wish to formulate amendments to it. It was only through the excellent help of the Parliamentary Counsel that satisfactory amendments were available in time. 
Before I speak to a couple of the clauses of this Bill I should like to correct something that the previous  speaker  in this debate,  Senator Coleman,  said. She did not really say that the Government was wrong but she intimated that perhaps people might receive less by way of family allowances now that family allowances were being paid every month. It is my belief that although they are paid monthly, the people who receive them - 
-Just a moment, senator; wait until I have finished. Although the family allowance is to be paid monthly now, it is my belief that families in receipt of an allowance will receive exactly the same amount in any one year as they would have received previously. I know that  Senator Coleman  said this in a question to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  but I thought that it was worth mentioning at this stage. 
I do not think that  Senator Coleman  is correct and I am sure that the Minister when replying to the debate will support what I have said. Last week the amendments that I had prepared were aimed at putting all people in the same boat with respect to annual and long service leave. This week my comments on clause 6 of this Bill are designed to do the same thing. I would like to see the pensioners of Australia in the same situation as those people who work. Those who work have their incomes adjusted twice a year now. It will be remembered that the Government attempted to have the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission accept once yearly wage adjustments but it was not able to win that argument. Consequently, we still have twice yearly adjustments for wage earners which, in my opinion, given the fact that the inflation rate is well down, is a satisfactory interval between income reviews. When inflation was higher maybe it was necessary to look at wages at three-monthly intervals and to make adjustments on that basis but I agree that six-monthly changes make sense now. 
If we accept that wage earners are to have sixmonthly adjustments, there is a great deal of argument to suggest that we should treat pensioners in the same manner. They are not able to form the pressure groups that unionists and other people are able to form and, even though I do not like to have to speak against the Government which I know has done a lot in this country to correct the economic ills with which it was left by the Labor Government, I for one when I feel it is necessary will stand up in this place to try to do what I can to ensure that pensioners are treated in a manner that is fair and as similar as possible to the manner in which wage earners in the community are treated. I feel that that would be fair and that that is the principle the Government should accept. When the Government did not win its argument before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to have wage earners given once yearly wage adjustments, I thought that it should have decided then that it would let pension increases be governed by roughly the same rule. 
Most Australians realise that they have to make some contribution to getting the country back on its feet but there are some who are less able than others to afford to help achieve that aim. In any case, I am not sure that the' consumer price index always accurately reflects the costs in the area where pensioners have to spend most of their money- food. Those of us who understand the way in which the consumer price index is made up will realise that if housing costs go down, for instance, it could lower the consumer price index and, hence, could lower any pension increase. 
Excuse me,  Senator Walters,  but I said that it could lower any increase. I did not say that it could lower the pension. Am I not right? 
-That is what I said. I do not want to argue with  Senator Walters  but if she says that I am not right then I have to take objection. 
I did not say that. I was talking about the increase. I am sorry,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I do not want to argue this matter which is one in which I am quite involved, but when a comment that I make is called untrue I have to respond. Pensioners are not in the business of buying houses; they are in the business of buying food and that is an area in which the consumer price index shows that costs always seem to be going up. Admittedly, when there is a small percentage increase in inflation, the pension increases if granted every six months will be only small, but that is not the point. The point I am trying to make is that the Government should as far as possible treat all people in the same manner. 
There is one other point that bears some discussion- what was it that was promised. Pensions were removed from the political football arena when they became automatically indexed. I believe that we as a party promised to stick to that. I think it is time that all politicians learned that they should not make promises unless they will be able to keep them. It is my firmly held opinion that most people in the community are decent, law-abiding citizens who would keep their word even at personal expense. I believe that they simply do not understand it when politicians do not stick to what they have promised. People expect politicians to stick to their word. They expect to be able to bank on politicians' policy statements. As I said last week, maybe it is time that we altered the Constitution, this time to insert a clause that would force politicians to stick to what they say. As you may have noticed,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I have become both angry and embarrassed by what has happened. I get embarrassed when people do not stick to their word. I repeat: The people outside the ivory towers of Canberra just do not understand us when we do not stick to our word. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, from what I have said I think it is apparent that I do not support the aspects of this Bill relating to the yearly indexation of pensions. Notwithstanding that this is a Budget Bill, I intend to oppose the relevant clauses. Let it be clearly understood that I will not abstain from voting. I am paid a very high salary to make decisions and to vote according to those decisions. That is something that I will always do. Early in my career I think I did once abstain from voting, but I want to make it clear that, particularly in the Senate, I feel that a person should follow his voice. Having dealt with that matter, I want to say that I feel that to means test the increase in pensions for people over 70 years of age will cost the country nearly as much as it will save. It is specifically against the Liberal Party platform. I must say publicly that I feel that it is a retrograde move. Maybe the Government in better financial times will be able to change back to the situation that we have now. I certainly ask it to do that if it is at all possible. 
-My position is quite clear. I will stick to what I have said irrespective of the drivel in  Senator McLaren's  speeches. He will be the one whom the pensioners will be able to blame for this Bill not going through. Some people on this side of the chamber have said that they would not vote with that dill even if they were paid to do it. He is the one whom the pensioners should blame. 
I just ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  whether she is able to say how much it will cost to apply this means test to an increase in pensions received by those over 70 years of age and how, in fact, the process will be carried out. How is the Department going to carry out the means testing? Will yet another form have to be filled in by people who are approaching the eventide of their lives? If so, will the Minister assure me that the print on those forms is of a sensible size for people over 70 years of age to be able to read it? 
First of all I would like very briefly to apologise to my fellow Tasmanian senator with whom I thought I was a little abrupt last night. 
I assure you,  Senator Walters,  that I was going to apologise even before. It just shows that at times you stir us up perhaps more than you should. That is all I want to say. I apologise for my sharpness. It is not my usual character, I assure you. Today, as is my usual habit, I got out of this building at lunch time. It was a nice day and when I was outside in the sunshine I thought what a warm and balmy day it was. For some reason my mind stopped at the word 'balmy' because it reminded me of a speech in this place last night after I had spoken. 
It was made by one of the senators on the other side of the chamber. He spent a considerable amount of time erroneously detailing my background. I thought today- I shall relate my remarks to the clause- we would look at the background of this shearer and poultry farmer. Let us see what happened in 1970 when this guy first stood for election. If honourable senators would like to look at my figures, they are here. I went to the trouble to get them for you,  Senator McLaren;  you can come and compare them to see where you stand. Let us look at yours for once. In 1970, out of a number of over 609,000 who voted, how many do honourable senators reckon he got? 
-No, that was informal. He polled 1,265 votes. Then he came here and his cackling started. In 1974, out of more than 722,000 votes, how many do honourable senators reckon he got? 
I was going to-280, just about one quarter. Where do honourable senators reckon he was in the Labor Party numbers? Down the bottom! It just shows that all the public out there are not stupid- 280 of them are, but not all of them. What about 1975? Out of nearly 760,000 votes he received- come on, who has got it?- 2 13. 
-That is right. The voting numbers are going up and his votes are going down, the more he cackles. Once again he won the unpopularity competition in the Labor Party in South Australia. 
I am going to relate it to that. I am going to show the Committee how stupid this bloke is. 
I am going to. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-Get up and defend him. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It follows questions that I have asked on a couple of occasions in the last few weeks regarding overcharging in telephone accounts. I preface today's question by saying that I have no complaints against the staff of Telecom, as I am sure that the Minister would understand, but do not agree with its mechanical accounting system. 
What legal right does Telecom have to remove a phone service for which rent in advance has been paid, when it has no positive proof that its recording system has been working accurately? Secondly, until Telecom has installed a proper subscriber trunk dialling accounting system which shows the number called, the time of the call, the duration of the call and the charge for the call, as is done in most other countries, will the Minister require Telecom to waive the extra charge which is made for operator-connected trunk calls so that people can keep a check on their accounts? Thirdly, does the Minister agree that most people are honest and do not complain about their accounts without reason and certainly do not complain to their member of parliament unless they know that Telecom is wrong? Finally, will the Minister request the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to table in the Senate or in the House of Representatives any files relating to STD charging systems that have been investigated by Telecom or by the previous Postmaster-General's Department? 
I  present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honouable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition ofthe undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to  Senator Chaney  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Transport, not Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. No doubt he is aware of the questions that I have asked over past years relating to the upgrading of the Hobart airport and the possibility subsequently of flights from Tasmania to New Zealand. As such flights would most probably require reciprocal rights to be granted to the New Zealand Government and as, to my knowledge, the only suitable aircraft for such flights that are owned by New Zealand are DC8 aircraft, will the Minister say what alterations will need to be made at Hobart airport so that DC8 aircraft will be able to land and take-off with reasonable loads, and what navigational and other services would have to be altered or upgraded for that airport to meet the standards laid down by the International Civil Aviation Organisation? I have been advised previously that it would be possible to site at Hobart airport an additional runway which could be at least an extra 2,000 feet in length- I say 'feet' for we non-metricated people- and therefore a lot safer than the present runway, which is fairly short. As there are many people out of work in the Hobart area, will the Minister urgently set up an investigation team to look at all aspects of the suggested new runway with a view to starting any alterations as soon as possible in an endeavour to help the unemployed persons in that area? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee E on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1 978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister able to confirm that the Royal Australian Air Force has finalised its consideration of the possibility of equipping the VIP flight with two Boeing 727-100 series aircraft but has not been able to find aircraft suitable in range? Is it true that the Air Force is now considering the purchase of two Boeing 707 aircraft and that such aircraft would cost over $20m? Will the Minister confirm that the cost of running these aircraft which, I am told, will be called Air Force 1 and Air Force 2, will be of the order of $ 15m a year, or about three times the annual cost of all salaries of senators and members of the House of Representatives? Does the Minister agree that such expenditure at this stage is contrary to common sense? Will the Minister arrange to table in the Senate all correspondence that has taken place between the Government and the Air Force so that the Senate can see to what stage this matter has progressed? 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee E and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I  present the following petition from 146 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the provision of payments for induced abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the levels of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for induced abortion, except one performed when a mother's life is endangered. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. Petition received and read. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that the estimated cost of telephones for government departments in 1978-79-at least as billed by Telecom to the departments- will be in excess of $82m? How does each department justify paying Telecom accounts when there is absolutely no way that Telecom can assure anyone that its accounts are correct? Will the Minister take up this matter with the Auditor-General to ensure that Telecom is advised that it must submit accounts that can actually be justified before the Auditor-General will be satisfied? Has any department ever submitted to Telecom, or to the PostmasterGeneral's Department, as it was known previously, that it felt its telephone account was in error? If not, why not? Finally, as Telecom does not have to submit details of subscriber trunk dialling calls to its customers, how on earth do the departments control private STD calls which could easily account for 10 per cent of a department's Telecom bill and so involve a waste of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. No doubt she is aware of the fairly recent advent of the sale throughout Australia of microwave ovens. No doubt she is also aware that no metal should be put inside these ovens and that therefore many people use plastic cooking utensils. Has the Department of Health examined the danger, from a cancer point of view, of using plastic cooking utensils in microwave ovens? 
-by leave- I table the additional information received by Estimates Committee E and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. No doubt he will remember that last week I asked a question relating to the possible purchase by the Government of Boeing 707 aircraft to be used on overseas trips by the Prime Minister. I now ask: Is the Minister aware that if such an aircraft were bought it would cost in excess of $3,000 an hour to operate, that it would not be able to land at all Australian airports and in many ways would be too large and too noisy? As both the Prime Minister and  Senator Carrick  have indicated that security is the reason why the Government is trying to find a new type of aircraft for international travel, I ask: Has the Government considered buying one of the new generation small, quiet, long-range jets, several of which- such as the 30-seat Canadair Challenger- are listed in Jane's most recent aircraft book and also discussed in an article in the August edition of  Interavia?  Is the Minister aware that by purchasing a small aircraft the cost of operating it would not preclude its use within Australia and it would provide the Government with an aircraft that would remain useful for many years ahead? Finally, will the Minister guarantee the Senate that no decision on this matter will be taken while the Parliament is in recess? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and preface it by pointing out that my mother was not scared by a telephone, neither was she stamped upon. I ask the Minister: As booklets of stamps were a most convenient way of buying stamps when they were available and were philatelic items valued by collectors, most probably because the stamps often had portraits of Prime Ministers on them, will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and 
Telecommunications to consider the reintroduction of stamps in booklet form? May I suggest that the booklet be of the value of $5 which, no doubt, the Minister will realise in a flash represents twenty-five 20c stamps. 
Following the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  I feel I must say that some consideration has already been given by some of us to doing just what he said about referring this matter to one of the standing committees. Of course, I would like to see it referred to a standing committee of which I am a member. 
I wish to speak briefly about a matter that recently I have raised several times by way of question in the Senate. I refer to the way in which Telecom operates its accounts in this country. I apologise to the people from the Department who appeared before the Estimates Committee. I was not able to get to the hearings but I am following the matter in a couple of other areas. I intend to keep following up this particular matter because I think it is very serious for the people of Australia. 
Just by way of background let me say that, as well as being a pharmacist, I am an electronics engineer and have worked for Telecom for a certain period. I am not saying this for any reason other than to point out that I can understand what is going on with a telephone system. Certainly, that is more than other people in the country can do. I think it is quite fair to say that no Telecom account that is issued in this country can be guaranteed by the Commission to be accurate. The Commission just cannot guarantee that, particularly if any STD calls have been made. Many reasons were stated during the evidence given before the Estimates Committee, as recorded from page 777 onwards. It was stated that the Commission received complaints in respect of, I think, 0.8 per cent of accounts. Some of those would involve mechanical or typing errors. For instance, I have one here. It is my record so far. It was sent to me. It was not $90 or $900 in error; it was $9,000 in error. 
-That is the record. I anticipate that at some stage I will get a better one than that. The point is not whether it is $9,000 or $9 in error; the point is that errors are being made and there is a high percentage of errors. If chemists made the same number of errors as Telecom makes in its accounts we would have a lot of dead people lying around the country and there would be a hell of a scream. 
A person can question an account and ask for a meter to put near his phone, in the same way as he has an electricity meter. With an electricity meter he can go out and look at it. He also can go out and look at a water meter. People cannot get meters for telephones. Telecom says that they are available. The chap in charge of the Postal Commission in Tasmania said on television that people could get meters. The next day someone rang up and said that he wanted six meters for his business. He was told that he could not have them because they were not accurate. Telecom just will not give meters to people. 
One man who got one wished he had not done so- and so did Telecom. He got a telemeter, I think it is called, at a rental of $12 per annum, because he received a bill for $850. I do not know what his regular bill was; so I cannot comment on that. He was in a six-digit area. When he was dialling with the telemeter installed, he dialled two digits and saw it click over. He hung up and did that again, and the meter clicked over again. He had also asked Telecom to put one of those tracing things that are attached at the exchange on to his telephone. He dialled four times. He rang Telecom up and said: 'Have you just recorded four calls for me?' He was told: 
Yes, we have'. He said: 'I would like to let you know that the total number of digits I dialled to get those four calls was eight'. Not once was the phone answered. That was a major electrical fault which that gentleman had discovered because he had a telemeter near his phone and which many people might have noted if they had been given one; but Telecom will not give people meters- at least not in Tasmania. It may say that there is a delay in getting a meter, but that is not the point in Tasmania. Meters are available in Tasmania, but Telecom will not give them to people because it does not trust their accuracy. I do not want to go on, because I intend to continue on with this matter in some other areas at another stage. 
Complaining is very difficult for some people if they have to go to a great big organisation which they are not used to dealing with and which is full of bureaucrats who admittedly, as was said in the evidence, do their best to help. If a person has a meter that has gone mad and he gets Telecom to check it, or if there is some mechanical failure and he asks Telecom to check the meter, and it is checked, and it is all right, in most cases Telecom will say that he is responsible for that account. I know that in the end it comes down to a very small number of people who have their accounts adjusted; but to a large extent, I believe, that is because a lot of people are not sure that their accounts are too high. They are not prepared to go to the trouble that they have to go to in order to get an adjustment. I took up one small account because somebody asked me to do so. I was ridiculed a little on television for doing that, because it involved only $9. People did not know that I also had a $9,000 account into which I was looking. 
I believe that the accounts that Telecom gives to people should provide details, as any other business has to do. If we fly with Trans-Australia Airlines it gives us an invoice for the ticket that we buy and these days it usually has on it the date we flew, the flight we took, and so on. TAA keeps records that we can get if we have to. Telecom should show on the telephone account what the American companies show. It should give the details of the number that is called. I am talking now about STD calls. I do not mean every local call. I am not particularly worried about the local call situation at this stage. A person should be able to know the number he has called, the time the call was made, the duration of the call and the charge for the call. That should be supplied to him automatically with his account, as is the practice in most other businesses. I believe that a few years ago a major decision error was made not to include this kind of system. I know that it is going to cost a lot of money now to put it in. Let me go on and give a couple of other reasons why I think it will become essential. A Hydro meter is at the house and the lines go into the house. Nobody can tag into them. 
I will leave that to the honourable senator's judgment. With electricity meters the lines go into the house and the meters are at the house. It would be very difficult for someone to climb up an electricity pole and connect his refrigerator, his fan or something like that and steal one's electricity. He would have to do it after the meter. I have no proof of this happening, but what would there be to stop somebody picking up one of those big round telephone line things, dialling a house, finding out that nobody was home, doing that for a few days, and then saying: 'I am on my lunch hour now. I will ring my mother in Western Australia and have a talk to her'? On to whose account would the cost of that call go? What would happen if that person was connected to international subscriber dialling and had a friend in London? He could speak to London for an hour. What does a one-hour call to London cost? In round figures, it costs $240. 
Do we have any accounts with those kinds of errors? I have one here. The usual account is $80 or possibly $85, but this one is $1,450. I have another one; that of a pensioner who was in India helping as a church missionary for three months. The telephone account during that time for metered calls was two-thirds more than in the previous six months. People who are away from their home are at particular risk. 
That is right. As well as people who are away from home, I believe that people who have just moved into an area are very much at risk. A person who moves into an area comes in without any previous record. He does not know what his phone bill is going to be. What is there to stop an unscrupulous linesman ringing his mother in Western Australia? 
What would there be to stop somebody ringing his mother in Western Australia if he lived in Tasmania? 
-Do not bring mothers into it. We have had enough of them. The point is what would there be to stop somebody getting into a new account and saying: 'I will go for my life for a few weeks because they will not know what the account is going to be and they have no record to compare it with'? I have had a few such cases. I think there is a bit of skulduggery such as that going on around the country. A lot of people get the idea that telephone equipment is just for use and that nothing will ever happen to them over its use. For example, they believe that they could not be thrown into gaol over its use. I do not know whether they could be but they certainly can be taken to court. I have a letter which was sent to an invalid pensioner by the Deputy Crown Solictor. It reads: 
I have instructions to issue a summons against you for the above amount. If I do so - 
This is a threat, I believe - considerable additional costs will be added to the debt. 
Unless within the next seven ( 7 ) days - 
This letter was sent to an invalid pensioner and the amount that Telecom is claiming is more than $250- 
I receive your remittance for the above amount or an acceptable proposition - 
It is not in Sydney either- the summons will be issued against you. 
I do not want to read any more because I think I have covered all the points I wished to raise. There are mechanical and electrical faults in the system. At the moment if somebody goes away on a holiday and gets his grandmother to come in to feed the cat, and subsequently he complains about a big telephone account, Telecom is likely to ask: 'Was anybody else in the house?', and rightly so just in case he had a boarder there. If he replies: 'Yes, my mother was feeding the cat', Telecom probably will say: 'It was she. She got on the phone to her uncle in Western Australia and old people cannot remember how long they take'. I have had this suggested to me. Pensioners who have complained about their accounts have told me that this is what has been said to them. A lot of pensioners have more time than we have to sit down and record the number of telephone calls they make. One pensioner who reckoned that he had been overcharged 300 unit calls, which is not very much to us but it represents a lot in cost to a pensioner, could not get anywhere with his complaint so he gave up and had to pay the bill. 
-Yes. I know that we will not be able to get a completely watertight system until we have a flat rental that includes a local call component and a detailed bill for subscriber trunk dialling and international trunk dialling calls. One of these days everbody in this country will be automatically connected to ISD. I believe that there is a system to be implemented to bill ISD calls. I think it is high time that this were done for local calls. The few details I have given tonight are by no means all that I have. I have a lot more questions up my sleeve but for a certain reason I have not asked any of them this week. I have put only one question on notice. I believe that Telecom looked at this system before deciding not to have it. I make one other point. If one happens to run a business, a hotel or a government- 
I know; that is why I mentioned it. I am not going to mention how much is the telephone account of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  but the Government's telephone account is over $82m and I believe that between 10 per cent and 20 per cent of those calls are personal STD calls in respect of which there is no check available. 
-Did the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications notice an article in the Sydney Press that indicated that the one-millionth subscriber in Sydney was given three phones at zero rental? Will the Minister say under what provision the Australian Telecommunications Commission is able to remit such a rental in those kinds of cases? Will he indicate to the Senate what number of subscribers will be necessary in all the dialling areas throughout Australia before a free phone rental will be granted, with particular reference to the 09 area and the 002 area? In other words, why should subscribers in Sydney be at an advantage to subscribers in the rest of Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, who no doubt will recall the question that I asked last week concerning the probable purchase by the Government of Boeing 707 aircraft for the VIP fleet. The Minister no doubt will remember also that in his reply he indicated that  . . throughout the world the practice now is for national heads to travel separately to minimise the risk to the security of others'. Can the Minister advise the Senate which, if any, of the heads of government who were in Australia for the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in Sydney in February of this year arrived or departed in a VIP type jet, and whether the Government has considered hiring a suitable aircraft, when needed, rather than buying two expensive aircraft? 
My question, too, is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and relates to the bridge at Hobart. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that several years ago the Tasman Bridge, which is the only bridge presently crossing the Derwent River, apart from the Bailey bridge, was knocked down by a ship and was subsequently repaired at great expense and that that repair involved replacing three spans of the bridge. Because of the way in which the ship lay on the bottom of the river one span was built at twice the length of the others. Is the Minister aware that the design work for the repairs to the Tasman Bridge was carried out in the offices of a company that had been associated with design problems in the Narrows Bridge in Perth, the West Gate Bridge in Melbourne and the Batman Bridge north of Launceston and also with problems with the design of a punt that crosses the river at Hobart? Has the Minister been advised that a dead load deflection has developed in the long replacement span of the Tasman Bridge, that the dip in that span is already of the order of 75 millimetres to 100 millimetres and that it was certainly not there when the bridge was reopened? If the design for something as simple as the strength of a dead load span has been fouled up, what guarantee have the people of Hobart that the repairs to the rest of the structure are sound? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to start immediately a total check of the design of the repairs to the Tasman Bridge? Will he also ask the Government to look urgently at finding finance for the second bridge in case major additional repairs need to be made to the Tasman Bridge? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 19 October 1978: 
1 ) What is the daily travelling and subsistence allowance paid to: (a) Ministers; (b) staff of Ministers; and (c) members of the First and Second Division of the Commonwealth Public Service, when travelling overseas on official business. 
Will the Treasurer ascertain whether the Commissioner of Taxation will allow a sum, equivalent to the travelling and subsistence allowance paid to Second Division officers of the Commonwealth Public Service, as a taxation deduction to senators and members who travel overseas under their entitlement as determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Transport will no doubt remember that on several occasions I have asked questions relating to the upgrading of Hobart Airport in such a manner that it would be suitable for international nights from Tasmania to New Zealand. Irrespective of the outcome of discussions to be held on 27 February with the New Zealand Government concerning a bilateral air agreement relating to flights from Tasmania to New Zealand, will the Government urgently consider the upgrading of the runway at Hobart not only for additional safety at Hobart but also so that when wide bodied aircraft are introduced into Australia- which should be soon if we are to have low internal air fares- it will be possible for those aircraft to land and take off again with a full payload? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to examine whether the present runway should be extended or whether another runway should be built running approximately east-west which would avoid the hills in the area of Hobart? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
How many complaints regarding suspected telephone account overcharging have been made in each State during each three month period from October 1976 to September 1978, and how many of the accounts in question were adjusted in each State in each period. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 26 September 1978: 
I have noted advertisements in certain mainland newspapers today for people to invest in a Telecom loan, for which purpose STD calls to Telecom are free of charge. As it appears technically possible, and as many people live in areas which are away from Government departments, will the Minister request the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to examine the feasibility of allowing persons who live in remote areas to telephone Government departments for the charge of a local call? Does the Minister agree that such a facility may help a great many people? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Because I realise that he is a prolific reader of newspapers, I ask: Did the Minister happen to see an article in the New Zealand  Herald  of 19 February concerning the crash of a Fokker F27-500 series aircraft which was on approach to the international airport at Auckland? No doubt the Minister will realise that rubber boats with outboard motors were used to get to the crash scene. However, it was stated that a hovercraft is still the most suitable rescue craft. No doubt the Minister is also aware of a recent incident in which a Trans-Australia Airlines DC9 aircraft landed short at Tullamarine during weather similar to that in which the Fokker crashed in New Zealand. As time is so crucial in getting to an aircraft that crashes in the sea, has the Australian Department of Transport investigated the possibility of having hovercraft stationed at airports where commercial aircraft could fall into the sea during either takeoff or landing, particularly at places such as Hobart where the approach to either end of the runway is over water? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It is about people coming from New Zealand. Is it true that New Zealanders coming to Australia do not need a passport? If this is so, what proof of identity do they need?. What safeguards does Australia have that these people will eventually return to New Zealand? Does the Minister feel that these present safeguards protect Australia against illegal immigrants who may come to Australia under an assumed name and an assumed nationality? What provisions have to be satisfied by a person coming from New Zealand before that person can get the unemployment benefit? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The question arises from an article in the  Canberra Times  of last Tuesday in which an air traffic control group warns of collision risk in the area around Canberra. It follows from a question that  Senator Bishop  asked yesterday following  Mr Nixon's  statement that there were 33 near misses involving commercial airliners during 1978, more than double the number in 1977. 1 am sure it is a matter which we all view with concern because none of us would want to fall out of the sky in aircraft pieces or personal pieces. Therefore, I ask whether the Minister is able to say how many of the near misses of last year involved small aircraft. How many involved two commercial aircraft approaching close to each other? How many of the near misses- if any- involved a Department of Defence aircraft? Finally, are Department of Defence aircraft equipped to receive and listen to appropriate civil aircraft frequencies which happen to be in use in their area? In other words, can they be advised by radar and air traffic control of an imminent collision? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Did the Minister see the article in yesterday's  Australian  relating to the amount of petrol wasted in Australian cities? In that article one expert said that computerised control of traffic lights was the way to increase the speed of traffic flow through a city and to save up to 30 per cent of the fuel that is wasted. As the saving of fuel will become a matter of increasing importance as years go by, will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to consider establishing a set of national guidelines for the installation of traffic lights and making that information available to State traffic departments? If such a set of guidelines is not practical, will the Department consider establishing a group which is expert in the theory and practice of traffic lights and traffic control and making this group available to assist State transport departments? Such a group is certainly needed in Tasmania and in Perth. 
I want to take a few minutes to deal with a matter that has been of some worry to me over the last few months. Earlier today I had intended to ask the Leader of the Government a couple of questions, not in anger but in the hope that the Government would reconsider its decision to go about buying two Boeing 707 VIP aircraft. That decision has been announced. It has been announced also that the decision was made for security reasons. I want to spend just a few minutes discussing why perhaps it should not be done. We already have a VIP fleet in this country. We have, I am advised, two BAC 1 1 1 aircraft which are fairly long-range twin engined jets; we have a couple of HS 748s which are propeller driven aircraft suitable for smaller strips; and we have three Mystere 20 aircraft which are also twinengined aircraft. I can see that there is some reason for getting an aircraft with more than two engines if we are to fly over long patches of water. In that situation, where one engine might become unserviceable, we might also suffer depressurisation which would mean that we would have to descend and travel at a lower level and therefore use up a lot more fuel. 
I have always felt that our present VIP aircraft use too much fuel. I am sure that Ministers do not endear themselves to the Australian taxpayer by floating around Australia in these kind of aircraft. The BAC 1 1 1 aircraft which we have are in pretty good condition. They have flown very few hours. 
I will get to that in a minute. If  Senator Sibraa  wants to speak he should just make a few notes and follow afterwards. It is about time some of the Opposition members spoke up about some of these matters. 
-The honourable senator should be quiet or he will not have a feather to fly with either. Trust him to speak on the chook Bill. We have these BAC 1 1 1 aircraft. They are in very good condition because in the period that we have had them they have done only a few hundred flying hours each year. Therefore they have really done the equivalent of only a couple of years' service in a commercial sphere. Used commercially, they can carry about 80 people; in their present configuration I think they carry 22 or 23 people. However, it is the average loading that is of interest. The average loading of the BAC Ills since they began operating has been about 1 1 . So we have aircraft that are big enough to carry 80 people when used commercially going around Australia carrying an average load of only 1 1 people. They are still valuable aircraft. Because we have only two of them a special supply of spares has to be kept and the Royal Australian Air Force has to have special technicians. So, they are also very expensive aircraft to operate. 
If we must go in for overseas aircraft- I am not sure that we need to- my suggestion is that those two aircraft be sold and replaced by two of the smaller Boeing 727-100 series aircraft which were available until recently. Those Boeing aircraft could then be modernised. I have been advised that it is quite possible to fit them with larger fuel tanks and the larger motors of the Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. I am not sure of the number of that jet motor, but it has a thrust of 15,500 lb, compared with the 14,000 lb thrust of the 100-series motor. 
-That could be right. I am advised that these aircraft could carry 50 people in relative luxury and since they could operate on smaller airstrips we might not have to spend the money proposed to be spent on the extensions at Canberra Airport. Today I received a letter from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  saying that the priority given to upgrading the Hobart Airport is very low. I wonder how the upgrading of the Canberra Airport has been given such a high priority. 
If the Boeing 727-100 series aircraft were fitted with bigger fuel tanks and bigger motors they would be able to carry sufficient fuel to go on these necessary international flights. Another tremendous advantage is that they could be serviced by either Trans-Australian Airlines or Ansett Airlines of Australia, which could carry the spares. The RAAF then would not need the special technicians and we would not incur the cost of maintaining only two aircraft. Qantas Airways Ltd is getting rid of its Boeing 707 aircraft because when the number of a particular type of aircraft in a fleet becomes small it is not economically sensible to retain them. Of course, the Boeing 707 is a bad aircraft in high cross-winds. It cannot land on and take off from small airstrips as easily as can some other aircraft, particularly the Boeing 727-100 series aircraft. So the RAAF will end up with a fleet that will include the Boeing 707 aircraft but we then will have to keep the BACIII aircraft because the Boeing 707s will not be able to do the jobs: that the BACH ls are now doing. The RAAF will have two Boeing 707 aircraft, and engines and spares for them. These aircraft will need to have new engines fitted to meet current American requirements. The aircraft we are getting from Qantas are not suitable for operation in America. 
I have already mentioned how expensive the BACIII aircraft are; but the cost of operating the Boeing 707 aircraft will be higher. I received a letter from the Department of Transport on 10 November last year. It cites the hourly cost of hiring aircraft for continuation and /or conversion training of departmental examiners of airmen. For a Boeing 707 aircraft the figure is $1,950 an hour and for a Boeing 727 aircraft it is $1,372 an hour. That is a difference of nearly $600 an hour. Even allowing for the fact that the RAAF might be able to make some fuel economies because it would not be paying duty, there is still a tremendous difference in cost between operating a Boeing 707 aircraft and operating a Boeing 727 aircraft. 
What is the cost of running a Boeing 707 aircraft? I received a letter from  Mr McLeay,  the Acting Minister for Defence, on 8 February 1 979. The last paragraph of that letter stated: 
In regard to your question of 7 November 1978 regarding the acquisition and operating costs of these aircraft, the Government has approved their acquisition at an estimated cost of $14.5m. Costs of operating and maintaining the aircraft, including personnel costs, are currently estimated at $4.5 m a year. You may wish to bear in mind, however, that a substantial proportion of the operating time of the aircraft is expected to be in Defence applications. 
What defence applications? There is nothing that the Boeing 707 aircraft can do that converted long-range Boeing 727 aircraft could not do. Honourable senators might be interested to read the rest of that letter, so I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 
Acting Minister for Defence Parliament House Canberra, ACT 2600 8 February 1979 
Dear  Senator Townley, 
On 7 and 14 November 1978, you asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister in the Senate for information concerning details of the Government's proposal for the acquisition of special aircraft to be used on overseas trips by the Prime Minister. 
You sought inter alia to have all correspondence that has taken place between the Government and the Air Force tabled in the Senate, and you requested assurances that no decision would be taken on the matter whilst the Parliament was in recess. 
Communications between the Government, the Department of Defence and the Air Force contain material which by common practice is confidential to the Government. Furthermore, the papers contain information on proposals made by various commercial organisations which has been supplied on a confidential basis. 
In view of these circumstances, therefore, and in the light of the information which has already been made public in the discussions which have taken place in the Parliament on this matter, I cannot agree to the papers being tabled. 
As to the timing of a decision, you will be aware that it has been announced that the Government has decided to buy two Boeing 707 aircraft from Qantas to fulfil the need for special aircraft for use by the Prime Minister on visits overseas. 
This decision was taken in the light of the strength of security advice to the Government that the Prime Minister could not indefinitely continue to put other airline passengers at risk while travelling overseas on Government business. Furthermore, the aircraft have a range of defence applications. 
In regard to your question of 7 November 1978 regarding the acquisition and operating costs of these aircraft, the Government has approved their acquisition at an estimated cost of $ 14.5m. Costs of operating and maintaining the aircraft, including personnel costs, are currently estimated at $4.5m a year. You may wish to bear in mind, however, that a substantial  proportion  of the operating time of the aircraft is expected to be in Defence applications. 
Yours sincerely, 
e. Mcleay 

 Senator M. Townley, Parliament House, Canberra, ACT 2600. 
-What does the cost of running these two aircraft at $4.5 m a year really respresent? It represents almost double the total salaries paid to honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives. What a scream there would be if we doubled our salaries. There would be a heck of a brawl. But that will be the cost of running these huge 160- seater aircraft to carry the average load of 1 1 people that the BAC1 1 1 aircraft have carried. They are noisy and will need to have new motors fitted at a cost of another $4.5m. There is also the cost of extensions to the airport at Canberra. They are going to cost more to run than the Boeing 727 aircraft. I seriously suggest that the purchase of these aircraft will not benefit the 
Government politically or economically. I cannot agree that it is a good idea to go ahead with their purchase, in spite of the security aspect which is mentioned in the letter which has just been incorporated in  Hansard. 
I hope that the Government will change its mind. Perhaps it can keep the $20m it will need to buy those aircraft and spend some of it on either extending the airport at Hobart or building the second bridge over the Derwent River for which it does not seem to be able to find the money immediately. Perhaps it could be spent on something  Senator McLaren  would like done in his electorate. I do not think that we can afford to spend this amount of money now and we cannot afford the political jet blast we will get every time these aircraft are seen. We should not get the idea that people will forget this type of thing, because they will not. They will remember it for a long time, and no doubt our opponents will remind the electors of it at election time. 
Why on earth do we need two Boeing 707 aircraft? Air Niugini flies approximately 4,000 hours a year with one Boeing 707 aircraft. It has schedules to keep to, and it seems to manage. So why must we have two? As far as I can see, there is absolutely no sensible reason for it. Two aircraft cannot be operated more cheaply than one. When one looks at the average loading that I have mentioned, the Government's proposal seems crazy. The reliability of the Boeing 707 aircraft also points to this proposal being unwise. Personally I would rather have the Prime Minister a few hours late for an appointment than spend an extra $ 10m to buy that second 707 now and an extra $2m a year to run it. All I am asking is that common sense prevail. On 27 November 1975, which sometimes seems a long time ago, a policy speech was made by the present Prime Minister in which he said: 
There will be an end to Government extravagances and excesses. 
There will be no international safaris by members of Parliament. The purpose of overseas trips will be subject to clear guidelines. Australia does not need a tourist as a Prime Minister. 
I ask that we do not go ahead with the madness of this purchase; that it be reconsidered. If anything the Government should buy a 727-100, increase the fuel capacities and fit bigger motors, because such a decision, I am sure, would be politically wise and would make economic sense. 
-by leave- I associate myself with the remarks that have been made so far concerning the death at a very early age of Eric Bessell. I knew Eric for many years. I believe that the Liberal Party in Tasmania owes him a great debt of gratitude. Remarks have been made regarding his political contributions and his contributions to the community. I always had the highest regard for Eric and for any of the political decisions that he made. I pass on my condolences to his wife, Rita, and to his relatives. 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Transport know whether the Department of Transport has received a copy of the study by the makers of the Airbus wide-bodied aircraft which compares the operating costs of those wide-bodied Airbus airliners with those of a Boeing 727-200 series aircraft? I believe the makers claim in that report that the introduction of their wide-bodied aircraft could lead to a reduction of about 30 to 40 per cent in domestic airline costs which obviously would lead to a consequent reduction in internal air fares. If the Department has received such a report, what stage has the departmental study of it reached? Will the Minister consider tabling the report and the Department's analysis of it in the Senate? Will he also ask the domestic airlines to submit at an early stage reasons for and against the introduction of wide-bodied aircraft? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
Is any of the amount of $ 1 10m which Tasmania is to be allowed to raise as loans from overseas to be used on a power scheme on the Lower Gordon River; if so: (a) how much is to be spent on that scheme; and (b) has a proposal for the Lower Gordon scheme been presented to the Tasmanian Parliament. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the report of  Sir Robert  Mark to the Minister for Administrative Services on the organisation of police resources in the Commonwealth area and on other related matters, which was presented to the Parliament, I think, on 6 April last year. The report states: 
The system of random security checks at airports throughout Australia seems to me of questionable value . . . This is so vulnerable an area that in the interests of passengers and air crew it is essential that consideration should be given to the establishment of security checks on every outgoing flight at the ten security sensitive Australian airports as a routine measure of high priority .. . It will be too late to contemplate this obviously necessary precaution after the first hijacking or bombing of an aircraft. 
I believe that there was also some reference to some terrorism in the area. 

 -Mr President, speaking to the point of order - 
I am not sure whether my question should be directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources or the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the recent spate of petrol shortages that have occurred in southern Tasmania over the past 6 months or so, which have created difficulties for motorists, petrol retailers and the like. As the shortages are due to the scheduling of tankers to Tasmania, will the appropriate Minister request that the oil companies pay more attention to sensible ship scheduling to help to keep Tasmania supplied with fuel? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it true that children with coeliac disease have been accepted as being eligible for the handicapped child's allowance of $15 a week when, in the absence of any other handicap, the only disadvantage they incur is the need to avoid wheat and rye products in their diet in order to enjoy normal health? Does the Minister agree that the philosophy behind the original legislation for the handicapped child's allowance was to recompense parents of children with handicaps such as cerebral palsy and mental retardation, whose care required both financial effort and effort of time and emotional stress? What is the rationale behind the decision to grant the allowance to children with coeliac disease? Will the Minister reconsider the position? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
1 ) What are the criteria under which Telecom grants: (a) a free telephone service; and (b) a partially free telephone service, to some of its employees. 
How many such services are currently operating in Tasmania. 
Have any of these services ever been connected to International Subscriber Dialling; if so: (a) who controls these phones; and (b) what positions do these persons hold. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. No doubt the Minister realises that air fares that do not allow stopovers between Australia and the United Kingdom mean that passengers have to travel up to 27 or 30 hours to reach their destinations. Is the Minister aware that such lengths of air travel can impose severe health risks on some people, particularly older persons? Is the Minister able to say how many travellers die each year within a short time after long flights? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Health to issue a statement containing ways of minimising health risks to air travellers who do travel for long periods? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence able to tell the Senate how many Royal Australian Air Force personnel will be trained to fly the VIP Boeing 707 aircraft? Will that training be done in Australia? Further, as it is difficult to uncover the actual cost of operating VIP aircraft, will the Minister ask the Minister for Defence to separate the accounts relating to VIP aircraft, detailing such things as running, maintenance, training and in-flight catering costs, from the rest of the RAAF's accounts so that the taxpayers can know exactly how much the VIP aircraft are costing them? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of a reply that I received recently from the Minister for Post and 
Telecommunications concerning the re-issue of book stamps, in which I was informed that, for economic and marketing reasons, the reintroduction of stamp booklets is not proposed at this stage. Is the Minister aware that in the United States of America the direct cost of selling stamps is 1 7c from each dollar received from the sale of stamps? Is the Minister able to say whether the cost of selling stamps in Australia is comparable with that in the United States? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to consider selling sheets of stamps at some discount to reduce the operating costs of this area of Australia Post? 
I am not sure whether my question should be directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources or the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I see that  Senator Durack  is the relevant Minister anyway. I preface my question by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that daylight saving was introduced into Tasmania many years ago for six months of the year during a period of power shortage due to a water shortage in the lakes of Tasmania. Has the Government examined the fuel saving that would be possible if permanent daylight saving were introduced throughout Australia? If not, will the Minister request that the matter be investigated? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee E on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The Committee is at present considering clause 37 and two amendments moved thereto by  Senator Evans. 
Is it the wish of the Committee that these two proposed new clauses be taken together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Page 33, after clause 92, insert the following new clauses: 92a. The Organization shall cause to be kept proper accounts and records of the transactions and affairs of the Organization and shall do all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of its moneys are correctly made and properly authorised and that proper control is maintained over the assets of or in the custody of the Organization and over the incurring of liabilities by the Organization. 92b. ( I ) The Auditor-General shall inspect and audit the accounts and records of financial transactions of the Organisation and records relating to assets of, or in the custody of the Organisation and shall forthwith draw the attention of the Minister to any irregularity disclosed by the inspection and audit that is, in the opinion of the Auditor-General, of sufficient importance to justify his doing so. 
The Auditor-General may, in his discretion, dispense with all or any part of the detailed inspection and audit of any accounts or records referred to in sub-section ( I ). 
The Auditor-General shall, at least once in each year, report to the Minister the results of the inspection and audit carried out under sub-section ( 1 ). 
The Auditor-General is entitled at times agreed between the Director-General and the Auditor-General, but at least once a year, to full and free access to all accounts, records, documents and papers of the Organization relating directly or indirectly to the receipt or payment of moneys by the Organization or to the acquisition, receipt, custody or disposal of assets by the Organization. 
The Auditor-General may inspect any such accounts, records, documents or papers. 
The Auditor-General may require any person to enable him to have access to such information in the possession of the person or to which the person has access, as the Auditor-General considers necessary for the purposes of the functions of the Auditor-General under this Act and the person shall comply with the requirement. 
A person who contravenes sub-section (6) is guilty of an offence punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $200.'. 
These proposed new clauses relate to the financial accountability of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. This is a matter on which the legislation stands completely silent. Indeed, there is a long tradition of silence so far as the funding of ASIO is concerned. The most that this Parliament is ever told about the money that it raised for ASIO and spent by ASIO is the one-line appropriation that appears in the Appropriation Bills each year and occasionally in the supplementary appropriations which follow thereafter. It has been the practice not to answer any questions in Estimates Committees or on the floor of this chamber in relation to the detailed breakup of that expenditure or to answer any questions relating to the propriety with which that money has been spent within the categories for which it is allocated. 
Accordingly, the Opposition has moved these two amendments which together provide for a proper system of financial accountability, a condition which one would have thought would have been beyond argument, given the experience in particular in recent years in the United States of America in relation to the activities and operations of both the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, whose extravagant misbehaviour very often has been attributed in the past to the quite uncontrolled way in which particular budgets or sections of budgets were able to be voted and spent by those organisations without any effective kind of congressional or other oversight. 
The kind of oversight that the Opposition is seeking to provide in these amendments is not a congressional or parliamentary oversight in the way that operates in the United States or in our own system in respect of other departments. We acknowledge that here, as elsewhere, there is something especially sensitive about security matters which justifies by and large much of the detail being kept from the public domain. It is not to say all financial details should be kept from the public domain. We hope that in the annual reports and other forms of public accountability that we are seeking to provide for, some provision will be made for a more detailed account of the way in which the Organisation is spending its money to be given. We are talking here specifically about the detailed analysis of the Organisation's accounts, methods of accounting, cost control and expenditure control adopted by the Organisation, and methods of ensuring that the Organisation observes propriety and constraint in the way it operates its finances. The elements of the amendments moved by the Opposition, accordingly, are as follows: In the proposed new clause 92A, we simply urge the insertion of a clause of the kind which is quite familiar in statutory authorities generally, providing simply that the Organisation shall cause to be kept proper accounts and records. Clause 92B is a more elaborate provision dealing with the auditing of those accounts and records by the Auditor-General. What is provided here is that the Auditor-General shall inspect and audit all the accounts of ASIO; that he shall report upon his inspection and audit to the Minister; that in exercising those powers and inspection and report, he shall have whatever necessary powers of access and inspection as are appropriate to enable him to exercise his function. 
It will be noted that in this provision there is not any specific requirement that there be direct reporting to Parliament either by the Organisation itself or by the Auditor-General. To that extent we are conceding the legitimacy, as I foreshadowed a moment ago, of some variation from the normal practice of parliamentary control of the details of expenditure. However, what the Opposition does insist upon, and what is entirely lacking from the present arrangement, is a role for the independent, expert AuditorGeneral, a man whose honesty and integrity ought to be throroughly beyond dispute in this 
Parliament, the notion being that the AuditorGeneral is an independent statutory officer of the Crown, and the existence of his role as an auditor of these accounts will ensure that there is no misappropriation, no malfunctioning, no misexpenditure of ASIO moneys in the way that might well have happened in the past because we simply did not know what was going on. 
It will be appreciated that this financial accountability is just another one of those different kinds of heads of accountability which we have been at pains to urge all though this debate. It is that five-part accountability system that involves accountability to the Minister; accountability in a sense to the Leader of the Opposition; accountability to Parliament in the form of an annual report; and accountability in the form of a regular judicial audit. Each one of those elements in this accountability system is something we have been pressing as a necessary part of an integrated approach to the whole question of ensuring that ASIO does not go beyond its charter. 
It becomes the more necessary that there be some provision of the kind that the Opposition is proposing to insert by these amendments when we consider that earlier this session this Parliament debated the Audit Amendment Bill 1979, a piece of legislation which incorporated a new section 70D into the Audit Act. This is a section which, quite extraordinarily on its face, had the effect of making provision for exempt accounts either of the whole of the department or organisation or of part of such a department's or organisation's operations. In brief, what is provided for in the new section 70D of the Audit Act is that the appropriate Minister can certify as exempt, as being contrary to the national interest, either the whole or a particular part of the accounts of any organisation. Of course 'organisation' is defined in such a way as to include, among other statutory authorities and departments, ASIO itself. There is now a situation where there is express statutory authority for Ministers- in this case no doubt the Attorney-General- certifying as exempt from the Auditor-General's scrutiny, at his pleasure, either the whole of ASIO's accounts or some particular part of them. 
In the course of the debate in which  Senator Webster  led on behalf of the Government- this is a matter which occasioned some publicity when this emerged on 1 March this year- it emerged, indeed it was expressly acknowledged by  Senator Webster,  that this particular amendment incorporating section 70D of the Audit Act was designed and had the effect of correcting what had been a long standing illegality in the operation of ASIO's accounts. It was openly acknowledged by the Government Minister on that occasion that the way in which ASIO 's accounts had been audited for the last 30 years- ever since 1949- had been illegal in the sense that the auditing system had not complied with any specific exemption in the provisions in the Audit Act as it stood for the whole of that period and that there was no statutory basis or authority for the way in which those accounts had been dealt with. 
The way the ASIO accounts had been dealt with over the whole of that 30-year period also emerged in the course of that debate when reference was made to an explanation which had been given to the Parliament back in 1 97 1 in the course of an Estimates Committee controversy over ASIO accounts. Regrettably it was not a matter that seems to have been taken any further in the Parliament as a whole. Certainly the point was not taken in 1971 that the procedure then explained was illegal in the sense that there was no compliance with the Audit Act. The situation described in 1971 in the Estimates Committee proceedings of that time was reported at page 2551 of Senate  Hansard  of 8 December 1971. The explanation for the auditing of ASIO's accounts was in the following terms: 
The accounts of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation arc audited by the Auditor-General under arrangements agreed in 1949 between the then Prime Minister and Treasurer and the then Auditor-General. These arrangements provide for a normal audit of transactions and include as part of that audit the provision of a certificate by the Director-General of Security in respect  of a   minor portion of the expenditure and by the responsible Minister certifying that that portion of the expenditure was properly made in the interests ofthe Public Service. 
The Auditor-General accepts these certificates in completion of his audits. This arrangement is patterned on the British practice, dating back to the late 1 9th Century.  lt might have been patterned on British practice, but it was not patterned on Australian law. In 1979 the Australian Government got around to correcting the legal situation. In correcting the situation, the Government has created a situation which has made the situation even more obscure than it was before. The statutory authority which the Minister now has under the Audit Act goes not only to certifying and keeping immune from the Auditor-General 's scrutiny a 'minor portion ' of ASIO's accounts, which appears to have been the practice as described at least up to 1971, but also to exempting, if he regards it as in the national interest to do so, the whole of ASIO's accounts from the Auditor-General 's scrutiny. 
I do not know whether the Attorney is going to tell us tonight- I would be interested to know the answer- whether he is now certifying or does propose to certify under this legislation the whole of ASIO's accounts, only some minor proportion of them or none at all. We just do not know. All we know is that the Minister, by statutory authority, now, with the stroke of his pen, can exempt the whole of ASIO's accounts from any scrutiny by the independent Auditor-General. The situation then is that in principle it surely must be accepted that ASIO's accounts ought to be the subject of some proper scrutiny by an independent public officer namely, the Auditor-General himself. The United States experience and everything else have shown us the importance of that principle being observed. 
The only possible ground on which the Opposition can see some justification for ASIO's accounts not being thrown open for the AuditorGeneral 's scrutiny is some belief that the Auditor-General is an untrustworthy individual and that he, presumably like the Leader of the Opposition whom we discussed in the last amendment, cannot be trusted to preserve security and confidentiality in respect to what they learn from his scrutiny of those accounts. I would have thought that just as the last amendment was offensive to the Leader of the Opposition so the Government's attitude here is to be regarded as offensive to the position of the AuditorGeneral. That position ought to be unconscionable not only to the Opposition and the Australian people but also to  Senator Missen. 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee E and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, relates to the proposal to provide air services between Tasmania and New Zealand. Is it true that the decision to allow Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia to fly from Hobart to New Zealand is now being held up only by the doginthemanger attitude of Qantas Airways Ltd, in that it does not want to lose any international routes, even those that it does not have suitable equipment to service? If not, when will an announcement be made on when the service will commence? 
I direct my question to you,  Mr President.  I preface it by saying that no doubt you have noticed the very much better lighting level in the Senate today due to the presence of television cameras. Could you ascertain how much power is used by the television lights here today and investigate the possibility of permanently increasing the light level in this chamber so that we can see our colleagues a little better? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) How much has been spent at overseas posts of the Department of Foreign Affairs in extending hospitality to the  Chairman  of Qantas? 
When were such expenses incurred and what are the details of the expenditure on each occasion? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health had her attention drawn to an article in the  Mercury  of Saturday, 26 May, in which the Tasmanian Minister for Health is reported as having stated that 500 people could lose their jobs from within the State hospitals system. Does the Minister agree with the stated assumption by the Tasmanian Minister that those people will lose their jobs because of the mini-Budget announced on Thursday night? Rather, should the Tasmanian Minister not blame his own inefficiency? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It refers to jet aircraft operating in Australia. As it is quite common for one manufacturer to make similar parts for different aircraft manufacturers, is the Minister able to say whether the bolts and the engine mounting components that are used in 727, DC9 and Jumbo aircraft operated by Australian airlines are made by the same manufacturer that made the bolts and engine mounting units for the ill-fated DC 10 American Airlines aircraft that crashed a few day ago near 
Chicago airport? If he is not able to answer that question at this stage, could he find out the information and advise the Senate as soon as possible? Is he able to advise whether any check has been made of Australian aircraft engine mountings since the American Airlines DC 10 crashed? 
I am pleased to see in the Chair, at a time when I intend to question a few of the costs incurred by the Department of Transport, a senator who knows something about transport, particularly the aviation aspects.  (Quorum formed).  I have before me a document headed 'Department of Transport' which sets out the hours flown by, and the total cost of, departmental aircraft during the period July 1978 to March 1 979 inclusive. To save the time of the Committee I will seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard.  It is a simple document and easily incorporated. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197905305_60_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197905305_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Committee. An examination of the document will show that the Department of Transport has, amongst many aircraft, three F28 aircraft. The F28 is a twinengine jet which I believe is similar to those operated by MacRobertson-Miller Airline Services in Western Australia which covers quite a  large part of that State. The area covered represents a large part of this country. For those nine months, the three aircraft were flown for 447, 453 and 496 hours respectively, or an average of 470 hours for each aircraft. That would amount to approximately 650 or 660 hours a year. That seems to be a very low rate of utilisation for aircraft that are as expensive to operate and own as are the F28s. 

-Yes, but one should be able to get from an aircraft more than 650 hours service. I cannot see why we need the number of aircraft that we have in the Department of Transport. Honourable senators may think I have a thing about the number of aircraft that are being operated around this country by the Government in one area or another. 
I will deal with that tomorrow, not today. I am advised that the F28s are used for checking out things such as navigation aids. I suppose some of that must be done during the day and some at night. I would question why we need three aircraft for this work. Perhaps we need two, but why three? I ask that question because, if we must have three, we must have three sets of crews. I would like to know just how many people constitute a crew of a F28 when it is engaged in checking, and the number of crews that are associated with the F28s. I would also ask whether any use is made of the F28s for VIP purposes. If that is so, how many hours were devoted to that use during the last 12 months or, if it is easier to obtain, during the last nine months- the first nine months of this financial year? How much was recouped and on what basis was that money recouped from the people who used the F-28s as VIP aircraft? I would like to know how much an hour it costs to operate one of these aircraft and whether it is anticipated that that will rise a great deal during the coming year due to increased fuel prices. 
Are any VIP aircraft given special treatment on approach or departure from airports that are controlled by the Department of Transport? In other words, if a VIP aircraft is en route to, say, Melbourne from Canberra, are regular transport operators made to hold so that the VIP aircraft can get special treatment? If there is special treatment- I would be surprised if there is not- I would like to have the suggestions that are made to those in control of the aircraft in the air either incorporated in  Hansard  or tabled in the Senate. Next, I ask whether the Department of Transport had anything to do with the choosing and purchase of the new Boeing 707 jet aircraft that are to be used by the VIP fleet. What is the Department's attitude to the engines that are presently in those 707 aircraft? Is the Department happy with the noise and pollution outputs of those engines? 
I have plenty of time if honourable senators would like me to go into that. 
-With the approval of the Committee, I would quickly like to go into what aircraft I would like to see used as VIP aircraft. 
This is not the time to go into that matter. If honourable senators wish, I will proceed with it. I have quite a file on the matter and would be only too pleased to answer that question. 
1 do not believe that the honourable senator should have to put anything on notice. That is something that Ministers usually have to do. The Department of Defence is attending later; perhaps 1 can raise the matter then. I was advised that the aircraft originally suggested to the Department of Transport or to the Department of Defence were long range Boeing 727-100 series aircraft which could have been serviced by the commercial airlines, Ansett Airlines of Australia or Trans-Australia Airlines. Those aircraft would have had the over-water range, with one motor out and depressurisation, and they would not have created a situation of a fleet - 
-They would not then have created the situation where we have a VIP fleet that has two Boeing 707 aircraft, two BAC1 1 1 aircraft, three Mystere jets and two HS 748 aircraft. That is a crazy set-up of aircraft ownership for anybody, whether it be a government or private organisation.  Senator Lewis  asks whether I think that the Royal Australian Air Force should have its motors serviced by a private company, either TAA or Ansett. I say certainly. I ask: Who will fix the motors of the Boeing 707 aircraft we have now? Will it be the Air Force, or Qantas? Who will do the training, and who will own the simulator? 
One of my questions was to be whether Qantas will retain the simulator or sell it to the Air Force. 
-That was unfixable and it was not in Hobart. 1 am running out of time and I know honourable senators will not give me an extension. I now move on to the security of airports. I refer to the report to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  on the organisation of police resources in the Commonwealth area and other related matters. Page 1 3 refers to the security of airports and suggests that the system of random security that we now have in Australia is not good enough. When is the security in this country to be made so that anybody with an IQ greater than 50 can be detected by the system? Who in their right mind would walk up to, usually, two ladies and one gentleman checking people at an airport, if they have a hand grenade or gun in their pocket? 
Surely if they want to get on a flight they will wait until those people are not there. All we are doing at the moment is wasting money hand over fist with a security system that cannot possibly work. The same section suggests rather obtusely that we buy VIP aircraft to subtract our Prime Minister and other important people from the mainstream of passengers. There is this worry about the security of Australian airports. When will a suitable system be brought in that will make sure that anybody who wants to hijack an aircraft will not be able to? For the benefit of the Senate, I seek leave to incorporate section 20 of that report. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The system of random security checks at airports throughout Australia seems to me of questionable value. Notwithstanding that Australia has been happily free from hijacking or bombing incidents in relation to aircraft, other nations have found this to be a particular worrying threat. Throughout the United States of America and Great Britain security checks are maintained al airports as a matter of routine and are strictly enforced. This is so vulnerable an area that in the interests of passengers and air crew it is essential that consideration should be given to the establishment of security checks on every outgoing flight at the ten security sensitive Australian airports as a routine measure of high priority. Consideration should also bc given to the extension of this procedure to other airports in the light of threat assessment. lt is, of course, assumed that chief police officers bearing the ultimate responsibility for dealing with the security at airports will liaise continually with the civil authorities responsible for their administration. The cost will not be great in comparison, for example, with that borne by the United States and could, of course, quite properly be borne by the passengers, lt will be too late to contemplate this obviously necessary precaution after the first hijacking or bombing of an aircraft. In a country so dependent on air travel internally and externally the use of VIP aircraft which subtract attractive targets from the mainstream of passengers has much to commend it as a counter terrorist measure. 
I realise that some of the questions that I have asked may not be able to be answered immediately. If they are not immediately answerable, 1 would be grateful to have advice on them reasonably soon. 
I have a couple of further questions relating to the purchase of VIP aircraft. I do not think 
I would be consistent unless I asked these questions of the Department of Defence. I will try and keep my questions brief because of the time of night. Let me say at the outset that I do not believe that the Royal Australian Air Force would for one minute have asked for Boeing 707 aircraft if they were not for VIP use. It is said that the intention is that 80 per cent of the use will be for other than VIP use. I do not believe for one minute that we would have bought either of the two Boeings had it not been the intention to have them available primarily for VIP purposes. I am not entirely against an aircraft for overseas use by the Prime Minister, but I have not yet received a satisfactory explanation as to why two aircraft were chosen. 
I believe that it is true that the RAAF asked for a long range 727-100 series before it asked for 707s. I ask whether that is correct. I would like to ask for the cost of operating the 707s. Does the RAAF intend to change the motorsand if so, at what cost to alleviate the noise and pollution that the present motors cause? If it is intended that 80 per cent of the use will be RAAF use, a figure which incidentally I doubt, how many hours a year is it intended that the RAAF will use the aircraft? In other words, how many hours a year will these aircraft be in the air? I would like an answer to those questions before I ask any more. 
I had asked that the number of hours per year that the aircraft would be used be mentioned. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is, unfortunately, unable to give that information. If I presume that the number of hours for each aircraft each year will be 700, the total number of hours for the two aircraft will be 1,400. If 20 per cent of that time is used for international travel it will mean that seven trips will be made around the world each year by these aircraft. 
In total. I thank the honourable senator. Twenty per cent of the time divided between two aircraft will mean that there will be seven trips around the world each year. That seems to be more trips than the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or anybody else would make overseas. Can the Minister comment on that? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. No doubt he is aware that the Senate will be dealing later today with a Bill which provides for a loan to Qantas Airways Limited to buy another Boeing 747 aircraft. Is the Minister aware that the 2 per cent excise duty which will be applied on imports following the mini-Budget will not apply to aircraft bought by Qantas but will apply to aircraft, engines and parts bought by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia and that even 2 per cent of such large amounts is a considerable sum? Is the Minister aware that airlines already pay heavy navigation charges and heavy fuel duties and that this new 2 per cent impost on aircraft and parts comes at a time when the airlines are in a cost squeeze? Will the Minister consider amending the Bill to exempt large aircraft, engines and spare parts from the 2 per cent impost? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, is prompted by the editorial in the  Mercury  of yesterday, which is headed 'Meat in the Sandwich'. Is the Minister aware that the proposed increase from $ 1 3.70 to $ 1 7 in the flag fall component of domestic air fares will effectively mean that Tasmanians flying to Melbourne, particularly on the shorter routes, will be subsidising passengers flying from Melbourne to Perth because the actual fare per passenger kilometre will be greater across Bass Strait than across the Nullarbor? As Tasmanians are so dependent on air travel, will the Minister take up with the Department of Transport and the domestic operators the possibility of applying a lower flag fall in relation to Tasmania than will apply in relation to the rest of Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 June 1 979: 
1 ) Does the Australian Survey Office plan to purchase new survey mapping or aerial photography equipment during 1979-80; if. so: (a) how does the estimated expenditure compare with expenditure in 1978-79; and (b) are there no similar facilities available from private surveying and mapping consultants. 
Will an expansion of departmental facilities result in the provision of facilities which are currently available from small business firms in the surveying and mapping industry. 
What action is proposed to ensure that any reduction in the funding of the Australian Survey Office does not restrict the engagement of private survey consultants by the office. 
What action is proposed to ensure that any reduction in the funding of the Australian Survey Office does not restrict the engagement of private survey consultants by the office. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. No doubt the Minister realises that the cost of fuel is a matter of concern to most car owners. Unfortunately, the attitude of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries seems to indicate that this cost will continue to increase in years to come. No doubt the Minister is aware that considerable fuel is wasted by cars idling at traffic lights. Does the Minister realise that in countries such as Canada and the United States, where there are a great many more cars than in Australia, cars are allowed to turn to the right through a red traffic light after coming to a stop if the way is clear. Will the Minister suggest to those in charge of traffic in the Australian Capital Territory that they allow left turns after stopping at red traffic lights if the way is clear, as an example to the rest of Australia? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health by saying that in spite of the fact that Press coverage would indicate otherwise, no doubt the Minister realises that of all Australia's drug problems alchohol is by far the most serious one. Therefore, I ask: Will the Minister recommend to the Minister for Health that the States be requested to see that the percentage of alcohol in beers is printed on the labels of the containers, as is done already in such countries as Canada? I also ask the Minister to suggest to the Government that, in the interests of health, there be a reduction in the excise on low alcoholic beers so that companies will be encouraged to produce and promote those beers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) Does the operation of fully laden Qantas 747 Bs to Port Moresby cause unreasonable difficulties for the local authorities, due to inadequate terminal facilities. 
) Does the delivery of such loads result in real difficulties when distributing these passengers to outer areas because of the limited domestic fleet available to the local operator. 
Has the Minister noted the criticism which has been raised in Port Moresby at the decreased frequencies serving that area because of the concentrated Qantas 747B loads. 
Would the operation of the service by the Australian domestic operators with B727 aircraft give a better spread of frequencies and deliver loads more in keeping with the terminal facilities and domestic airline fleet. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs whether the Minister for Home Affairs today announced the composition of the Australia Day 
Council for 1 980. Is it a fact that the Council includes representatives of every State and Territory except Tasmania? Does the Minister believe that Tasmanians regard Australia Day as a foreign holiday and therefore do not celebrate it? If the Minister is not suffering from such delusions, will he ask the Minister for Home Affairs to take immediate action to rectify this serious omission? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware of suggestions that have emanated from certain quarters lately that the lc and 2c coins be dropped from the Australian coinage. No doubt he is aware also of questions that I have asked regarding the minting of a $ 1 coin. I ask: Is the Government considering redesigning all of Australia 's coins with a view to reduction in size and also the issuing of coins of higher value? If not, why not? I am sure that most people in Australia would agree that our present coins are much too large and tend to wear out one's pockets much more rapidly than they should. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister able to say what the criteria are for the establishment in any area of public telephones? If not, at some stage will he advise the Senate of those criteria? Is a smaller, less expensive public telephone under design to cut the cost of installations? If not, will the Minister ask Telecom Australia to carry out such an investigation so that Australia may be better served with public telephones, as are most other countries? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It relates to Thai International Airlines. Is it true that landing rights into Melbourne were granted in principle to Thai International Airlines on 1 April this year? Is it true that Thai International Airlines were ready to start a service on that date? Is it also true that Thai International Airlines is the only Association of South East Asian Nations international airline not yet allowed to operate into Melbourne? Is the Minister able to say why it was not allowed to proceed with its landing rights? When will the airline be allowed to operate into Melbourne? Is the real reason for this obvious discrimination by the Department of Transport a way of  forcing  the acceptance of a new air fare structure in the ASEAN region? Could this be a contributing factor to Australia's falling acceptance amongst its ASEAN neighbours? 
-by leave- I was in the chair at the time of the incident that is the subject of that report. I am pleased to see that the Committee of Privileges brought in the report that it has. I hope that on similar occasions honourable senators will not test either my patience or my ruling on similar matters. I hope that all Acting  Deputy  Presidents will always help to enforce the Standing Orders in this chamber in such a way that we will present to anybody who is visiting us or listening to us over the air a picture of a chamber that earns respect, unlike the other House, as today's  Age  points out. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to a story in yesterday 's  Australian  that showed that Telecom is apparently determined to price telegrams out of existence. Have operators been told to take customers' money for messenger delivery of a telegram but not to have that telegram delivered by hand except as a last resort? Will the Minister agree that on occasions people, for all sorts of reasons, want telegrams delivered? Is it not unethical, if not downright dishonest, to take the action that Telecom has told its operators to take? 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people. 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems. 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire. 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act. 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways. 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory by saying that the Minister will be no doubt aware that daylight saving in recent times was originally introduced into Tasmania for six months during a period of extreme water shortage and consequent power shortage in that State. The aim of daylight saving was to save power. Will the Minister ask the Minister for the Capital Territory to examine the possibility of extending the date at which the Australian Capital Territory returns from daylight saving time to standard time with a view both to saving power, and consquently fuel, and to setting an example to the other daylight saving States, to extend the period of daylight saving, which obviously from a scientific point of view we should be enjoying at this time? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, relates to the reply he gave to me at the end of Question Time yesterday about public telephones. In that reply, 

 Senator Chaney gave information that he had received from  Mr Staley  regarding the criteria that Telecom Australia uses when deciding to install a coin telephone in an area and indicated that there was a need to ensure a reasonable revenue return to offset the capital and annual costs involved. Can the Minister expound on that reply, because it really does not give us much information, and indicate how much Telecom regards as a reasonable return and whether any telephones are installed as a service in an area even if they run at a loss? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee E on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1979- 80 and the departmental expenditure under the Advance to the Minister for Finance 1978- 79 together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that in some countries persons arriving from other countries can make duty free purchases after their arrival but of course prior to declaration of Customs. As an attempt to have Australians returning to this country spend their money in Australia, will the Minister examine whether such a practice could be worked out to be feasible in Australia and, perhaps I should add, particularly in Tasmania when the Hobart-Christchurch air link commences? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Whilst recognising that the labelling of food containers is largely a State matter, is the Minister able to say whether any action is being taken to have food and drink manufacturers throughout Australia list ingredients on the labels of food and drink containers so that those people who are interested in the contents of the food that they eat can have some idea of the principal ingredients and things such as preservatives and so on? 
-by leave -I table additional information received by Estimates Committee E and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and I ask: Is it true that Qantas Airways Ltd is considering buying one or more special purpose 747 aircraft which are designed for long range flights, such as the one from Sydney to Los Angeles direct, and which, incidentally, have a high rate of fuel consumption? Is it true that Qantas wants these 747SP aircraft to use on short haul regional routes to places such as Wellington and Jakarta? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to instruct the Bureau of Transport Economics to study whether the expenditure by Qantas of perhaps $ 100m on the 747SP aircraft will benefit the travelling public of Australia as much as it would be benefited if the Australian domestic airlines were allowed to serve the short regional routes and therefore have better utilisation of their domestic equipment, which would help keep down local air fares? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry by saying that no doubt the Minister has heard of an outbreak of a disease in northern Tasmania that is affecting both pigs and cattle. Can the Minister give the Senate uptodate information relating to this disease and its possible implications for Australia? 
1 preface my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer by noting that no doubt the Minister is aware of advertisements that Australia Post has run recently in Tasmania to promote the collecting of stamps- no doubt because it realises that philatelists contribute much to the Treasury's coffers without much effort on its part. With that in mind, I ask: When will the Treasurer insist that the Treasury mint coins of $1 and $2 denominations so that those who collect coins also may contribute to the Treasury's coffers and so that such coins can replace the $ 1 note, which is now quite out of date, and perhaps be used in vending machines? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she saw an article in the  Australian  yesterday which stated in part that the cost to health funds of supplying to the Federal Government statistics and details of each medical service is a main reason for the high cost of health insurance? Is it true that the average cost of supplying the information is $2.40 a service, which therefore amounted to a cost of some $165m to the health funds during the last financial year? If that is true, will the Minister suggest to the Department of Health an examination of its requirements with a view to reducing the cost of health insurance? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, without notice, on 8 May 1979: 
I preface my question by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that daylight saving was introduced into Tasmania many years ago for six months of the year during a period of power shortage due to a water shortage in the lakes of Tasmania. Has the Government examined the fuel saving that would be possible if permanent daylight saving were introduced throughout Australia? If not, will the Minister request that the matter be investigated? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that air fares are based upon a flag fall component of some $ 1 7 and then a certain rate per kilometre flown. If someone flies from, say, Hobart to Sydney in one day he has to pay only one flag fall even though his journey is in two segments. Is the Minister aware that if somebody flies from, say, Hobart to Melbourne and returns in one day he has to pay two flag falls? Will the Minister examine the possibility of having this anomaly removed? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I note an article in the  Australian  today that states that over the last two years the Department of Social Security has managed to get back $24m that was wrongly claimed by certain recipients. Is it true that under certain circumstances some persons receiving unemployment benefit can also be receiving allowances under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme and yet Department of Social Security officers are not able to crack down on the racket by cross matching computer lists from the Department of Social Security and the Department of Education because of confidentiality sections of the Social Services Act? If so, are there any plans to overcome the situation? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface it by saying that no doubt the Minister is aware that in most Australian States persons are able to obtain driving licences at about the same age as they are allowed into hotels. The result is that many young people learn to drive at the same time as they are learning to handle alcohol, often with fatal results. As reports show that small motor assisted bicycles called mopeds, with a top speed of about 50 kilometres per hour, are in fact safer than ordinary bicycles, will the Minister ask the Minister in charge of transport in the Australian Capital Territory to set an example for the rest of the country by abolishing the need for the registration of such machines, which are presently classed as motor cycles, and also reducing the age at which people are allowed to drive them, as is done in many other countries? This would be in the interests of allowing young people to gain valuable road experience prior to their reaching drinking age and, of course, would be useful in saving fuel? 
I wish to speak briefly on one or two matters that relate to clause 8. We are discussing, of course, a proposed increase in air navigation charges. I understand that according to the airlines agreement under which the two major domestic airlines operate the rate of increase in air navigation charges is limited to 10 per cent per annum, yet last year the airlines agreed to a 15 per cent increase and this year they have again agreed to waive their rights in order to permit a 25 per cent increase, as proposed by the Government. I feel that the airlines have little option but to agree with what the Government requests, irrespective of the agreement. If they did not the Government might not approve an air fare increase. They could be sent into a position of insolvency. We heard earlier that an airline which is making money is a safe airline. 1 would not like to see an airline running short of funds. I rise at this stage mainly to ask for the incorporation of a letter dated 16 November 1979, which I received from the First Assistant Secretary, Finance and Commercial, Department of Transport. I have shown it to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  and I seek leave to incorporate that letter in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Dear  Senator Townley, 
Further to the information supplied to your Committee on a number of subjects, I am now able to provide you with the details you sought on cost recovery achieved from the aviation industry during the past seven years. 
I must apologise for the time taken to respond. This is due to the work, including investigations associated with the allocation of rentals held in trust to the years to which they related, together with an adjustment resulting from the very recent Ministerial decision to refund some part of rentals collected in respect of 1 975-76. 
You will recall that a substantial amount of Terminal Rental receipts have been held in trust pending a Ministerial determination on the amounts, if any, to be refunded. Whilst not legally obligated to do so, the Minister gave an undertaking to review the situation following a High Court decision in 1977 after several cases dated back to 1976. In the event a total refund of the order of $ 1.08 1 m is likely. 
The following table represents the cost recovery situation for the past seven years based on the standard method of calculation of  actual  costs and actual credits to revenue. 
<para pgwide="yes">When adjusted to account distribution of airport rentals held in trust, to the years to which they fell due, the recovery rate varies as follows: 

<graphic href="083232197911192_54_8.jpg"></graphic>

The reduced rate for 1975-76 is due to the fact that all amounts to be repaid were collected and credited to revenue in that year. 
YOU may be interested on the following additional information: 
The costs over the period concerned show an increase of approximately 1 10 per cent (revenue 160 percent). 
During the same period the C.P.I. has increased by 101 per cent. The provision for superannuation has been increased from 1 1 per cent to 25 per cent of salaries, this together with the increase in the general level of wages has resulted in an escalation in this provision from $5.3 1 3m in 1972-73 to $24.328m in 1978-79. 
As a result of increases in asset values, stemming to some extent from investment decisions taken before the period in review, and the increased interest rates, the annual interest bill has risen from $ 1 8.4m to $32. 8m while depreciation provision has risen from $12.1m to $17.7m 
Some idea of the increase in the task performed over the same period may be gained from the increased performance of Australian domestic and international airlines. 
Passengers embarked by the two domestics and Qantas increased from 7.795 million to 12.122 million (55 per cent) and passenger kilometres performed rose from 1 1,30 1 ,08 1 million to 20,552,790 million (82 per cent). 
The approximate recovery rates quoted by  Mr O  'Halloran during the Senate Estimates Committee hearing were based on preliminary details of attributable receipts and expenditure for 1 978-79 and assumed that the accumulated terminal rentals held in trust would be credited to 1978-79. 
I trust that this information is satisfactory to you. 
I thank the Senate. If honourable senators look at that letter, they will see that it shows the costs and revenues and therefore the deficit with regard to air navigation charges. It also shows the percentage recovery in the financial years from 1972-73 through to 1978-79. 1 think that it would be of use if I detail the way in which air navigation charges have increased in those years. In the financial year 1972-73, there was a 5 per cent increase in all sectors. In the financial year 1973-74, there was a 10 per cent increase in all sectors plus a 100 per cent increase for general aviation aircraft weighing 9,000 kilograms or less and a 300 per cent increase for general aviation aircraft greater than 9,000 kilograms. For the financial year 1974-75, we saw a 1 5 per cent increase in air navigation 

<graphic href="083232197911192_54_8.jpg"></graphic>

charges in all sectors and a 50 per cent increase on general aviation aircraft weighing less than 9,000 kilograms. The financial year 1975-76 snowed a 1 5 per cent increase on all sectors, as did the year 1976-77. 
For some reason there was no increase for the financial year 1977-78. For the financial year 1978-79, we saw an increase of 15 per cent in the domestic airline charges only. That means that the international airlines have not had an increase requested of them for some three years although the domestics have. In the coming year, we have a 25 per cent domestic increase only and a 20 per cent increase in general aviation costs. When one looks at those figures in relation to the figures in the letter one will see that in the last year the costs of the Department were $243. 6m. The revenue was just under $150m and, therefore, the deficit was just on $94m, with a percentage recovery of 6 1 .5 per cent. The Budget Speech stated that this matter would bring in about $8m in a full year. We are looking for some $94m which we are told will be recovered in the next three years. That means that we will see fairly sizable increases in air navigation charges in the next two years if we have to get $94m and we have only got $8m, as said in the Budget. I believe the sum of $ 1 1 .6m was mentioned in the Minister's speech. I do not know why there is a difference. It will need sizable increases during the next couple of years in air navigation charges to correct the matter. I am worried that these air navigation charges will be putting increasing costs on the very safe and very efficient transport system that we have. 
I would be grateful if the Minister could tell me how much extra money will come from general aviation this year and how much extra will come from the domestics? I would like to know what the present loss is in the general aviation sector. I do not know whether the Minister has this information available. If not, he could get it for me. The letter from the Department of Transport states that passengers embarked by the two domestics and Qantas increased from just under 8 million to just over 12 million but that period is not stated. I presume it refers to the period from 1972-73 to 1978-79. There is one other point in the letter that I think we should look at when we talk about the operating costs of the Department of Transport; that is the cost to the traveller of the superannuation payments that is now beginning to show up. I am sure that if  Senator Wright  were here he would hit the roof if he read this. The letter states: 
The provision for superannuation has increased from 1 1 per cent to 23 per cent of salaries, this together with the increase in the general level of wages has resulted in an escalation in this provision from $5.313m in 1972-73 to $24.328m in 1978-79. 
I make no comment on that other than to ask: Will the country eventually be able to afford the kind of superannuation that is imposing those kinds of increases within a Department and therefore on the taxpayer or the traveller? I wish to make just one other point. I think it is time that the Department of Transport could tell us which sectors are already contributing 100 per cent. I think the Department should be able to say, for instance, whether the section from Hobart to Melbourne is contributing 100 per cent or more. It may not be contributing 100 per cent yet, but if it is, why should that section be asked to subsidise an area, say, from Perth to Broome in Western Australia, which I do not think would ever get close to having 100 per cent recovery? In other words, I think that some of the air navigation charges should be put down to the Department of National Development. 
Perhaps some should go to the Department of Defence. There is some argument that defence aircraft allow commercial aircraft to use some of their fields and vice versa, so there may be a balancing effect there. Certainly with regard to the Department of National Development, I think it is time that the Government attributed some of the air navigation charges- say 20 per cent- to that very important part of the industry. Everybody around the country benefits from people travelling. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It relates to an answer he gave on 7 November concerning the possible sale of Nomad aircraft to South Africa. In that reply he said: 
The invitation to tender involved the Nomad in its civilian configuration. It was stated that the aircraft would be used primarily for agricultural spraying and dusting and light freight work. The terms of reference set out by the company, however, also referred to possible coastal surveillance and police work. 
Did the Government ascertain how many of the Nomad aircraft would possibly be used for coastal surveillance and police work? Did the Government request any guarantee from the South African Government that the aircraft would not be armed? If not, why not? Will the 
Government once again consider the possibility of the sale of the aircraft to South Africa, provided they are not used for military or paramilitary work? 
Earlier in the night  Senator Martin  spoke very briefly about the use of VIP aircraft. No doubt many honourable senators on the Government bench would be pleased to hear her speaking about that matter rather than my speaking about it. It is one of the issues in which I have taken a reasonable amount of interest over the past few years. One of the things I have noticed on looking at the costs of VIP aircraft is that quite often large aircraft are used; in other words, BAC- 1 1 1 aircraft are used when Mysteres quite easily could be used. I think there is justification to presume, from the figures I have looked at, that the use of the larger aircraft will increase, whereas the use of the smaller aircraft will decrease. 
Before I say more about that, I think it might be appropriate, as today is 20 November, for me to remind honourable senators that on 22 November last year I asked a question without notice on a meeting in Sydney regarding VIP aircraft. That question is recorded at page 2352 of the Senate  Hansard.  I seek leave to incorporate the answer to that question. I assure the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  who is at the table, that it consists of three straightforward pages suitable for incorporation. It contains no words that the Minister would not approve of. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

LEADER OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE SENATE AND MINISTER REPRESENTING THE PRIME MINISTER 
SENATE QUESTION 
Use or Special Purpose Aircraft (Question No. W/N) 
Prime Minister has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
An assessment by officials of aircraft safety on international visits, based on a security assessment indicates that the security risk for a Prime Minister travelling on foreign owned commercially scheduled aircraft or by privately owned charter aircraft is unacceptably high. The assessment was tabled in the House of Representatives on 4 May 1978. The risk envelops other passengers. Inconvenience is also caused to other passengers on commercial aircraft because of additional security checks and security in respect of aircraft fuelling, loading and servicing. Travel on RAAF aircraft would eliminate or reduce such inconvenience and risks. 
Similar advice was given to Prime Minister Whitlam and led to the use of RAAF aircraft and Qantas charter aircraft on overseas visits. 
Qantas commercial services in limited circumstances and chartering of Qantas aircraft for VIP travel were assessed by officials as involving acceptable risks. The fact is that, whereas Qantas B707 aircraft had been used for charter by the previous Government, Qantas has now replaced its B707's with B747-100 jumbo jets. The option of chartering B707 's for overseas travel is therefore no longer open to the Government. 
Officials discussed with Qantas various options for hiring suitable aircraft and the option- which proved to be unacceptable- of Qantas continuing to operate the 707 's. Purchase of the 707 's by the RAAF was the most practicable option to retain these aircraft in Australia and have them available for official tasks. 
Although the decision to purchase B707 aircraft primarily satisfies the need for security on inter-continental VIP flights, the actual usage of the aircraft in the VIP role will be small and the main usage, will be on normal RAAF work. 
The B707 aircraft are to based at Richmond- the home of the RAAF transport force. Present plans are based on the two aircraft together flying about 1,400 hours each year. Of this total, it is expected that about 20 per cent will be used for VIP tasks, 20 per cent for crew conversion and combination training and the remaining 60 per cent for Defence tasks. It is expected at this stage that the only VIP overseas task this year requiring use of a B707 will be in respect of the Prime Minister's visit to Nigeria and Zambia at the time of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. 
Present plans envisage four general categories of Defence tasks: changeover of personnel and dependents at Butterworth (as many as 40 return flights each year conveying 2,500 passengers); movement of Defence personnel (mainly Army) on overseas exercises; movement of Defence personnel within Australia; and other personnel or cargo tasks. 
For many years the RAAF has chartered Qantas aircraft on a regular basis to repatriate RAAF and Army personnel and their families from Butterworth. The acquisition of B707 aircraft will now allow the RAAF to undertake, from within its own resources, the task of conveying changeover personnel to and from Butterworth and, on the same flights, to other destinations such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Bangkok. The cost of chartering aircraft to convey personnel to Butterworth and those other destinations was $870,300 in 1976, $1,201,500 in 1977 and $1,043,180 in 1978. The first B707 uplift of personnel took place on 22 April 1 979. 
The Defence tasks so far planned for the B707's in the financial year 1979-80 include the movement of Army personnel on international exercises. The exercises involve personnel of the defence forces of the United Kingdom, New Zealand and the United States. 
Some of the movements planned were previously undertaken by RAAF Hercules (e.g. Exercises Longlook, Tasmanex and Reindeer). Others were undertaken by transport aircraft of the RAF or USAF, or by commercial aircraft. For example, Exercise Northern Star/Southern Cross involves the exchange of UK and Australian Army sub-units for one month. In the past, the RAF has provided air transport for the 120 personnel of each nation. With the introduction of the RAAF B707s, Australia can now bear a more equitable share of the transport commitment. As similar opportunity applies in the case of Exercise Pacific Bond, which is an exchange of about 1 70 personnel between Australian-based and Hawaiian-based units; previously these moves were undertaken by USAF aircraft. In the case of US Army 25th Division command post exercise, Australian Army personnel deploy to Hawaii; previously similar deployments to Canada and the US have been undertaken by charter of commercial flights. 
There are other international exercises with the defence forces of the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Malaysia and others in which the RAAF B707s could be used for personnel movement. However considerations of sharing the transport commitment equitably between the nations involved, together with practical considerations of limited aircraft and crew availability in the RAAF B707 case, determine the actual number of deployments to which the RAAF can commit itself. 
For the financial year 1979-80, tasks already planned include about 20 Butterworth flights, about 12 flights in support of overseas exercises (to Singapore, Hong Kong, Hawaii and New Zealand), and about 10 flights in support of the Military Tattoo being staged by the Defence Force for the Western Australian Sesquicentennial Anniversary. The total hours involved in those Defence tasks already planned amount to about three-quarters of the annual authorisation. 
I also refer the honourable senator to the statement by the Minister for Defence on 13 December 1978, in which mention is made of the many other factors taken into consideration by the Government in deciding to purchase the aircraft. 
In relation to travel by Heads of Government to the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Sydney in February 1978, Prime Minister Desai of India travelled on an Air India exclusive use jet aircraft. At the Heads of Government meeting in Jamaica in December 1 978, only the national leaders of Australia and Norway did not travel by special purpose aircraft. It is very usual now for leaders of governments overseas to use Air Force or specially chartered aircraft from their national carriers. 
I received a reply about July of this year, some six or seven months after I had asked the question. It was a fairly straightforward question but I do not think it was answered. I had to admire the way in which the Government had attempted to do everything except answer some of the questions I had put to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  The answer can be looked at in  Hansard.  I would also like to incorporate in  Hansard  some replies I received on 3 1 July this year from  Mr Killen,  the Minister for Defence, to questions I asked of  Senator Guilfoyle.  The replies, which were sent to me, are straightforward answers to questions. I seek leave to incorporate the letter containing those replies. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

Minister for Defence Parliament House Canberra, ACT 2600  31 July 1979 
Dear  Senator Townley, 
You will recall that during the consideration of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79  Senator Guilfoyle  undertook to obtain information on matters you raised regarding the Boeing 707 aircraft recently purchased from Qantas. 
The following information is provided in answer to the questions you asked. 

 Question 

Did the Department of Transport have anything to do with choosing and purchasing the B707 aircraft that are to be used by the VIP fleet? 

 Answer 

The Department of Transport was involved in the considerations which culminated in the Government decision to purchase B707 aircraft. It was not involved in the actual purchase of the aircraft. The contract for purchase was arranged by the Department of Administrative Services. 

 Question 

Who will fix the motors of the Boeing 707 aircraft we have now? 

 Answer 

Qantas Airways Ltd will maintain the engines of the B707 aircraft under contracts similar to those under which they now maintain the engines of the RAAF C130, P3B and P3C aircraft. 

 Question Who will do the training? 

 Answer 

Qantas Airways Limited were contacted to undertake initial aircrew and ground crew training. Any further training requirements will be undertaken by the RAAF. 
Question Who will own the simulator? 
Answer 
It is understood that Qantas has arranged for the sale of the simulator to another operator of B707 aircraft. Because of the comparatively small number of aircrew involved, the RAAF does not have a requirement for a simulator. 
Question 
Why were two aircraft chosen? 
Answer 
It was decided to purchase two aircraft to ensure regular availability of aircraft while at the same time allowing for necessary and unforeseen maintenance of each aircraft and to provide the capacity for the regular training of aircrew. 
Question 
I would like to ask for the cost of operating the 707s. Answer 
In February 1979, the Acting Minister for Defence advised you that the annual costs of operating and maintaining the aircraft (including personnel costs) were estimated at $4.500m. 
Since that time this estimate has been refined, to accommodate a more comprehensive operating plan which calls for extensive use of the aircraft on personnel and family movement and allows for the progressive assumption of maintenance responsibility by the RAAF in the long term. 
Based on these developments of the project the current estimated direct annual costs of operating and maintaining the aircraft are $4.940m and the annual long term indirect support costs are estimated at $0.440m. 
The use of the aircraft, for the movement of personnel and families to and from Butterworth, in lieu of commercial chaner, is estimated to reduce Defence outlay in travel by approximately $0.800m a year. 
-One of the questions I asked during the consideration of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79 regarding the Boeing 707 aircraft recently purchased was: Who will own the simulator? The answer which I received and which is contained in the letter which has just been incorporated reads: 
It is understood that Qantas has arranged for the sale of the simulator to another operator of B707 aircraft. Because of the comparatively small number of aircrew involved, the RAAF does not have a requirement for a simulator. 
I hope, because of the sale of the simulator, we will not be sending Royal Australian Air Force air crew overseas to be trained in simulators or aircraft. Later in the night I expect to be talking about the Department of Transport which sends some of its officers overseas to be trained to examine air crew. I hope that the Department of Defence will not now use that philosophy in relation to its VIP fleet. I hope that we will not see the use of the larger aircraft, particularly the 707s, in preference to the smaller aircraft. When the decision to purchase the 707 aircraft was being considered we were assured that the aircraft would be used only for international flights. I think that if members of the Government or people who are entitled to use VIP aircraft within Australia start to use the 707s within Australia this Senate should take heed of what  Senator Martin  said earlier tonight. 
In my estimation the cost of our VIP flight is increasing more rapidly than it should. The VIP fleet contains three Mysteres, two BAC-11 ls two HS-748s and two Boeing 707s. During last financial year- before the two 707s were in usejust under 3,000 hours of flying were logged. That worked out to about 400 hours a year for each aircraft. That is not really enough to warrant the retention of all those aircraft. I think that I have said before that Air Niugini at one stage had one 707 aircraft that did 4,000 hours a year. I am not for one moment suggesting that one of our 707s should do 4,000 hours a year, but I think it is about time that the whole VIP fleet is rationalised. I think it is time that all the costs of the VIP fleet are put together so that they can be easily looked at by members of Parliament. It is very difficult at the moment to work out the cost of operating these aircraft. Different costs are contained within the estimates for different departments. I think it is time that we tidied up this aspect. If we have to have these aircraft their cost should be made clear to us. 
The other matter I mentioned briefly relates to the Department of the Treasury. Page 194 of the Budget Paper No. 1 for this year shows that taxable income from $1 to $3,893- this has occurred due to tax indexation and the tax scales of the last few years- attracts no tax. The paper then sets out other tax scales. I think it is about time that all these scales were rounded off. A figure of S3, 893 seems crazy to me. It should be rounded off, as should the next figure of $ 16,608. This is only a small point but if the figures were rounded off it would make a little easier the arithmetic of the people who have to fill in tax returns and who do not have the use of one of the little things which light up when pushed. 
I rise during the discussion on the Department of Home Affairs to bring to the attention of this chamber something that has happened a couple of times within this Department. On 9 September the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  put out a Press statement in which he announced the setting up of a sports advisory council. In the news release the Minister said: 
Members of the Council bring with them a wide variety of skills in the sports field including administration, coaching, active participation and sports research. 
I received a copy of a brochure that was sent out the other day and which is headed 'Commonwealth Government Funding for National Sports Development'. I looked down the list of people on that council and I noted that there are three New South Welshmen, two Victorians, one South Australian, one Queenslander, one person from Western Australia ' but no one from Tasmania. 
I would have thought, seeing the way the McDonald Cup has been going recently, that Tasmania certainly should have at least one member on the council. It is just not good enough to have something like that being done by a Commonealth government. I do not care about the Territories. They are too small for me. As well as that, when a National Australia Day Committee was named on 1 1 September 1 979 the same kind of thing happened. Once again there was not a Tasmanian on it. 
-That is the kind of thing I would expect from a Queenslander. But we Tasmanians like to be considered when thing are being proposed. 
-We are being discriminated against; that is exactly right. I do not know whether the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr 
Ellicott) had an aberration during those couple of days and he forgot that Tasmania was there, or whether he left it off the map, as is often done. I have not looked at the map to see whether it has been left off. The document does not have a map on it, but I would ask in future that the Department of Home Affairs wake up to itself. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of the Capital Territory 
Proposed expenditure, $80, 1 37,000. 
I would like to raise a couple of matters dealing with the estimates for the Department of Transport. Firstly, I have a list showing the hours flown by departmental aircraft. It is a very simple list and could easily be incorporated in  Hansard.  I seek leave of the Committee to have it incorporated. 
Leave granted. 

 The list read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911214_104_3.jpg"></graphic>

If honourable senators look at that list they will see that the Department has three F28 aircraft which fly a total of 1865 hours. That is not enough to warrant having three of those aircraft. During the Estimates committee hearing we were told that they were going to fly some 3,000 hours in the coming year. Even that would not warrant having the three aircraft. Like the VIP fleet, it is time that some examination of all of the aircraft owned by the Department was looked at. 
Once again I would like to mention the air navigation charges. I received a letter dated 16 November which states that in the year 1972-73 the costs of the Department were some $1 16m and revenue was only $58m. During the last year costs had risen to $243. 6m and revenue was just under $ 1 50m. This shows that in those years the revenue has gone up by 260 per cent while costs have almost doubled. So the Government is making some headway in its cost recovery plan for people who use the aircraft. I am still worried because we have to pick up another $20m in the next two years. 
-I do not know that we will ever catch up. It seems as if this is something that consecutive governments have tried to do. I am not sure that it is something that we should really try to do. In my opinion we should not aim for a 100 per cent recovery. The more we put up internal air fares the more people are going to opt to go overseas rather than visit beautiful places of Australia like Tasmania that are often left off the map. We must keep air fares in this country at a reasonable level. It is getting to the stage where people in Perth are complaining about the cost of coming to the eastern States. It is getting to the stage where people from Tasmania cannot really afford to go to Perth. With the cheaper air fares, and with a bit of planning, they can afford to go to a place like Singapore, which is a place where a lot of people would like to go. I am sure that those people would enjoy Perth much more if they went there. When they do travel abroad they fill their pockets with money. Instead of spending it in Australia they spend it overseas. It is time that these air navigation charges were looked at in an attempt to include some percentage of the costs that can be put down to national development. 
Each year we spend millions of dollars on the railroads and on the roads. In those instances the users are not required to pay. I wonder why the airline industry has been singled out. The whole matter of air navigation charges needs sensible re-examination. Heavy costs have been imposed in a simplistic way and it shows an appalling lack of thought. The airline transport industry in Australia is perhaps our most efficient form of transport and it plays a vital part in overcoming the problems of distance in this vast continent. People in all areas of the country benefit from those who travel. To insist on full recovery only from those people who pay the air fare is not a sensible thing to aim for. 
Since I have been a member of this place I have been trying to get an overall examination of air navigation charges. I am still pressing for that course to be followed. Such action would be sensible and practical on the part of the Government. If we bring the headquarters of the Department of Transport to Canberra it will be something that will add to the costs of running the Depanment. Since it has been decided that that should be done a lot of expertise has been lost to the Department. Some very diligent people who have worked for a long time within the Department of Civil Aviation have decided not to leave their cities to come to the unreal city of Canberra. 
I think that in Canberra one tends to get out of touch the longer one stays here. I am not referring just to members of Parliament. The longer one stays here the more unreal one's attitude becomes. It is no good officers of a department making short trips to examine an area. I suggest that that is not enough to enable them to learn all that they would learn if they lived in the reality of places like Melbourne and Sydney. I do not agree with the trend of bringing departments to Canberra. I think that the matter of aviation in this country is still important enough for the Government to consider having a department of civil aviation quite separate from the Department of Transport. 
I have a couple of specific questions relating to the estimates. I would still like to know why it is not possible for the Department of Transport to be able to work out the actual revenue that is being received on sectors such as Melbourne to Sydney. It should have a fair idea of the return it receives from sectors around the country. With regard to the expenditure for pilot training referred to on pages 3 1 and 32 of the supplementary notes we were given, the sending of officers overseas to be trained does not seem sensible to me. The figures supplied to us show that it is in fact cheaper. I believe that is because the cost of hiring aircraft in Australia involves the cost of fuel which carries a pretty hefty Government tax. If that Government tax were waived when the aircraft was used in the training of departmental people I think costs in this country would be much more comparable with those in America. I was told that the airlines here cannot supply aircraft for training because they are using them all the time for training their pilots. I do not know how recently inquiries have been made on that matter but I have heard that at least one of the airlines could have aircraft available. I do not have any other matters to raise with regard to this section of the estimates. I can find a few if honourable senators would like. I actually could. But I am cutting my speech short. I have another speech to make in a few moments. 
The Department of Administrative Services annual report 1978-79, at the bottom of page 1, states: 
The Department's role may be regarded in general as serving two purposes. One of these is the centralised provision of services- to Members of Parliament, to depart.ments and to other governmental authorities. 
I think it is important to read the way that that is written and the order in which it is written. On page 2, in the second column, the report states: 
Consistent with responsible public administrationparticularly the obligation to obtain value for money in using resources drawn from the community- reappraisals have been made both within the Depanment and by persons outside it in quest of greater efficiency, improved responsiveness to government policies . . . 
Yesterday  Senator Sim  said that the Parliament should not be constrained by lack of staff members. I believe too that it should not be constrained by lack of space. I am not for a moment talking about space for extra staff, and I do not want it interpreted that I am calling for extra staff for members of parliament. I am not doing that. But I think that the present staff of the Senate and its committees needs some consideration.  Senator McClelland  yesterday also said that it was time for Parliament to stand up to the Executive control. I hope I have not misquoted him. I think it is crazy to send officers of the Parliament or the Library to work in the Hotel Canberra. I think it is just as crazy for them to be sent eventually from the Hotel Canberra to the Hotel Kurrajong, which I believe is the present plan. 
The Parliament Act 1974, on page 3, shows a map of the Parliamentary Triangle. I feel strongly that any of the buildings within that area should be very much under the control of this Parliament. Certainly the Hotel Canberra and the Hotel Kurrajong are outside that area. The area that I intend to speak about is West Block. During the Estimates committee hearings  Senator Jessop,  I think it was, asked about West Block and  Mr MacDonnell  advised us that it was unoccupied.  Mr Palmer  said: 
It is unsafe. It is regarded as a fire hazard and so there is a proposal now to 'refurbish ' the building and restore it to a fit state for its use. 
He went on to say: 
We own the building so there is no question of rent being paid. 
I ask: Is it all a fire hazard? Could not some of it be used right away? The fact that the Government owns the building does not detract from the fact that it should be used in the most efficient, common sense way. To me, it makes no sense to move people who have to deal with members of the Parliament- the Library and committee people- to the Hotel Kurrajong, which is a long way from the Senate. I would like to know just how much of West Block, from a fire hazard point of view, could be used almost immediately. 
If possible, I would like to see the letter from the fire authorities to the Department saying what is wrong with West Block. 
To put this matter forward in an appropriate way, and consequent upon the report of Estimates Committee E, I move: 
That the Committee, having considered the report of Estimates Committee E, recommends- 
That the Government be again requested to allocate West Block to Parliament for its use pending building of the New and Permanent Parliament House; and 
That refurbishing and restoration of the building be undertaken without delay, after consultation with parliamentary departments.  ( Quorum formed). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1 979: 
Will the Minister table copies of all telexes, sent by the Press and Public Relations Sections of Qantas to both overseas Qantas posts and overseas sections of the Department of Foreign Affairs, relating to overseas travel by the  Chairman  of Qantas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1 979: 
What is the current overseas allowance of the  Chairman  of Qantas? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, by saying that no doubt he and other honourable senators realise that for a considerable time now there has been speculation about and a study of the possibility of direct flights between Hobart and Christchurch in New Zealand. Is the Minister yet able to say when those flights will begin? Can he give the Senate any information about them? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
How many overseas trips have been made by the present Chairman of Qantas Airways Limited between his appointment and 22 March 1979. 
What were: (a) the dates of such trips; (b) the places visited; (c) the reasons for each visit; and (d) the costs of each trip including details of costs of (i) hotels; (ii) cars; (iii) taxis; (iv) hospitality; and (vi) entertainment. 
Who gives approval for the Chairman's overseas travel and expenditure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister give a commitment in early 1979 to ensure that appointments to statutory authorities, trusts, statutory committees and similar bodies would in future include representatives on their boards, councils, etc., from among young Australians under 30 years of age, who now make up 51 per cent of the nation's population; if so, when, and to whom, was that commitment given. 
To what statutory authorities, trusts, statutory committees and similar bodies has the Commonwealth made appointments since December 1977, and what is the purpose of each such organisation. 
What are the names of the persons who have been appointed to the board, council or management committee to supervise the management of each organisation in part (2 ) above. 
When did each appointment take effect, and when did it, or will it, cease, as the case may be. 
Which of the persons mentioned in part (3) above were under 30 years of age at the time of their appointment, and what age was each appointee at the time of appointment. 
What are the specific reasons, in the case of each appointment, for excluding young Australians from representation on organisations and agencies to which appointments have been made since December 1977 and on which young Australians have not been represented. 
Will young Australians who are willing  to  serve on such boards and committees, etc., be publicly invited and actively encouraged to submit their names and biographies to the Office of Youth Affairs, with a view to involving them positively in the processes of government 
Will proof of age have to be submitted to the Government in future in respect of all appointees to statutory authorities prior to actual appointment; if not, why not. 
To which such bodies will the Government be making appointments from 8 November 1979 until December 1980. 
