by leave - I wish to announce to the Senate that owing to a number of factors 1 resigned from the Australia Party early in January and have reverted to my status as an independent senator for Tasmania. To the many hundreds who joined the Australia Party because of my participation I wish to sincerely apologise for deserting them. To  Mr Gordon  Barton and to the members of the national executive I owe a great deal for their support in the formation of the Australia Party and I wish them well in the future. 
-I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question following on that asked by  Senator Greenwood.  I think the matter goes a bit beyond the responsibility of the Attorney-General. The question asked by  Senator Greenwood  was part of what was to have been my question. I ask: Because so many of us are completely ignorant in relation to Wilfred Burchett, is it possible for the Government to state whether allegations are being made against Wilfred Burchett or whether it is dealing with proven facts? What is the whole story? I am not the only person confused. Nobody seems to know what is the true position. I feel that the public and even the Government would benefit if a statement were made. 
Has the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities  seen  that rather magnificent and extraordinary film called 'Open Boat to Adventure', which was made by the Leyland Brothers of Newcastle? Will he confer with the Australian Tourist Commission to see whether it could purchase this film for showing in other countries? Will he, with your concurrence,  Mr President,  arrange for the benefit of those members of the Parliament who have not seen this rather amazing film - it is a film that every Australian should see - to have it shown in Parliament House? 
I ask the Minister for Air a question. What is the total cost of providing all facilities for the introduction of the FU 1 to Australia, that is, the cost of buildings, extensions to runways, and the special training and maintenance of crews in the United Suites of America? What is the total cost of all stores and supplies for the F1 1 1 up to the present time? What is the total cost paid by the Australian Government for the purchase of these planes up to the present time? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation three questions: Firstly, when was the 2-airline policy adopted by the Government? Secondly, what was the total number of passengers carried for the 12 months by Ansett and 
Trans-Australia Airlines at that time? Thirdly, what was the total number carried by the 2 companies in the last 12 months? 
I wish to follow  Senator Marriott's  remarks about the denigration of Senate select committees by saying that no-one has been a greater denigrator of Senate select committees than his own Government. I instance the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. Although we have heard reference to the report of the Committee headed by  Mr Justice  Nimmo, never once have we heard the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  mention the report of the Senate Select Committee. That Committee was set up by this House and did a mighty fine job. 
The Government has denigrated it by not mentioning it. If the honourable senator has difficulty in understanding what I say, I will explain it to him later. The Senate Select Committee did quite good work and put forward many sound proposals. Not once has any praise or any credit been given to it and especially to its  Chairman, Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood. Perhaps the denigration of Senate select committees should be brought home to Government members before they criticise others for denigrating other committees. 
I wish to speak mainly about national health insurance and the national health service. 1 believe we have now reached the stage at which doctors on the one hand and the Government on the other hand are fighting each other through the Press and the people are not getting any benefit from such arguments. Firstly, the Government must accept that doctors have a right to charge whatever they wish. This right is attributed to every profession. No profession has its charges limited. From today's Press it appears that the common fee is to be the fixed fee. If that is so, the Government will have no doctor taking part in the national health scheme in any circumstances. Earlier it was said that the common fee was not the fixed fee. We accepted that. After all, the common fee is related to medical benefits and not to doctor's charges and was never intended to have such a relationship, lt was mainly a peg on which to hang medical benefits. 
From today's Press it would appear that if doctors do not charge the common fee they will not 'be allowed to take part in the scheme. This is sheer blackmail and will not help the patients. I heard the Minister for Health say that his Government is concerned only with what is best for patients. Never have I heard a more platitudinous remark. We know very well that what he really meant was not what was best for the patient but what was best for the electorate and the return of the Government. If he had a real interest in the welfare of patients, long ago he would have accepted what the various bodies recommended on smoking. I will mention that subject later. It is not realised that doctors are one of the few groups that contribute to social services. We treat pensioners and we are paid a reduced fee by the Government. In other words, we save the Commonwealth a certain amount on fees. 
I was just coming to that. Admittedly we do get paid by the Commonwealth for this. It was said that before the Government introduced the national medical service we probably did not get paid at all. This may be quite true, but we were better off without the national health scheme, if the honourable senator would like to know. It would be far better if there were no national health scheme. I can remember that when 1 started in practice the consultation fee and the visit fee were the same. They were the equivalent of $1  -  that is 10s - and I think the basic wage was the equivalent of $4. On this basis the consultation fee today should be at least $5. 
-I could apply that to anything, but at least we do not ask for subsidies. 
No, we do not just take it, because you have said we have the right. You wantto apply it to wheat. Doctors were better off with pensioners under the old scheme even if they did not pay us. lt is no good arguing that we have a guaranteed income in regard to pensioners because, after all, they are only a small part of many doctors practices. Pensioners do not represent a major income for the greater majority of doctors. I want to make another point -I am trying to be impartial - and that is that the Australian Medical Association does not represent the majority of doctors, no matter how much it says it does. A sort of laissez faire situation exists amongst the doctors. The general practitioners are usually the busiest group and they do not have time to attend meetings of the AMA. Invariably, when the AMA comes to a decision, we find the general practitioners believe this is a wrong decision. The reason for this belief of course, is that the specialists attend the meetings and vote against matters of general practice. The general practitioners do not usually attend because they have their own work to do and cannot attend. The result is that the specialists attitude is always carried at an AMA meeting. Furthermore, the AMA is very badly served with publicity. I think its relationship with the public is shocking.I do not think any organisation could have worse publicity than the AMA has had. 
I turn now to the common fee which is not an average fee, although the two could be the same. I presume that sometimes the two would work out the same, but it is the most common fee. No-one is objecting to it because we were always told and we still maintain that it has nothing to do with the doctor's charge. In the light of the Government's attitude, one could well say that allbarristers should charge the same amount. 
Well, you expect all doctors to charge the same amount.If one gives a better service one is entitled to charge more. In 14 years personal experience in practice in Launceston, our group of doctors has always charged 50c more than any other group in that town. 
lt is because we say that we give a better service. 
I have sold my practice and I do not think any honourable senators are coming to me for treatment. To return to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  I say that we give a much better service and people will go to the doctor they want. The question of cost is not involved. If people have faith . in a doctor they are prepared to go to that doctor. Apparently they had faith in us because when I commenced my practice in Launceston for the second time by myself I was joined by a second, third, and then fourth partner, and the practice still grows. This illustration refutes the argument that everybody cannot afford to pay doctors fees, because in our practice we were charging 50c more per consultation and our practice was one of the largest in Launceston, if not in Tasmania, when it broke up. 
People can afford to pay the extra fee and they will pay it if they are receiving the service. Do not let the Commonwealth Government ask that everyone apply the common fee. If it is going to insist on this, then this is price fixing. No-one in this community, especially members on the Government side of the House, is prepared to have anything to do with price fixing. Somehow or other, because the Government thinks this is good vote catching and it might help electorally, and because of the Labor Party's proposition, the Government supporters are prepared to endorse price fixing for doctors. Doctors do not object to the common fee or, at least, most doctors do not, provided it is tied to an index. This is the point the Government has not made clear. It has said it is investigating. It should have investigated this point long ago and settled the matter before it came out into the open about a common fee. We are quite happy to have a common fee provided it is subject to change every 2 years. 1 do not think the medical profession will quibble about the common fee if it is tied to some index which can be adjusted every 2 years and over which the Government has no say. If the Government is going to decide what increases or decreases should be given the general practitioner will certainly have no part of such a scheme. 
One has only to look at the chemists and what has happened to them in their agreement with the Commonwealth Government. The Government agreed that there would be an independent inquiry. When the independent inquiry supported the chemists and not the Government, the Government decided not to have anything to do with the agreement. Of course, we are aware of the fact that the Government cannot be trusted because of the pensioner medical service. The Government is still arguing what should be an appropriate fee for this service. I do not think it is advisable for the Government to threaten doctors, and I do not think it is good for the nation for the doctors to threaten the Government. I think there should be some method of compromise in order to settle these matters. It is unfortunate that the Minister for Health listened to his Department. He was given wrong advice. The trouble, of course, is that a non-technical minister has to accept the advice of his Department. 
The Minister was told in this case that the problem with the national health scheme was that people had high bills to pay when they saw a specialist, and especially where an operation was involved. This is not so, of course, because 65% of all payments are for item 1, a general practitioner's service, and this is the item that causes more complaints amongst the public than the fact that people have to pay a high fee for an operation. After all, when one compares the number of people who have to have an operation and the number of people who see a general practitioner, it is practically infinitesimal. 
Yes. On advice the Prime Minister stated that no-one would have to pay more than  $5  for an operation. I think the amount has now come down to $5 for specialist treatment. The figure sounded good and I think the medical profession was all for it. I think the Senate select committee said that no price should be paid - that anyone needing an operation should not pay anything. This amount of $5 seemed all right but, unfortunately, since then a differential system between the services of a specialist and a general practitioner has arisen and these clash. The two are incompatible because having the maximum payment of $5 means the end of the general practitioner's practice. Why should a person go to a general practitioner when he can obtain the same treatment from a specialist and the Commonwealth will pay for the treatment? 
Yes. But a difference exists between preferring a general practitioner and preferring a specialist. One has a choice in general practitioners and a choice in specialists and one would go to whichever doctor one preferred in either case. But if a person thinks he is going to get something better for which he does not have to pay he will then go straight away to the specialist. This is going to make the cost of this national health scheme astronomical because there is no doubt at all that a surgeon will be rushed with operations which, at present, general practitioners do. The surgeon will immediately increase his price and in time the common fee for that operation must also increase. Again the Government has to foot the bill above $5. 
There are two types of group practices. I do not hold with the one where there are specialists. We tried this ourselves. If you are going to have a group practice, I think you should be either a group of specialists or a group of general practitioners. We tried this ourselves in Launceston and gave it up because we found we were in an embarrassing position in referring everyone to our surgeon. This sounded as if we were trying to make money out of our patients. I do not think you should have that situation. I think you should have groups of general practitioners. The group practice with specialists will work, but I do not think it should be allowed. 
Another point I wish to make is in regard to the differential between the fees charged for services provided by general practitioners and specialists for certain items under the proposed national health scheme. The list of items is so absurd that one finds it extremely difficult to understand how the Australian Medical Association and the Department of Health could have allowed some of them in the first place. For example, surgeons will not bother to operate on a simple sebaceous cyst, but there is a differential and if a surgeon removes it he will, because he has a higher degree, get a larger fee than a general practitioner. A circumcision is usually performed by a general practitioner but if it is done by a gynaecologist - I am not too sure how, under the definition of gynaecology, he gets into the circumcision field - he gets a higher fee. It is patently absurd. Many tonsillectomies and other minor operations are performed by GPs at present but in the future they will be done by surgeons and the GPs will become merely pen pushers. 
The Government's scheme also poses a threat to the country doctors. There are many doctors in country areas who do magnificent jobs although they do not have any senior degrees. When the  President  of the Australian Medical Association,  Sir 
Clarence Rieger, gave evidence before the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs and he was mooting a differential I asked him whether he thought he was a worse doctor when he was a general practitioner than when he received the degree of a Fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. I also asked him whether he thought he should have charged less previously. He would not answer my questions. Obviously he knew that, as a general practitioner, he was doing just as good a job as some of the surgeons with an FRACS degree and that he should be paid the same amount of money. 
The common fee will not be a common fee throughout Australia because each State will have its own common fee. In South Australia the common fee will be lower. South Australia may lose many of its doctors as a result. I do not say that it will, but there is a chance that some doctors will transfer to New South Wales where the common fee is higher. It will be difficult to entice doctors into the country areas of Tasmania and the other less populous States if the common fee is not the same throughout Australia. But it would be difficult to achieve a common fee throughout Australia. I do not know whether the medical profession would agree to such a proposal. New South Wales has the largest number of members of the profession. If the common fee applicable in each State were averaged out I suppose New South Wales would have to reduce its common fee. I do not think it is proper that there should be a common fee applicaable to each State. 
Articles which have appeared in the Press would make it appear as though doctors are greedy. One of the reasons why doctors are seeking higher fees is taxation. 
General practitioners are in the highest taxed group in the community. We all know that the middle income group is the heaviest taxed. The medical profession is at the top of that group. The Treasury has admitted that these people are taxed unjustly, but it has not done anything to assist them. It may be that if the medical profession paid less taxation it would not want to increase its fees as often as it does. I pointed out earlier that I was much better off in 1936 when I was charging $1 for a consultation than I am today when I am charging $3.50. I mention these points only because I think it is time we had some clarity. 
The Government cannot insist that the medical profession adhere to the common fee because it would be tantamount to price fixing. If it insists on price fixing the whole of the medical profession will drop out of the scheme and it will fail. I do not approve of the Government threatening the medical profession. Society is as bad in its actions. 1 think there must be some compromise in order to get the scheme working. The most important thing is to have a scheme and to have the doctors who are working in it happy to be a part of it. 
By virtue of a degree. But there are specialists and there are consultants. The consultants do not go out into the streets looking for patients but the specialists do. They will take anyone who comes to their door and will charge specialist fees. It is rather absurd to think that a person with a boil on his ear will go to an ear, nose and throat specialist and be charged accordingly because he thinks it is an ear problem, whereas he could go to a general practitioner and be charged the ruling fee for his services. The GP would probably be just as efficient. If the Government wants an economic health scheme it should take note of the fact that not one country in the world will deny that the cheapest form of a national health scheme is a general practitioner service. The Government started off with such a scheme but, unfortunately, it is now departing from its principles. 
I do not have much time at my disposal to debate this subject because, although my time is unrestricted, I know that other honourable senators want to raise certain matters. But before sitting down I wish to refer briefly to drugs. On a previous occasion I moved an urgency motion on this matter, but I was brushed off by the Minister responsible for the portfolio of Health in this chamber. It was said that nothing should be done. Since then the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse has been set up and the public is becoming more aware of the drug problem. But before discussing this matter any further I want to say that I  am  sick and tired of this business of talking to the Minister who is on duty in the chamber. With due deference to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who is on duty at this stage, I would like to say that when there is a debate on the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech or an appropriation Bill every Minister should be present in the chamber. How often do honourable senators refer to matters concerning different Ministries and no-one cares two hoots about what they say? I have been a Minister. Therefore, do not tell me that Ministers are so busy that they cannot sit in the chamber and listen to the debates. We sat for only 50 days last year. Surely it would not inconvenience them that much. I concede that the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  almost always sits in the chamber during debates, although today is an exception. He is usually here regardless of whether he is on duty. If he can do it so can the other Ministers. No-one minds them going out of the chamber for a short period. At present we have one Minister on duty in the chamber, but no-one cares two hoots about what is said. I know that the portfolio held by  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin is not Health, but as she represents the Minister for Health in this chamber she should be here. Other Ministers should also be here during such a debate. 
I believe that there should be a complete ban on the manufacture in Australia of LSD - what is called 'acid' by the young people. 
It is not legal, but it can be made. More stringent steps should be taken and heavier penalties should be imposed upon anyone who manufactures or peddles it in Australia. Although LSD has some medical use its use is limited. It has a far greater potential for evil than any other drug. Therefore, it should  be  completely abolished. A complete ban should be imposed on its use. I do not think the medical profession should be allowed to use it. The number of people who benefit from its use is so small when compared to the great harm it can do. 
Yes, but any chemist can make it. 
 I stress that higher penalties should be imposed on anyone illegally manufacturing it. 
1 shall deal with the question of whether prohibiting its production is the answer. After raising this matter on a previous occasion I received a letter from a young girl who was a patient at a Melbourne private hospital. I shall read it because I think it is pertinent. Her doctor advised her to have LSD treatment for her psychiatric condition. 
A psychiatrist. She said: 
I had no idea what would happen to me after the drug was administered in a Melbourne private hospital. However, after 30 minutes or so it began to take effect. At first there was a feeling of fearful wonder, then a sensation of sheer terror and I began to feel myself gradually losing control of all my faculties and becoming alienated from myself and from everything. As the evening progressed the feeling of terror intensified. It was as though I were on a plane of different and dreadful existence- but it is a feeling completely indescribable in more words, doctor. I can only say I was in a state of terror beyond tenor beyond terror, if that makes some kind of sense. Then the ghastly hallucinations began, increasing the dread, horror and fear. This continued all through the night. 
At intervals the doctor came in to note my reactions. I felt an almost uncontrollable impulse to tell him never to use the drug again - that it was wrong, terribly wrong. It was an intuitive feeling, almost a warning, but in spite of all, I felt it would be presumptuous to tell a professional gentleman what he should do, or should not do. And I believe at that stage the drug was considered harmless. However, the feeling of 'warning' the doctor intensified. Still I could not. I could speak quite rationally with him, and the effects of the drug lasted all night until tablets were given to me the following morning. Now that the drug is receiving so much adverse publicity, I feel more strongly that what I felt was a warning was not merely intuitive. I firmly believe it should never be used, even in psychiatric research. Although it is some years since I had it, I have never forgotten the inculcate terror - the worst nightmare, the worst horror film could never equal it, or come within reach of it; consequently, I feel so vehemently that everything possible should be done to ban its use. I am not a religious fanatic - far from it - but I believe that the administration of the drug to either ill or well persons is inhuman and anti-Christ. This feeling predominated all through that never-to-be-forgotten night, although I realise of course it was given to me' completely innocently by a doctor for whom I have great respect. 
Of course, this is only her own personal reaction, but it is the sort of thing that can happen. I believe that people should have nothing whatever to do with this drug, that they should cease taking it. 
The reason why I mentioned this matter was that I want to deal with pot or marihuana or cannabis or whatever one likes to call it. What should we do about pot? Should we let the young people have it, or should we not? This is a very vital question and one on which I think we ought to make up our minds one way or the other. 
When I spoke about this matter previously I said I believed that marihuana should be banned but I am not so sure now that it should be banned, because since that time I have read far more about it - even the book on marihuana which was banned by the Department of Customs and Excise. I do not know why it was banned, although it did tend to be biased towards the use of marihuana. How the Department of Customs and Excise could ban it, so help me. Pot does give one a feeling of euphoria. It gives one the feeling that life has some meaning. Therefore I suppose that in the immature person it has some purpose. That is why the young, who after all, are immature, have taken up using pot. Who are we, the oldies or the squares, to tell the young that they must not smoke pot? 
Yes, we have, but I have not finished. Are we to tell the young not to smoke pot when we drink alcohol? 
I will come to these points shortly. The argument which the young use is this: 'When you want to escape, you go to alcohol, you go to your bottle. When we, the young of this generation, want to escape we go to cannabis or to pot or to marihuana.' This is their argument, and it is a very difficult one to disprove, because we do not deny ourselves alcohol. Most of us take alcohol in some degree - some to a greater degree than others. We continue to take alcohol which does tremendous harm to domestic relations. Doctors see the harm which alcohol can do - how it can break up homes, especially when the wife starts to become a dipsomaniac or an alcoholic. 
I have to conclude my speech by 12.45 p.m., so I will not answer any more interjections. I had always believed that the  use  of pot should be made illegal, but I have changed my mind because people in the medical field cannot prove that pot is a drug of addiction. Once you rule that out, then there is no real argument against using pot. The only real argument is that the sort of person who will take up pot is the sort of person who will try LSD. Of course, the pushers get more profit from LSD, and the argument is that if a person goes to them for pot they will try to get that person onto LSD. If the Government made the use of pot legal, then of course there would be no pushers. The Government could ensure that it had sole control over the manufacture and sale of pot, and it could impose a high sales tax on pot and charge what it liked. In that way people who wanted pot could have it. That is only a suggestion. 
 I am trying to get onto the question of smoking. 
That may be true, but how can we tell the young they must stop taking pot when at the present time we do not know of any known danger in taking pot. 
The honourable senator is right. What  Senator Cavanagh  says is right. In 100 years we may find that pot, like  LSD,  has some effect on the genes; I do not know. 1 am not advocating pot, but I am saying that it is difficult to tell the young not to take pot when we drink alcohol. I want to see a sympathetic attitude adopted towards people who smoke pot. It is rather absurd to try to eliminate pot when we are facing a problem in regard to alcohol. On the other hand, we should do everything possible to make sure that no-one gets hold of acid. 
I cannot deal with all the aspects of smoking in 5 minutes, but I want to make the point that although it has been proved for 2 or 3 years that smoking has harmful effects, not only in increasing mortality but also in increasing morbidity, nothing has been done about it. We are told that we will educate the children in the schools, that this is the way it should be done. All the suggestions which the medical profession have made are useless, according to the Department of Health and the Government. They say that we will educate the children in the schools. What is the Government doing in the schools today? It is letting children smoke in one school after the other. Surely the Government should have realised by now that education is not the answer for the prevention of smoking. 
No. I do not advocate pot at all, but I believe that we cannot argue against the use of pot in the same way as we can argue against the use of LSD. We can argue against smoking far more than we can against the use of pot. That is why I am trying to link these matters up. We impose fines on people who use pot, but we do not impose fines on people who smoke cigarettes. But on the other hand, we have proof today - we do not have to wait 100 years - that smoking has harmful effects. What does the Government do about it? All it says is: In the national health service we are considering the patient.' The Government is not considering the patient at all. It is merely thinking of the effects which these matters have on the electorate. If the Government were thinking of the harm which smoking caused to people it would abolish smoking. We know that is impossible, but at least the Government could do something. It could do the simple things which it has been asked to do by the National Health and Medical Research Council, the AMA and others. It could prohibit cigarette advertising, but it will not do so. It will not do anything. The Government has been asked to provide that the tar content in cigarettes shall be disclosed on cigarette packets, because everyone knows that it is the tar content which affects people who smoke cigarettes; but the Government will not do anything about it. You are weak, you are killers, that is what you on the Government benches are, because you will not do it. You will not face up to your responsibilities. Year after year you will go out and pursue these people who smoke pot although it is less harmful than smoking cigarettes. 
I stopped smoking long ago, except cigars. I am trying to conclude in the time which is available to me, so I will get off smoking. 
I will come back to this matter later because I have a bit more to say on it. Will the Government tell us why it will not provide that the tar content in cigarettes shall be disclosed on cigarette packets? What is the reason? I ask the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  to ask this question of the Minister for Health, whom she represents in this chamber. It is very difficult for us to get replies from any Minister. The Minister for Housing has more access to other Ministers. This is what the Government should be doing. Why does it not  do  it? Why does it not advertise the fact that only two brands of cigarettes - I think Hallmark and- 
Hallmark is one of the brands of cigarettes which has a low content of nicotine. If people want to smoke, they can smoke  5  Hallmark cigarettes to  every  Rothmans cigarette. Yet the Government allows people to continue advertising cigarettes which are killing people and making them as sick as can  be  with various illnesses. The Government does nothing about the matter, although it complains bitterly about it. 
I pass now from cigarette smoking  to  air pollution. One would think that at a time when many nations have the ability to land a space craft on the moon something could be done about the emission of fumes from buses in the streets. Fumes are pouring from buses travelling on our roads but nothing is done about finding a solution. Some honourable senators who will not listen to the argument put forward  on  cigarette smoking say that air pollution is just as bad. If that is the case why does not the Government introduce legislation to correct the position? The answer will be that it is a State responsibility. As a lead to the States the Commonwealth could ban buses or other vehicles which emit diesel fumes. 
Sitting suspended from 12.46 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had made some caustic remarks about Ministers not being present. I wish to apologise ' to  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin because I understand that she was listening to the blower and heard every word that I said. I am pleased to know that some Ministers do listen, even if they do not attend here. The second point is that I might have given a wrong impression in regard to the smoking of pot. I do not believe that anyone should smoke pot. I do not believe that we should bring another social disease into the community. I might have been carried away by the fact that I was leading up to the point that the Government, which uses the whole of its weight and legal processes to condemn those who smoke pot, does nothing about a practice which is a killer. Pot has not been proved to  be  anything more than the equivalent of alcohol. 
 I agree. Some people apparently have the wrong impression that I was favouring the smoking of pot. This is not so. However, I do emphasise that all the processes of law are against the young boy who smokes pot but not a thing is done about the young boy who wishes to smoke ordinary ciagrettes which are a far more potent danger to the youth of Australia. But I do not want to keep on with the subject of smoking because I have gone over my time. 
I shall finish by dealing with the treatment of people who use the air services of this country. Those of us who have to do a lot of travelling notice this treatment, but to those who go for an occasional trip only I do not suppose it matters. Both organisations, Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines, are equally guilty in their treatment of the public. I had always understood that the difference between a charter company and a licensed airline company was that the licensed company had to set up a timetable and had to keep to it unless there was some accident or some explanation for not doing so. But this is not so. With regularity one can book on a plane and find later that the flight has been cancelled. This happens more between Melbourne and Launceston than anywhere else, but it happens also between Melbourne and Sydney. Once upon a time a person could make an appointment in another capital city and know that he would arrive in time to keep the appointment, but today one does not have that assurance. Admittedly the Melbourne to Sydney services are better than any others, but even this morning I rang to book 2 weeks ahead on a flight from Sydney to Melbourne and was told that the flight was cancelled. I replied that when I had wanted to travel on that plane a fortnight ago I was told that it had been cancelled and that the timetable did not mean a thing. If that is so, why issue a timetable? It is a crime to issue timetables and not adhere to them. 
I am coming to something on which I want the Minister to act. I understand that 2 or 3 years ago there was so much uproar about aircraft of both airline companies leaving at the same time that a committee or some other body was appointed to inquire into the matter. I do not remember the result of that inquiry, but whatever it was the flights still leave at exactly the same time. The whole of the travelling public condemns this practice, yet the airline companies do nothing about it. If, for example, 7 o'clock is the best time, surely it would be simple to allow one company to operate a flight at that time for 6 months or 12 months and then to allow the other company to operate a flight at that time. I asked a question about the number of passengers carried because I think the time has come when the Government should review its two-airline policy so that we may avoid this monopoly tendency of the two companies in which they could not care less about the travelling public. The companies will operate under the agreement until 1977. So I presume that in about 1976 things will become a bit better. But it will take a very energetic and a very strict Minister to make sure that something is done at present. 
I understand that a licensed airline company has no right to cancel a flight once the flight is listed on its timetable. What does the Department of Civil Aviation do about it? Even the local managers for the airline companies do not know. I remember arriving at Launceston airport on one occasion and finding that my flight had been cancelled. I spoke to the local manager about it and he said: 'Yes, operational requirements today. We had trouble with it.' I said: 'But it was cancelled a fortnight ago when I rang up. They told me then that the plane was not going.' He said: 'Is that so? They did not tell me.' We get this gumph everytime. After arriving at an aerodrome nothing is more annoying than to learn at departure time that a flight has been cancelled. It is not announced beforehand; it is suddenly announced at the time of departure that the plane on which one had booked is to be delayed 1, 2, 3 or 4 hours, or is not going at all. Surely a passenger has a right to try to get other airline transport if the other company has a flight operating. If the aircraft operated by one company cannot be used, is unserviceable or has been delayed, surely the customers have a right to know so that if possible they can switch to the other airline in order to keep an important engagement. 
It does not. That is nonsense. I travel with Ansett practically all the time. I have complained to the manager time and again about this. In fact I have a rule now that if I am not called for a flight within 10 minutes of the scheduled departure time I ask the reason for the delay. Then we have the situation where a flight is cancelled but the company does not even bother to advise its passengers. Only last week I luckily arrived early at the Ansett terminal. I had booked on a flight scheduled to leave at  12.15,  but when I arrived I was told that the flight had been cancelled and that I had been put on a flight leaving at  12  o'clock. I said: 'How did you know that I would be here in time to catch the  12  o'clock flight?' It was just guess work on their part. As I was walking to the departure door to board the aircraft I saw a doctor from Launceston. I asked: Which way are you going?' He said: 'I am waiting for the  12.15.'  I said: 'It has been cancelled.' He said: 'No-one has told us anything about this.' Luckily I managed to get him onto my flight. Because the customers do not matter, he otherwise would have had to wait in Launceston for  3  hours because he would have missed a connection. These things should not occur. 
We are told that as members of Parliament we receive special treatment, but I find that they take us for granted. Why should we get special treatment? Why should not the ordinary customer using the airlines have the same right to know that a plane is not going? Why should not the Department make sure that the companies keep to their timetables or not issue a timetable at all? In concluding I wish to say that I am supporting the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply and am opposing both amendments. It was obvious that the Australian Labor Party would oppose the amendment proposed by the Democratic Labor Party and that the DLP would oppose the amendment proposed by the ALP. So it will save time if I just support the Government. 
I address my question to the Minister for Air. Last week I asked the Minister for Air for the cost of supplies and spares for Fill aircraft. In his answer he included that cost with the total cost involved in the purchase of the Fills. Why can he not separate the cost of supplies and spares from the total cost and inform the Senate of that amount? 
I have a question for the Minister representing the Minister for Health. How does the Minister correlate her statement in answer to a question about health, that is, that the first consideration ot the Government and the Minister for 
Health was the health of Australians, with the complete lack ' of activity in regard to the harmful effects of smoking on Australians? Is it true that a member of her Party resigned his seat in the House of Representatives to become a paid lobbyist for one or more of the tobacco companies? 
I rise to speak on this Bill because I think it shows the complete subservience of the Liberal Party to the Australian Country Party. That is why this Bill has been presented to this chamber. Also it has medical interest for me because all that we are dealing with in this measure is a symptom. No-one is attacking the roots of the problem - at least, not on the Government side of the chamber. When I refer to honourable senators on the Government side I must say that I am referring to about 8 or 9 honourable senators because all other honourable senators opposite are in favour of what the Opposition has said. I think 1 or 2 Liberal senators have spoken, but there has been very little support for Country Party members from the Liberal members on the Government benches. 
 There  are  2 Liberals and 5 Country Party senators in the chamber at the moment. So far the Senate has dealt only with symptoms. We cannot discuss this Bill without discussing its purpose. 
 Nor can  Senator Webster.  We are dealing with the symptoms of a disease which is affecting the whole of rural industry in Australia. We should really be doing something about rural industries generally rather than handing out $300m to the Australian Wheat Board. 
I shall do so, if I may and if I have the Chair with me. At present we find that the Government has one policy only in regard to rural industry and it is this: 'If you are losing we will subsidise you. Be not afraid: we will help you with a further subsidy.' This has happened to the extent that in the last financial year the total subsidy paid to primary industries reached $260m. I am referring there to direct subsidies only. This has been the amount of direct Commonwealth assistance to rural industry. But apart from that, those in rural industries receive taxation concessions and innumerable other concessions. We find even that they are asking for a reduction in overdraft rates because they happen to be in rural industry. What does the Government do about those in secondary industry who fail? Do we hear of the Government rushing forward and subsidising them? No,  not  one bit. But here is a group of people who, because they have the power and the purpose of blackmail, can force the Government to keep on producing subsidies for their supporters, as a result of which we have before us this Bill to provide $300m. 
 If primary industry has not the ability it should not be there. This is the whole basis and the whole evil of the rural industry at present - the fact that we have so many uneconomic people in it. 
If the honourable senator will hold his horses I will come to that in a moment. If we want to change the policy on rural industry we must first do something about the Tariff Board. Only about 2 people in this chamber realise that the actions of the Tariff Board make necessary subsidies for those in rural industry. Members of the Country Party are trying to get the industry people behind them, but they are cutting their own throats by supporting higher tariffs and at the same time handing out higher subsidies to rural workers. The first thing to do is to look at the Tariff Board and see what it is doing to ruin the prospects of the primary producer. Secondly, where there is economic necessity people should be removed from that industry. Nothing is to be gained by saying: 'We will give you a subsidy; stay where you are. Your father was a dairy farmer - or a wheat farmer - and you are losing money, but do not move; we will jive you more and more subsidy'. People are being given a subsidy to keep them in an uneconomic proposition, as a result of which, it seems to me, the Government is absolutely loading the wealthy people in that industry. They are being handed a gold mine, which is far better than stocks and shares, to remain in a depressed rural industry. 
I am talking of those who are efficient. The efficient farmer is coining money from the subsidies which are given out by the Government. The policy seems to be: Because they are uneconomic we must keep them on a farm. This applies particularly to dairy farmers. We suggested at one stage that a commission should be set up, not only for primary industry but also for secondary industry, and that where people are losing because theirs is an uneconomic proposition they should be given a choice of getting out. In that event the Government would buy their property and make one final payment instead of providing a continuous subsidy year after year. The person who left the property would then be trained for some other job. If there were 2 dairy farms, both on the poverty line, they should be amalgamated. One would have to go. They could toss to see who would remain or choose in any other way, but one would have to go. In that way instead of having 2 uneconomic propositions there would be 1 property which could be economic. The person who left his property could perform some other useful task. That is one suggestion of what could be done for rural industry. 
In the wheat industry there are so many things that should have been done. It is of no use for Government supporters to raise their hands in horror and sneer at the Opposition as though it was able to control the seasons. On the one hand the Government blames the seasons for causing the super-abundance and it says that it cannot control quotas. As to storages, I notice that we have no need for storage facilities in several States because the farmers cannot fill their quotas. Is that not due to the seasons? The Government says on the one hand that the seasons are good and on the other hand it refutes this suggestion. 
I think we will have to leave this until the next wheat Bill comes in as I am already straying a little from this one. I did have a policy about it once and I will give that policy to the honourable senator. 
Yes, that is true. At least I did take sufficient interest to study rural industry problems. I spent a whole day at the University of New England with about 15 people who knew their stuff. Those people were growers, economists, professors and so on. I learned a lot from them - perhaps more than honourable members opposite have learned on the subjects about which they speak. 
When  Senator Little  pointed out that there is an increased acreage of wheat  Senator Prowse  interjected - if no-one else heard the interjection I did - and, said: 'Where did you get those figures? Is that a fact? Of course you are wrong. You do not know what you are talking about.'  Senator Webster  quoted figures to show that there is an increase in acreage. What does  Senator Prowse  know about the subject? It is of no use for the honourable senator to ask me what I know about this subject when he does not know the subject himself. People tend to forget that there is an increase in the production of wheat. As  Senator Little  pointed out even without the increased acreage there is greater production of wheat. When subsidies for increased production are granted this is when the harm is done to the industry. The Government keeps on saying: 'Subsidy, subsidy, subsidy.' I cannot recall in which newspaper it appeared but it was once said that Australia will soon be an empty quarry surrounded by an oil slick. In my opinion the only land that will be visible will be full of wheat silos. 
No-one has ever mentioned it before. We allow the wheat farmers to grow more wheat and then we spend more money putting up silos, and when the seasons about which honourable members opposite speak rectify the position - according to the Australian Country Party - the silos remain empty. But who pays for all this? 
That is rightwho does? The ordinary man in the street pays for this but he does not realise it. We subsidise primary industry. As a result, people living in Great Britain pay 9.8c for milk but in Hobart - the city with the highest cost of living - the people pay 10c for milk. People in the United Kingdom pay 36c for butter and in Hobart they pay 55c. 
I do not have to keep giving the reason why we are doing this. In the UK the people pay 38c for cheese and in Hobart they pay 50.1c. Bacon is 65c in the UK and in Hobart it is 100c. Eggs cost 51c in the UK and 68.8c in Hobart. The ordinary man in the street pays for the inefficiency of the rural industry. Someone has to pay for all these subsidies. 
I do not know exactly but I will find out and let the honourable senator know. I do know that in some professions it is much better to be in the UK on the incomes there than it is to be in Australia on the higher scale of incomes that we have here. 
 I should really point out to the honourable senator that he ought to study his facts before he talks about medical matters. If I am not supposed to talk on wheat then he should not speak on that matter. It is time that the  Australian  Wheat Board took cognisance of the fact that there are different types of wheat grown. I presume the same price is paid on the Australian market for all types of wheat, whether they be hard or soft  I  think I am right in that assumption. 
Thank you. There is no differentiation in price for hard or soft wheat. Surely it is time for the farmer who produces a better quality wheat to be paid a higher price. There is no doubt about this whatsoever. Yet nothing has been done by the Government to rectify this anomaly in the wheat industry.  Senator Little  referred to the sale of wheat to Red China. Originally when I first heard of this it was a question of the Democratic Labor Party refusing to sell wheat to Red China. When I say Red China, I mean the People's Republic of China. But now of course that position has changed, and quite rightly so. Now, it is not a matter of refusal to sell; it is a matter of price. Should we sell wheat to the People's Republic of China at a lower price even though it may be second class or third class wheat? I do not know what sort of wheat it is because we have not been given the facts. 
I said I did not know if it was second or third class wheat. The point is that we are selling more cheaply to Red China. The figures are available somewhere. It is of no use for  Senator Webster  to say that I have been in business and I know that one cannot disclose price. Someone will find out what the price is. It is in the statistical records. I have not got them with me today. 
 I did my homework but I left it somewhere. 
Oh, these  silly  interjections. The honourable senator really has not anything to criticise me about  so  he starts on the argument of the common fees. When he wants to hear the facts  about  the common fees I will be happy to talk about them. He may then realise the truth. The point is that the price paid by China is known, but the quality of the wheat, the insurance costs, the extra costs, interest rates and so on are not known. 
 1 would have done if 'I had thought it was coming up this afternoon. 1 have it somewhere. It is easily obtained. The Minister can easily get the facts from the departmental officers sitting next to him. They should have them. They can send out, ring up or ask the Library before the Minister replies. I am sorry that I have not got them with me. The point is that we have been selling wheat to Red Russia up until 5 years ago without any qualms by anyone. 
 Then the departmental officers must be liars because I just went over and asked them when did we  sell  wheat to Russia and I think that they said 4 years ago, but anyway it was not within the last 2 or 3 years. 
 I am talking about Russia. I quoted the information that was given to me. 'I think I was told it was in 1966 or 1967 but I am not sure. Anyway, we have not sold wheat to Russia for some years, but we may have started again. The point is that  we  have sold wheat to  a  Communist country before - whenever  it  was. There is no reason why we should not sell it to other Communist countries if  we  can get a proper price. 
I support both amendments and I hope that the Australian Labor Party and the DLP can resolve their differences because if they did this would be an effective chamber and the Parliament would be effective. If on minor matters the two major opposition parties did not disagree but had the same concept, and if they got together,  we  could show the people that this House was worth having. I support the Labor Party's amendment and I support the Democratic Labor Party's amendment. I do not mind which amendment is carried. I have only one criticism to make. I do not like the wording in paragraph 2 of the Democratic Labor Party's amendment. It contains the words: 
provide adequate storage to meet the resulting crisis; 
Paragraph 1 of the amendment reads: 
discourage excessive wheat plantings; 
If the Government discourages wheat planting there will be  p.o  resulting need for silos. I think paragraph 2 should read: 
provide adequate storage to meet the present crisis. 
Perhaps I am being pedantic. 
 Perhaps I am being a little pedantic. I believe that the two amendments should be carried. If I had my way I would add to the motion for the second reading the wording of the DLP's notice of motion requesting a royal commission into rural industry. Rural industry needs this money. To follow that course would be a certain way of ensuring that a royal commission into rural industry is held. One only has to talk to the people on the land to realise their plight. They are fed up with the present situation. They do not know where they are. They do not seem to know where they are going. 
 No, not fed up.  They  still returned the Government to office, but they are nearly fed up with the Government. They are getting fed up with the Government because they nearly voted it out. The urban population, which consists of the majority of Australians, undoubtedly is subsidising rural industry. This situation cannot be allowed to continue. I tell anyone who is on the verge of bankruptcy: Do not worry. Join the Country Party. They will give you a subsidy.' To join the Country Party is the easiest way of getting out of economic problems. 
I have not yet seen one Australian who has not been able to obtain medical treatment; so I do not see how we are blackmailing the country. 
Senat or Prowse - I have not yet seen one Australian who has been refused wheat. 
Touche! The honourable senator may be right. I do not think the two instances are correlated. If the DLP has the time and the inclination it should add  to  its amendment the words I have suggested. I do not know whether it is possible for the Democratic Labor Party to add to its amendment the wording of that notice of motion. 
That would ensure that ths motion would be considered. I thank you,  Mr President,  for letting me wander from the provisions of the Loan (Australian Wheat Board Bill). As practically every other honourable senator did the same, I suppose I was entitled so to do. I support the two amendments. I hope they will be carried. 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What is the cost to date of (a) supplies, and (b) spare parts for the F111 aircraft which the Government has ordered. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The total of $A194.7m previously advised as being expended on stores and supplies for the F111 and for the purchase of the aircraft is detailed as follows: 
I wish to ask a series of questions of the Minister for Civil Aviation. 1 asked similar questions of him in the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech and he stated that he would obtain the answers for me. He may have the answers now. I ask: What is the Government doing about the present practice of both major domestic airlines having the same departure times on the same routes? What is being done about the lack of information which is given to travellers when aircraft are known to be late? ls the Government doing anything about the non-adherence of airlines to timetables issued weeks in advance? Finally, is the basic difference between a licensed airline and a charter company that the former must adhere to a timetable? 
I would like to ask the Minister for Air a question concerning the Fill and Phantom aircraft. I would like a definite answer to this question. ls it not true that when the fiasco of the FI 1 1 aircraft became apparent several years ago the Government said that the Phantom aircraft was unsuitable? Did not the Government say at that time that it was unnecessary to inquire into the purchase of Phantoms because they would be required for only 2 years? Is it not true that al that time the Government stated that the cost of the back-up for the Phantoms - that is, supplies and training of personnel - would be too great? What, then j is made the Government change its mind'/ 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave bc given to bring in a Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution by empowering the Parliament to make laws with respect to tertiary education. 
1 ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. What control has the Government over overseas charter flights? ls the Minister aware that some of the charter clubs verge on the fraudulent in that they do not carry out their obligations, to the great distress of members? They cancel flights within a week or a fortnight of the scheduled time of departure.  ls  the ruling that clubs cannot publish particulars of flights until a membership  fee has been paid due to action of the International Air Transport Association or of the Government? 
ls the Minister for Civil Aviation aware, firstly, that on 29th May J 967 an air traffic control officer at Canberra Airport made serious allegations concerning air safety at Canberra Airport, and secondly, that this officer was then technically demoted by being transferred to Sydney but was informed that if he would retract his observations his transfer would be cancelled? Has an investigation been held into the latter allegation - I know one has been held in regard to the first - and if so, what was the result? Was another officer who supported the first mentioned officer in regard to his allegations also transferred, in this case to Brisbane? 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. What was the difference between the estimate and the actual cost of construction of the Captain Cook water spout and of its annual maintenance? Was the Government informed as to this matter before authorising its construction? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Leader of the Government aware that the Senate has sat on 21 days and has passed 9 Bills? Is he aware that the schedule of sittings for the future, including today's, comprises 12 days? ls he further aware that there are 5 Bills on our notice paper and 45 Bills on the House of Representatives notice paper with still more to come? What does he propose to do to get around this situation? 
-I do not apologise for using this unusual method to introduce a subject because it is rather urgent and rather important. It is a matter which is causing a considerable amount of anxiety among the whole medical profession. [ am not referring to the National Health Bill but to a drug called Intal'. This is a new drug for the prevention of asthma in young people and also to help those who have already been on corticosteroid but who are now getting worse. It is an expensive drug. On two or three occasions when I have asked whether any drug has been taken off the list because of cost the Department of Health has said no. It is expensive and costs $9.50. 
Those honourable senators who have witnessed a patient suffering from asthma will realise what a distressing condition it is and the distress that it causes parents. They would agree that any charge for a drug that can prevent or relieve asthma is well worth while. Apart from the fact that it has been said that if we allowed Intal to be a free drug our health bill would go up by millions, nevertheless I point out that fewer people suffer from asthma than the number suffering from hypertension. The drugs for hypertension can cost anything up to $10.27 for 100 tablets, whereas the 50 spine-caps for Intal required cost $9.50 only. So there is a drug already available under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme which is dearer and which is used more frequently than Intal. 
I know that this matter is difficult for honourable senators to understand, so 1 shall have to ask the Senate to excuse me if I explain that there are 3 types of drugs available under our pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Firstly there are the general benefit drugs which any doctor can prescribe if they are listed in the little holy bible that the Department of Health issues to us. If a drug is listed there we can order it for any condition we like. Then there are certain drugs called 'specified purpose' drugs which are to be used by doctors for specified purposes only. In prescribing those drugs a doctor has to put the magical letters 'SP' after them on a prescription to show the Government that he has thought about prescribing the drug and that he, as a conscientious doctor, believes that this drug is the one suitable for this specified purpose. 
Specified purpose. Then there is the group of drugs which requires a special authority, that is, drugs for which, if one wants to use them, one must obtain the consent of the Department of Health through its director in the State in which one is practising. Many of us do not believe that there should be even these 3 categories because the drug which the doctor believes is the one to be used in the best interests of the patient is the drug that he should order irrespective of what the Department of Health thinks. We have heard so much ranting and raving about the National Health Bill and the fact that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has only the welfare of the patient in mind, but we do not hear from anybody that the Minister will do nothing about the Pharmaceutical Advisory Committee and its actions and that he will do nothing to try to help the very patients about whom he talks so glibly. The Minister says that he proposes to help these people under a Bill which in fact does nothing to help them. 
Doctors throughout Australia are very indignant about this matter because a ludicrous position arises regarding the 3 categories of drugs. For the last few years, if a doctor wanted to order cortisone, he found that it was not a general benefit drug, it was not a specified purpose drug, but that it was a special authority drug. Suddenly today it is a general benefit drug. There is no rhyme or reason for this. The same comment applies to a drug called tetracycline. There are more people suffering from infectious diseases which require the use of tetracycline than there are people suffering from asthma. Tetracycline has always been on what is called the specified purposes list; that is, doctors use the magical symbols 'SP' when prescribing it. But even the Department of Health has realised the futility of using this symbol because today, after saying for so many years that we had to use the drug for specified purposes, the Department now says that we do not need to do so. In fact, we can use the drug for any purpose that we think fit. 
The whole crux of the matter is that it is the doctor who knows what is in the best interests of the patient, not the Department of Health. I blame every honourable senator in this chamber for allowing bureaucracy to rise to such power that we cannot get drugs without having to fill out a form which consists of 4 pages and which requires all details concerning the patient. It would take longer to fill in the form that it would to examine and treat the patient. Having filled in the form, the doctor then sends it down to the doctor who represents the Director-General of Health in the State in which the doctor is living, and then this doctor sitting in his office, in Hobart in my case, or in Sydney in other cases, decides what drug that patient, whom he has never seen or examined, should receive. He decides whether the doctor who filled in the form has the right to treat his patient with Intal or not. Can anything be more absurd? Would any honourable senator agree to that if one of their children was affected? I know that every honourable senator would say no, he would not agree with it, but honourable senators allow this situation to continue. 
Intal is only 1 drug. J have got up in this chamber on many occasions and criticised the Department of Health's method of the control of drugs. Here we have an officer of the Department who is not even a specialist officer. In fact, probably he has less knowledge than the general practitioner who sent in the request. Many officers in the Department of Health are drop-outs from general practice. They have reached a certain level of incompetence. I am not saying that of all officers in the Department. 
 I am coming on to this. I have said that the only person who should decide whether a drug should be used or not is the general practitioner or the specialist concerned with the case. If the Government wants to provide for the use of the drug for a specific purpose, noone would quibble with that because the Government sets out in its holy bible of pharmaceutical benefits the 2 ways in which the drug can be used. If the drug was made a special purposes item instead of a special authority item, no-one would grumble about that; it would be a fair thing. 
This has only just happened. I know of only I case in which a patient was referred to a specialist and that specialist, after having gone into the whole history of the patient and having examined the patient, decided that Intal should be used. But what happened? The request came down to- -I will not lose my temper - an unintelligent officer in the Department of Health, sitting in Hobart, who wrote back and said that he disapproved of the use of the drug. Where are we getting to? Time and again we hear Ministers get up in this chamber and say that the Minister for Health is doing his best for the patient. Is the matter to which 1 have referred the best thing for the patient? How many honourable senators agree with the policy? No one of them. I know that if one of their children had asthma and if fatal was the only treatment for it, they would demand it, so why does not the Government allow the use of it? If a doctor wants to use Intal, he has to fill in this form, send it down to Hobart and hope for the best that some nit-wit down there, who has less knowledge than the doctor prescribing the drug, approves of it. 
Why do we go on with this? We allow it to go on and we do nothing about it. We sit on our tails and just allow this thing to go on because we are so apathetic'. This does not affect us, so why worry about it? But it does affect people. It is affecting thousands of people in Australia. A lot of them are young people - children and young teenagers. It also affects many asthmatics in the older age groups. Some honourable senators may become asthmatics, although up to the present time I have not seen such a tendency in them. There are a lot of other diseases that I have noted among them, but asthma is not apparent. No-one in this chamber at the moment suffers from asthma. But if any honourable senator were to suffer from it. would he pat up with this position? Of course he would not. 
have taken up the time of the Senate because I want this anomaly corrected. 1 do not care whether it costs $5ra or $10m. 1 have not got the figures, but I should imagine that it is costing much more to use one of the hypertensive drugs. But that is not the point. If the drug Intal is going to be on the pharmaceutical benefits list, it should be used at the discretion of the doctor who is treating the patient. Nobody else should have any say in it. That is why 1 have raised this matter today. 
Is the Minister for Supply aware that the New Zealand Government intends to purchase 25 Macchi aircraft and that each aircraft can be manufactured more cheaply in Italy? What arrangements has the Government made to ensure that this order will be placed with the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation? 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman-- 

 Thank you, 1 am aware of that. 
Progress reported. 
Sennit  adjourned  at 6.1 p.m. 
I should like to follow up a question asked of the Minister for Supply in regard to the possible loss of a contract for the 25 Macchi aircraft, in reply to which he said that negotiations were going on between governments. Everyone knows that. My question is: For how much longer will these negotiations be going on? Can the Minister tell us whether it is not true that unless we get this order from the New Zealand Government there will be no big order for the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation in sight? 
It surprises me that the Leader of the Government in this Senate  (Senator Anderson),  who has been a Minister for some time, does not realise what he is saying. He should know the duties and the prerogatives of a Minister. He laid down the law to another honourable senator in this chamber just recently when he said that he did not know- 
Yes, and I, too, am going to be very appropriate because the one chance back benchers in this chamber have to discuss Government expenditure is on the making of appropriations. The Minister is quite wrong and I think if we put the question to a vote the Government would be defeated. 
All right, if the Minister wants to put it to the test, let him do so. The point is that this is our only opportunity to discuss these matters. If I have to correct the Minister let me tell him that this is an appropriation for extra expenditure. Is that not so? I did not want to come into this fight, but this flight with  Mr Erwin  was an extra unexpected expenditure which was not catered for in the original Supply Bill. Therefore the cost of that flight is included in this appropriation. 
I do not know, but the Minister has to get extra funds for an extra flight. It was never included in the Estimates. The Estimates cover a certain number of flights. The Minister knows that, and it is of no use for the Minister for Civil 
Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to say that this was a normal flight to Ballarat, that the aircraft just happened to be going there. 
 No, but the Minister inferred it. 
All right, J withdraw that. I will come back to the Minister for Supply then. He suggests that this is covered by item 17.02.10 which relates to search, rescue and fire services. I quite agree, lt could not be more appropriate. This is the time when we senators have a chance to speak. Every Minister and every honourable senator knows that this is the opportunity to speak on the matter. Having said that, f will get out of the fight between  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Anderson  and attack the Minister for Civil Aviation. 1 asked him a question recently in regard to the methods by which the 2-airline system is working, i pointed out that it was completely wrong and there was virtually a Government monopoly. 1 said that it was time that something was done. I must admit that I was terribly surprised to get the usual gobbledegook that one gets from a department. I did not think for a moment that this Minister - for whom I had a very high regard; I thought he was a very efficient Minister - would just shoot off to mc a departmental reply without even looking at it first. He may have looked at it but he just sent it. I am sorry J do not have it with me but I did not know we would get up to this item. The point is that it did not even answer my questions. 
The first point I made was that flights of both airlines leave at the same time and the Department's answer was: 'This is what the public wants'. This is not what the public wants or there would not be so much agitation about it. There are people on the Minister's side of the chamber, the Liberal side, who are just as agitated about this problem and 1 am and there are people on the Labor side who are just as agitated. We represent some millions of people. When we say that we are dissatisfied with aircraft of both airlines leaving at the same time there is dissatisfaction so it is of no use to say to us in a reply from the Department in the usual official journalese that one gets that this is what the public wants. The public wants a different time for each airline. 
Honourable Senators - Hear, hear. 
There are hear hears' not only from this side but also from the other side. There are only 4 honourable senators here, but if there were more - 
Well, 2 back benchers. No-one wants aircraft of the 2 airlines to leave at the same lime. When Ansett Airlines of Australia set up a new timetable ahead of Trans-Australia Airlines within 24 hours TAA changed its timetables to make them the same as Ansett's. Yet the Department says to us in its stupid letter - 1 am glad that the officers of the Department are here because T would like to let them know that I think the letter is stupid although I do not know if they wrote it - that this is what the public wants. They have reached this level of incompetence and they keep writing these letters thinking that this will palm us off and they will not have to worry. No-one has brains but the Department. This is the attitude in every department. So I come back to the point that the people of Australia do not want aircraft of the two airlines going at the same time. 
That would be a change. That is the second point that I raise. The aircraft are now getting later and later and later. Two to 3 years ago one could quite safely say: 'I will meet you for an appointment at, say. II o'clock' and one knew one would get there. Today one does not have that assurance because both airlines are over-utilising their aircraft. I do not blame them because they are expensive aircraft. But the point is that they are over-utilising them and there are none to use as substitutes. I have on 3 occasions in the past 6 weeks had a 2 to 2i-hour delay when another aircraft could easily have been put into service but they do not have other aircraft available because they are over-utilising them at the present time. So the Department should not give me this gobbledegook that they must leave at the same time because this is the hour that the public  wants.  Members of the public want the aircraft to leave at different times. It may suit  someone  to have  a  service leaving at 8 o'clock, but it may suit someone else if the departure time is 8.30. There is no reason why we should not have the  different  times. I am surprised that the Minister for Civil Aviation should have let this letter go past without making any comment whatever on it. 
As was pointed out by the Democratic Labor Party, the aircraft do not leave according to schedule. We would be grateful if they did leave on time. In reply to my question the' Minister pointed out that the difference between a charter aircraft and a licensed aircraft was that the licensed aircraft operated to a timetable and had to keep to that timetable. But if they are not keeping to, that timetable there is no difference between a charter carrier and a licensed carrier. Therefore, we might as well hand over to the charter people to enable them to operate a third or fourth airline. Let me remind the Minister that Ansett Airlines was the third airline for quite a while and was only too happy to be a third airline, but now it has the monopoly of government assistance and is nol prepared to allow a third airline to come into being. Another point to which I objected in my questions to the Minister was the fact that people can sit waiting for an aircraft to leave and not be informed that the departure has been delayed. 
Let us consider an aircraft scheduled to leave at 2 o'clock. Everyone knows that passengers board the aircraft 10 to 15 minutes before the departure time, but passengers can sit there until 2 o'clock when it is announced that because of maintenance or Civil Aviation requirements, or some 
Other  requirements, the aircraft has been delayed and will not leave for another hour. This has happened to me personally. I admit that as members of Parliament we fly much more than ordinary members of the public and that therefore our risks are higher, but  this  has happened to me so often that I have raised the question in Parliament and have pointed out that on 3 occasions this has happened to me. Having raised it with the Minister, next day it happened again. On that occasion I had a very important appointment with 2 other people. We arrived at the airport and one of my colleagues had actually bought a ticket but was not told that the plane would be  2i  hours late because it had not left Melbourne. I saw one of the officials at the aerodrome and said: 'You have not called us on.' He said: 'No, we are 2 hours late.' I said: 'Why not tell us so that we can go with the other airline?' But they will not do that. It is wrong that they should not do that. Does the Minister call this a service to the people? What does he call it? I am not certain what it could be called. 
The Minister has every excuse and tries to pass the matter off, but it is something that happens to many irate passengers who are told at the scheduled time of departure that the aeroplane is not going. Do not tell me that some accident has happened and they have had to postpone the aircraft. I have telephoned the airline company a fortnight ahead and have been told that the flight scheduled in the timetable for the day when I wanted to travel would not be going on that day. Yet other people who do not know would ring up or perhaps go to the airport to try to get on that flight because it is in the schedule. There is something radically wrong with our 2-airline system at the present moment. There is a considerable amount of discontent with the system as it is. We are told that we cannot have a third airline. If that is so, why can something not be done? The Government is making a monopoly of the 2 airlines because they know that they have the Government by whatever you like to call it- 
Shoulder- and the other .airline is a government instrumentality, so the 2 airlines are virtually a monopoly. 
 I ask a question of the Minister for Supply. In view of the fact that the British aircraft industry is one of the best aircraft industries in the world, has the Government ever given consideration to joining with the British industry in the design and construction of such parts of aircraft as we are capable of building? I am not talking about sophisticated electronics. Has any attempt been made to have a joint partnership with the British to build something here? 
by leave - I will be very brief. I am glad that the Opposition has decided to withdraw its notice of motion because it is holding up a very worth while project in the Australian Capital Territory. It is a project that has been proved over the last 30 or 40 years to be a success. The agreement reached with the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in another place, to which  Senator Dittmer  referred, does not alter the position ohe iota because it has always been the case that the dental therapists operate under the general surveillance of dentists. There has been no alteration to the practice. The assurance of the Minister confirms what has always been the case and will continue to be so. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Opposition - by leave - I indicated a few minutes ago to the Senate that by withdrawing this notice of motion the Opposition was not prejudicing the ability of any honourable senator to give notice of motion on the same subject. It has been drawn to my attention that that may not be true. Although the motion must be dealt with within 1 5 days of notice being given, there is a requirement that the notice must be given within 15 days of the tabling of the ordinance. That period of 15 days in this case may well have elapsed. Before the notice of motion is withdrawn it is open to any honourable senator who objects to that withdrawal to do so. In that case the Opposition would not proceed with the withdrawal, thus avoiding prejudice to any other honourable senator. In the absence of any objection now from an honourable senator on the ground of prejudice, I support  Senator Dittmer  and move for withdrawal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Yesterday I pointed out that 1 had not received a certain letter from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I now have that letter in my hand. It contains the typical waffling that comes from any government department. As I said yesterday, I am sorry that the Minister did not see fit to make sure of the accuracy of the statements it contains. One complaint I made was that airlines do not inform passengers when there is delay or cancellation of flights. The Minister states in his letter that he is assured by the airlines - and I am sure that they would so assure him - that when delays do occur the airlines do their best to inform passengers of those delays. But this is not true. Members of Parliament get special VIP treatment, but when they are away from their home State they are rarely telephoned by the airlines to be told that a flight on which they are booked is to be delayed. In fact, one senator was at a committee meeting in this building and, so that he could leave at the last possible moment, he rang the airline and asked: 'Is there any delay?'. He was told: 'No'. When he got to the airport he found that there was at least half an hour's delay. The airline must have known about that before he rang up. 
But that was not the point about which I was complaining to the Minister. I was complaining about people actually being at the airport terminal waiting for an aircraft and being informed at the scheduled time of its departure that there will be an hour's delay, that there will be a 2-hour delay or even that the flight has been cancelled. This happens on innumerable occasions. As  Senator Little  remarked to me, why cannot the airlines co-operate in this matter? After all, this happens with both airlines. When one of the airlines realises that an aircraft will be delayed - sometimes they know that an aircraft has not even left Melbourne when it is due to leave Sydney; so they know that there will be a delay of at least li hours - why cannot it make arrangements with the other airline? After all, it is a knock for knock sort of policy. What one airline makes up on the swings it also makes up on the roundabouts, I expect. 
So, all we are asking is that the Department of Civil Aviation put some pressure on the airlines. The only other answer is to have a third airline to make sure that they work properly. There is no doubt that something can be done about the position. If one of the airlines is aware that an aircraft is late, it should make arrangements to transfer passengers to the other airline. On many occasions aircraft are only half full. Therefore there is. no reason why the airlines should not do that. Surely the convenience of passengers should be considered. 
The other point about which I complained was that aircraft travel at the same time. From the number of 'hear, hears' that I heard from honourable senators on both sides of the chamber, it is obvious, as we represent the members of the public, that they are not satisfied with aircraft leaving at the same time. The Minister said in his letter - I presume that it was written by the Department: 
The paralleling of departure' and arrival limes of the airlines, where it exists, has been criticised on a number of occasions. There are clear cut travelling patterns in Australia and both airlines endeavour to satisfy demonstrated public demand.  I should expect it to move its schedules so as to exploit what it believed to be the advantageous position. 
That is not quite true either. If the airlines wanted the correct times, why did Ansett Airlines change its times and why did Trans-Australia Airlines change its times the following day to catch up with those of Ansett Airlines? Of course, that meant that the aircraft of both airlines again left at the same times. So the statement in this letter is not quite accurate. 
I mentioned most of these matters yesterday. I am just filling them out now. I support  Senator Little's  suggestion that it should be compulsory for an airline to notify passengers of delays and to make arrangements for them to travel by the other airline, wherever that is possible and wherever the time factor will allow that. 
Yes, it will, because if the times of departure are changed a passenger will not have to wait for the airline to transfer him; he will be able to do it himself because he will know that the other aircraft will be leaving half an hour or an hour later. So he will not have to worry. 
The final matter - I raise this again - is the difference between a charter operator and an airline. If companies are given a licence they have to operate according to schedule. But they do not operate according to schedule. It is no good saying that they have to cancel a flight because of maintenance requirements and so on, because a person can ring a fortnight ahead and be told: 'We have cancelled that flight on that day'; but the flight will run to schedule at other times. This is contravening the regulations under which they are given a permit. The Department has every right to clamp down on them, but it does not do so. I raise these matters because we are getting pretty fed up with the  2-airline  policy as a result of the overutilisation of aircraft. There are no spare aircraft. This results in the airlines using their aircraft to the utmost. I do not blame them for doing that, because they are expensive aircraft.. But at least the airlines should think of the passengers occasionally and try to help us instead of helping themselves all the time. 
1 will not make any excuses for taking a little longer than the normal time allotted for 3 reasons: Firstly, because this is a subject about which I know something; secondly, because I am not a (party to the Party Whips' agreement; and, thirdly, the Party Whips never offer me time on the air anyhow. So if 1 take a little longer than half an hour.  Mr Deputy President,  you will have to forgive me. The point about this Bill is that when one tries to study it one is faced with this problem: ls the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  a doctor? 1 have been asked so often whether he is a medical doctor. I want to assure the public that he is a Doctor of Divinity because when you look at the Bill you will see its close connection with the prayer of confession, I think it is called, in the Church of England Book of Common Prayer where it says words to this effect: We have left out those things which we ought to have put in, and we have put in those things which we ought not to have put in, and there is no health in us. 
When one analyses the Bill one sees that that is exactly what has .happened. There are things in it which should never be in it and there are things that are not in it which should be in it. Yet the Minister tells us that this is a health Bill. He goes out to the community time and time again trying to denigrate the doctors by saying: 'The Government is thinking of the interests of the patients.' The interests of the patients be blowed. He is thinking of the interests of the Government in obtaining the electoral vote. That is all that this Bill does. He tells people thai this will be the solution of the problem, lt is no solution because it will cost more, lt will cost every person who wishes to contribute a lot more, and it will cost everyone else through taxation a great deal more too. So in both ways the people will suffer more. 
Quite. The prayer of confession then goes on to this effect: Spare thou them, O God, which confess their faults. That is one thing that the Minister for Health need not worry about because he will never confess his faults. 
Perhaps it is but at least I will be spared if I do, will 1 not? Here we have a Bill which has pious hopes that it will suit the people - pious hopes because the Minister hopes that the public will be better off. How can the Government say that this Bill is in the national interest? Honourable senators on the Government side do not understand it. How many speakers have we had on one of the most important Bills that has ever faced this chamber - the National Health Bill? I think we have had 5. I am the second last. I think that the Government is trying to drum up a couple more of its supporters to speak on it. On other Bills of minor importance we have 20 speakers when we are on the air, but today no-one on the Government side wants to speak because the Government wants to rush the Bill through and get it settled before some election or other. The Government is not prepared to wait, lt waited for 15 years to raise Commonwealth benefits, and there would never have been any complaint about the voluntary insurance scheme if the Government had played its part. The Commonwealth benefit has remained static since 1954. I have pointed that out time and time again. 
All right. I do not want to get into a political fight. Since 1954 there has not been an increase in the Commonwealth's contribution yet everything has gone up in that time. I have pointed out before that parliamentary salaries have gone up by 130%. The Government did not worry about that. The Cost of living has gone up by over 100% yet, as I have said, the Government's contribution to medical benefits has remained static since it was increased by 30% between 1952 and 1954. It has not been increased since then. If the Government instead of waiting  fct 15  years had done the right thing and had increased its contribution to SI. 10 as it intends to do now in relation to item 1 - the commonest example - there would have been none of the present discontent with medical accounts because the gap between an account and the rebate would not have been there. 
The Commonwealth has not played its part with the result that there has been dissent throughout the community. The Government nearly was beaten and was no longer the Government because of this very fact. Let nol the Government say that the reason for that was external affairs. It was social services and the proposed health legislation which nearly sank the Government, so it has rushed in with this Bill and today we are told that we have to get it through before 1st June. It is the only electoral promise given during the last election campaign that the Government can fulfil. What has happened to the promise to reduce taxation? We are told to wait until the Budget, but when the Budget comes along we will not hear any more about it. Already I have heard inklings that taxation will be reduced 'in our term of office' which covers the next 2 years. The Government could not do everything that it wanted to do so it is trying to pin everything on this Bill. 
These are short term proposals but they will have long term effects. I presume that the Government will not be doing anything about this matter for another 20 years so why must we rush it through before we have some clarity? The Government argues about the Australian Medical Association. I admit that we doctors are in trouble and that a lot of the fault lies with the AMA because it has not studied what the general practitioner wants. The result has been dissent in the profession. It must have been exceedingly hard for the Minister to find out what he should do when even the medical profession did not know. It was not until the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  mentioned the $5 difference that the medical profession suddenly became aware of what had happened. We did not mind the common fee and we did not mind the differential rebate until the $5 came into it. 
That then brought right into the limelight the fact that the Government is denigrating the general practitioner. It is saying now that a general practitioner surgeon who does an appendix operation will not be paid as much as will a specialist although he does the same job and does it just as well. Do not tell me that all specialists are good. There are variants in all professions. A patient can go to a specialist and be ill treated. That happens quite often. The general practitioners woke up to the fact that we were to be denigrated and, no matter what  Senator Lillico  says, the result will be that we will not have general practitioners. The Government is worried now about the shortage of general practitioners but there will be a greater shortage in due course. 
I find the Bill extremely hard to study. If any person in the Commonwealth, apart from the Parliamentary Draftsman, can tell mc what is meant by the following I will be very happy to know: 
Where a medical service rendered to a person includes a medical procedure that would, but for this sub-section, itself bc a medical service, that procedure shall, in respect of that person, be deemed not to be a medical service. 
Honourable senators may laugh but there it is. We are expected to know and understand that. I know that the Minister will explain what it means but to anyone- 
 That is the Minister's job. How is a person expected  to  know what that means? When one reads this garbage to anyone one becomes a laughing stock. It is so essential that we rush this Bill through in the national interest. In the national interest we will let  a  woman have a mammaplasty for $5. That is essential. We are also going to allow them to have their faces lifted for $5. Is there anything more absurd than to waste our money on face lifting when there  are  other things which are more important? 
Yes. Face lifting comes under item 8037 in one of the Schedules to the Bill. The Government will  have  to pay $147 and the benefit fund will have to pay $98, but the patient who undergoes this luxury operation - it is only a luxury because  there is  no necessity for it - has  to  pay  only  $5.  If  a woman wants her breasts enlarged the Commonwealth is happy to do it at a cost to her of only S5. This is absurd. Anyone who has studied the Bill will realise what will happen. Under item 7921 the Commonwealth will contribute $96 towards the cost of a woman having her breast inflated. I am now looking at the wrong side of the House; I should address my remarks to the Government side. The benefit fund will meet $64 of the cost of this operation, which costs up to $150 or $160. But a woman can have such an operation for $5. The same situation will apply in regard to a face lifting operation. The taxpayers' money will be wasted on operations of this nature, but the Government is of the opinion that they should be included in this legislation. I believe that operations of this nature should be omitted from the legislation. There is no sense in having in legislation which covers such a wide scope the provision that every operation will cost the patient only $5. It is said that the scheme would work if it had not been for the Commonwealth. 
I have said that differential rebates should be abolished. It is agreed that all specialists should be paid more for the operations which only specialists can perform. But there are certain operations which both specialists and general practitioners can perform. In the field in which both can perform an operation there should be no differential rebate. Therefore, in the field in which only specialists perform the operation a differential rebate is not necessary. There should not be any differential rebate at all. The one fee should be charged for the service no matter who performs it. if a general practitioner performs the service he is entitled to the same remuneration as a specialist.  Sir Clarence  Rieger, who is the  President  of the Australian Medical Association, gave evidence to the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. He was a general practitioner in the country. I asked him: 'Do you think that your surgery was inferior to that of a person in Sydney or Melbourne?' He would not answer my question. Of course he did not, otherwise he would not have done it. Yet he is now advocating that general practitioner surgeons should get less than specialist surgeons. What will happen in the country areas where there are only general practitioner surgeons? Why should they not be paid as much as the Sydney man? Are they not doing the same operation? Are they not doing it as well? Does a patient not put his faith in him just as much as he puts it in any other doctor? 
I am trying to get through my speech as fast as I can. 1 come now to the question of common fees. There is nothing wrong with having common fees so long as they are not used as a schedule of fixed fees. We are quite happy with them provided a very simple thing is added - an updating or what could be called a review of the fees at least once very 2 years. Do not let me go into a long dissertation about arguments with governments. The AMA is still arguing with the Commonwealth Government about the fee for treating pensioners. Every 6 or 7 years or whenever it is we try to get a rise, we are unable to come to an agreement. We come to a sort of compromise conclusion but we have never come to an agreement. There will be no agreement. The Minister for Health says: Yes, we will review the situation. We have a plan". The Government has had plenty of time to work out a method of up-dating fees. A simple one would be to tie them up with the cost of living. Tie them up with the salaries of parliamentarians and we will all be happy. At least we know that we will be paid. But do not give us the story that up to now the Government has not been able to find a solution to the problem of up-dating or reviewing fees, because no-one trusts the Government. 
Look what it did to the chemists. I am not saying whether the Government was right or wrong, but the point is that it promised the chemists, who had not had an increase since 1961 - 9 years - that it would go to arbitration. The Government went to arbitration and the arbitrator said that he would give the chemists an increase. What did the Government do? It said: 'We do not agree with the arbitrators method*. So out it went Although the chemists have not had an increase since 1961 they are still not certain whether they will get an increase. The same situation will apply in relation to the common fee. Actually, the common fee will be automatically up-dated because it is not a price control measure. It would be much better if the Government were to say that it will review the situation at least once every 2 years, which is a fair enough proposal. 
The Government does not have a firm policy about referrals. It is a well established fact that the cheapest form of national health service is the general practitioner service. It is the basis of all national health services throughout the world. But in this instance when a referral system is wanted the Government does not know what to do. Everyone is putting up different ideas about such a system. There should be a distinct referral for each service. If the Government does not apply this condition it will find that its bills are astronomical. Suppose a general practitioner sends a woman to a physician. The physician can send her on to a surgeon, gynaecologist or ear, nose and throat specialist - or all 3 of them - without the woman having to go back to the general practitioner. In other words it would be done through the specialist. A person should be referred only by a general practitioner. I am not talking about pathology and radiology because they do not relate to consultations. They are straight out technical matters. But if a referral system is adopted it must be from the general practitioner to the people concerned. 
The Minister for Health has said that this Bill is in the interests of the people. Both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select Committee agreed that physiotherapists should be included in these provisions. Therefore, why are they not included? Has the Government not had time to do so? Why have they been excluded? Whenever it suits the Government it says: The Nimmo Committee said that we should do this and therefore we are doing it'. But whenever it does not suit the Government it forgets about the other things which the Nimmo Committee recommended. What about the things which the Senate Select Committee recommended? The Government is so frightened of the Senate Committee that it will not even recognise it, but the Committee brought forward some very sensible suggestions. 1 wish to refer now to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, and raise a matter which is causing great concern to not only the pharmaceutical industry - the chemists - but also the doctors. An anonymous committee of 6 doctors and a couple of pharmacologists was appointed by the Government from a panel. These people make the decisions and advise the Government on various matters of procedure, such as what drugs should or should not be on the pharmaceutical benefits list. Their decision is final. Let us take a look at this matter. There is nothing in section 101 of the National Health Act which says that the membership of the Committee shall be anonymous. There is nothing in the Act that says that the Committee shall not give the reasons for its decisions. When 1 rang up today I was told that this is a matter of policy. Therefore, it is Government policy. Therefore, it is the policy of the present Government. A different Liberal Government could be in office tomorrow and its policy could change. Why should the Government not change its policy? Every time the medical profession raises the question of the ludicrous actions of members of this Committee the Government says: 'We have no power over them'. That is a deliberate lie. The Government has power. It has every right to say to that Committee What are your reasons?' It has every right to publish the names of the members of the Committee. The Government has every right to publish its findings, but it does not. Because it is Government policy the Government will not mention its reasons. So the membership of the Committee remains anonymous. 
Let me tell the Senate a few of the ludicrous things that the Committee has done because the public should know. I have mentioned them before. I know at least 2 of the members of the Committee and they are 2 of the most upstanding men in the profession. I have a high regard for both of them. 1 think they are excellent men. I think it is their association with the Commonwealth Department of Health which has made them a part of this ludicrous band of humorists. 
I shall outline to the Senate some of the mistakes which the anonymous people who decide what we are able to prescribe have made but for which no reasons have been given. Firstly, I wish to refer to a triple compound tablet which the Department of Health wishes I would forget about mentioning. It is called Amesec. The Committee withdrew it from the pharmaceutical benefits list because it said that it was a triple compound product and as every human being differs the 3 ingredients in it should be varied for each individual. It did not matter than 95% of the population could take Amesec. The Committee threw it out. No reason was given for doing so. I asked the Minister for Health whether it was on account of the cost of it. He said that it was not. The Committee left a rival's triple compound on the pharmaceutical benefits list. Apparently the deletion from the list applied to 1 product and not to another. Within a few weeks of deleting the product from the list, the Committee added a third. Can anyone follow the workings of that Committee? It deleted 1 product. In the end it gave its reasons because the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners was so incensed. Finally the Committee said that the ingredients had to suit each person. What did the Commonwealth Government do? It said that the doctor could write out in full the 3 ingredients and the chemist could put them into a capsule. The doctor has to spend time writing the 3 ingredients instead of writing 'Amesec'. The chemist has to make up the capsule. The patient suffers. He could have bought 100 Amesecs for 50c. Now he is allowed only 12 at a time. If he could get 100 capsules it would cost him $4.50. That is another ludicrous position. The Government forgets all the time that every mixture that is ordered in any pharmacy is made up of 2 or 3 ingredients. Surely if this principle applied to triple compound drugs it should apply to triple compound mixtures. We cannot find out from this Committee why it has deleted Amesec from the list. 
Suddenly aspirin is no longer suitable for the human body. Why? Because certain people took 60 or 80 aspirin tablets a day, which caused some side effect. It caused some bleeding. Suddenly aspirin is off the pharmaceutical benefits list because it is harmful. Big brother knows what is best for us. The Government deleted aspirin from the list. A doctor can order aspirin for pensioners. The Government does not worry about the pensioners. It does not mind if they die or bleed. The pensioners can have aspirin, but everyone else who wants it can no longer have it. Can the Government explain why? Can we ask for an explanation? Phenacetin was deleted from the list for the same reason. Stupid people who took 80 tablets a day had trouble with their kidneys. If they want to take 80 tablets a day I hope they have trouble with their kidneys. Obviously they have mental trouble, otherwise they would not take 80 tablets a day. 
I do not know, I am sorry, but you are getting close to home now. Phenacetin was deleted. Doctors are allowed to prescribe a new drug called paracetamol'. It has now been shown that the end result from paracetamol is the same as the end result from phenacetin. I do not know what the Committee is doing about paracetamol yet. The Government has not told us. This is what doctors have to put up with with this Committee. 
The drug companies have to put up with worse. They submit to the Committee a drug that they want evaluated and accepted so that the public can use it. lt is turned down. Why is it turned down? Nobody knows. The Committee is anonymous, says the Minister. The Government will not say. Should not the Government try to help the drug companies rectify their fault? Should not the Government try to help everyone so that these drugs can be put on the market? No! The Government does not say anything to anyone about them. Then we have the stupidity of the specified purpose drug. That term was cooked up by the Department of Health because it could not think of anything else or because the Attorney-General frightened it into thinking that it might be liable, if a patient used a specified purpose drug which caused some side effects, to be sued; so the Department of Health put 'SP' on certain drugs as a method of getting out of its legal obligation because the doctor will have realised that it is an SP drug and therefore the blame will fall on him. I do not think that argument would hold legally. 
I forget for how many years - about 10 years - tetracyclines have been SP drugs. Doctors are not allowed to prescribe them unless for a specified purpose. Suddenly in the last issue of the list of drugs the SP has gone. Is there a reason for that? 
I know that 'SP' sometimes means starting price. The honourable senator has raised that point before. Why has it gone from the list? Why suddenly is tetracycline safe for doctors to prescribe for any disease whereas before we had to prescribe it only for a specified purpose? I mention cortisone also. Up till this last quarter a patient could not get cortisone unless he had a special authority. One would think that if the Committee changed its mind about cortisone it would include it with the specified purpose drugs, but the Committee has made it a general benefit, lt is free now for everyone. Doctors can prescribe it for any disease. At one stage they had to write and get a permit to prescribe it. 
Previously 1 have mentioned the stupidity of thinking in relation to barbiturates. The Government wishes to stop drug addiction in Australia by not letting people have more than 25 barbiturates - sleeping tablets - at night. Who needs them? Once again the Government has forgotten the pensioner. The old person needs barbiturates more than anyone. Previously doctors could prescribe 100. Now they can prescribe only 25. Instead of the pensioner coming up for his 3 months supply of sleeping tablets - I a night - he now has to come up 4 times, for which the Commonwealth pays the doctor 4 times and the chemist 4 times, to stop the poor pensioner becoming a drug addict at the age of 70 or 80. Anything can happen. This is the stupidity that doctors have to put up with. The Government does nothing about it. It knows about it. It has been told about it. But it does nothing about it. The Committee will allow doctors to prescribe 50 milligramme capsules of nembutal. Doctors can prescribe 100 of those. If the doctor tells the patient to take 2 of those a night he can get over the Commonwealth's restrictions to a certain extent because the doctor will be able to prescribe enough capsules for 50 nights. 1 refer to the psychotrophic drugs, which doctors are not allowed to prescribe. A general practitioner does not know anything about his patient! He cannot know what he ought to order. There are so many of these new tranquillisers and anti-depressant drugs now and the general practitioner is hopeless! Who knows best? The Department. Psychiatrists are not allowed to prescribe those drugs in private. They have to prescribe them in hospitals. The patient has to go back to the hospital every 3 months to get another certificate to say that he is entitled to have more of these and then the doctor can prescribe them. Who is to decide the fate of the patient - the Department of Health or the doctor treating him? 
Recently I spoke about Intal. The Government shows the most ludicrous, the most stupid and the most callous disregard for patients by making doctors fill in a 4 page document so that they can prescribe that drug to treat asthma. It is put on the pharmaceutical benefits list as a specified purpose drug. It v/ould have been just as simple to say that it should be used for a specified purpose. But no. I have mentioned  a  case in which  a  general practitioner sent  a  patient to a specialist to ascertain whether the patient should be on Intal. The specialist, who is one of the top ranking specialists in Australia, said: 'Yes'. He wrote - I will not say to where - to the capital city. Doctors have to write to the capital city and ask the Commonwealth Health Officer in that city. Who is this Commonwealth Health Officer? Where does he come from? What special knowledge has he? Where did he graduate and how did he get this special knowledge sitting there doing vaccinations and other duties? He knows best! He knows more about that patient whom he has not seen! He knows that the patient should not have the drug so he says that the doctor cannot prescribe it for the patient. Can honourable senators imagine anything more stupid or more callous? Any honourable senator who had a member of the family affected would be up in arms and would say that this system is nonsense. It is ridiculous and nonsense that the Department of Health can do it. Does the Department do it because of cost? It is not cost because, as I have pointed out, it costs $9.50 for 50 spinecaps whereas there are dearer drugs for hypertension and for other illnesses as well. These bureaucratic people have risen to the height of their incompetence. They do not know what else to do so they try to make everyone else incompetent so that they cannot deal with anything. Who should deal with the patient? The doctor should. AH honourable senators would agree with that. The Government says that there is indiscriminate use of drugs. 
 You would trust your doctor, would you not? If he said that you needed Intal would not you accept that? 
 I am not talking about overprescription. I am talking about the necessity to use the drug. Overprescription occurs in any field, but doctors do not have to write to the Commonwealth for general benefits prescriptions. So why do they have to write for Intal for an 18 year old? Why do doctors have to put an adult on cortico-steroid - until he has had 7.5 milligrammes a day - before they are allowed to prescribe Intal when probably Intal would have stopped him prescribing cortico-steroid? How does the Government get out of this? It says that the Advisory Committee suggested it. How do we know the Advisory Committee suggested it? Whom can we trust? 
That is for  a  different purpose. I refer to the Pharmaceutical Advisory Committee. The Government has lots of little bodies such as the Therapeutic Substances Committee which kills half the people. Today another drug has been discovered which has been described as the greatest breakthrough since penicillin. Where is it? It is called bactrin It is made by drug companies. One cannot obtain it unless one is a patient in a public hospital. If one is in a private hospital one cannot get it. This drug has been tested. An honourable senator mentioned the evaluation of therapeutic substances. This is another aspect which is so ridiculous. Bactrin has been tested in the United Kingdom and the United States. It has been passed by the people in those countries. But it has not been passed in Australia. Australia has set up its own therapeutic substance branch and it will deny this drug. Today one cannot have that drug. It has to go through the hospitals first. Yet my daughter in London is allowed to take it. lt is good enough for her but it is not good enough for Australians. This drug has to go through our bureaucratic system. 
That is quite true. Caution is necessary. But if you had displayed the same caution with penicillin and bad not taken a risk one million or two million people in this world would have died. It is possible to drop dead from an injection of penicillin. But doctors still prescribe it. Thalidomide was an accident which everyone regrets, but the point is if you are going to hamper everything by this attitude you will never advance in medicine. This is a fact of life. But the Government has tightened up. There is a drug evaluation committee. The drug bactrin has been passed by the Drug Evaluation Com,mittee in the United Kingdom and in the United States. But this is not good enough for us. All right, let the Committee have a look at it. Why not give a tentative licence? 
It is for infection. Most physicians say that it is the biggest breakthrough since penicillin. 
Yes, if you become a patient in a public hospital you can get it. 
Yes, of course they are using it here. But doctors in private practice are not allowed to use it. We are disturbed by the Department which seems to think that general practitioners know nothing. It is only the health officers employed by the Government who know anything. I deeply resent this attitude. 
And who orders it in the hospital? 
Yes, all right, one could say that. Just recently someone said that when be was a resident medical officer he could order any dangerous drug he liked, but now that he has reached maturity and he has experience he has to wait on the Commonwealth Department of Health to say which drugs he can use. In a hospital this drug bactrin can be used by the resident medical officer who has had no experience when compared with a general practitioner who has been in practice for some time. It is not good denigrating the general practitioner. 
No, he would not. 
No. A lot of these drugs are put on the list to be used in hospitals only, and then 6 months later or 3 months later they are taken off and provided for the next category such as 'special authority' or 'specified purpose'. It is only a safeguard. A lot of drugs that are provided at the moment as tranquillisers do have adverse affects if accompanied by or followed with alcohol. But doctors are allowed to prescribe them. We are allowed to prescribe them if they are for a pensioner. This is what annoys us. Doctors are not allowed to order tranquillisers for a human being in Australia unless that person happens to be a pensioner. When he becomes a pensioner something radical happens to his body and we doctors have the free right to order for him whatever we like. This is stupidity which cannot be overcome. Why when one becomes a pensioner he is immune to the disgusting tactics of the general practitioner, I do not know. The Department goes to the extremes with bowel mixtures. If an ordinary human being wants to evacuate his bowels he has to take his medicine in a nasty form, but a pensioner is allowed to take an emulsion. 
This is what I suggested at the meeting of the International Pharmacy Guild when 1 spoke there. I suggested that perhaps the Government was trying to get rid of its liabilities to pensioners. We are allowed to give pensioners aspirin. We are allowed to give them practically anything we like. 
We doctors are helping the Government. I just wanted to point those things out to honourable senators. We have to rush this complex Bill through tonight. We must be in Committee tonight. 1 understand there will be only five or six speakers. Now that I have prodded honourable senators we may have a few more speakers. But the suggestion is that this Bill is not important - let us not debate it because we do not understand it. The Government has said: 'We want the legislation. We must put it through.' So we will put it through. All I ask is that honourable senators support the amendment. lt may be difficult because the Australian Labor Party has a proposed amendment which is eliminated by the Democratic Labor Party's amendment. 1 would suggest that when we do go into Committee, if this amendment is defeated we should ask leave to report progress because I think it should be known by now that there is complete disagreement between the establishment of the Australian Medical Association and all 3 general practitioner groups. There is no doubt about that. Four notices of no confidence have been passed in the AMA in 4 different States. One was nearly passed in my State of Tasmania. I asked the general practitioners not to pass it because 1 do not think it does doctors any good, and we defeated it in Tasmania. But there is a division within the AMA. There is no doubt that the AMA is going to have a terrible setback on 1st and 2nd June. There is no doubt at all that the 3 general practitioner groups have combined; that is, the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, the General Practitioners Society in Australia and the general practitioners section of the AMA. These groups disagree with the AMA. Honourable senators can see how bitter the feeling is between the general practitioners and the AMA. 
Yes, they have. I think I can say that in every State we have agreed what should be done. We are not doing anything which will hurt the public. We have given a better deal to the public. That is why I ask honourable senators to wait. At some time or another I would like honourable senators to support the DLP amendment. If they cannot do this I ask them to support an amendment which will be moved in Committee. 1 ask honourable senators to do this because, for the first time, there will be a real assembly of the Australian Medical Association. Each delegate to the assembly has been authorised by his own branch. They had never been authorised on these subjects before, lt will be interesting to know what happens at this assembly. 
It varies depending on the numbers from each State. 
I do not know. Like all general practitioners I do not take much interest. 
The trouble has always been that the general practitioner works at nights when the meetings are held. He never gets to them. I know it is his own fault. Nevertheless, it is a serious fault. He does not get to the meetings because he has to go out at night. He has evening surgery. 
Yes, it is true. The general practitioner never gets to these meetings. 
If the honourable senator could understand the Bill and especially the clause which I read out she would understand the length of time it is going to take to do this. It is a very complex matter trying to get unanimity between all States because of distance and so on. There have been telephone conversations in an attempt to get things done. I admit it should have been done more quickly but agreement has now been reached. I have always said that if a national health scheme is to work there must be co-operation between the government and the doctors. It is no use being at loggerheads. It would much rather see a scheme acceptable to general practitioners and the government. 
Time and time again doctors have asked for the provision concerning ophthalmologists to be altered. Can honourable senators understand it? If I refer a patient to an eye specialist at any time and, in the course of looking at the patient's eyes the specialist finds glaucoma or diabetes, or anything else, and he says the patient will be better off wilh glasses, the moment the glasses are prescribed the patient is precluded from the benefit. If the specialist had not prescribed the glasses the patient would have obtained the benefit. It is part of his duty to test eyes for refraction as well. We asked the Government to do this thing but it keeps on fighting because there is another pressure group saying that it does not want it. 
Is the honourable senator talking about the ophthalmological one? 
No, we are not arguing about the $5 one. They still have that. We are not arguing about that at all. I think the honourable senator will find that the general practitioners are not arguing in regard to that. I do not think there is anything in it that will be of any harm to the patients. We would like to see, or at least I would like to see - put it that way, because I am not on any of those committees although 1 am a member of all those societies - co-operation between the Government and doctors. If that is done we will get a better health scheme. It is much better to have a scheme whereby everyone is working together and then we can change it. If anyone can show anything that the doctors have suggested that will be harmful to the patients I will oppose it. 
I quite agree. I cannot very well oppose that. I am sorry; the honourable senator got me on the one that 1 cannot oppose. Nevertheless, this is what we ask and I ask honourable senators to consider seriously waiting till after the assembly. 
They did have a meeting at which the delegates had been instructed earlier but, you see, the matter has to go to a branch and it has to go to a division. It is a very slow process by the time it gets to the top and then when it gets to the top it is a bit too late. But they have now agreed. I am not saying that the doctors are not in the wrong. They should have been united right from the start. But they have now got together at last and they have some agreement and they think they can make a better health plan of it. We think that there should be an amendment. 
Whose pocket? 
The general practitioner is not going to be worse off either way. 
No, I think the fact is that all the general practitioner groups have agreed now. There are only specialists and so on. That is a different argument. But 1 think honourable senators will find that this meeting will produce a result. That is why I think we should wait until after this meeting. We should agree to this ophthalmological proposal by putting a clause into the Bill. Also, it is time we put a clause into this Bill to make it compulsory for the Minister to publish the names of the members of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. He can publish them today but he will not. I think it should be made compulsory by a clause in the Bill to give a reason for the refusal to place a drug on the pharmaceutical benefits list. I am not saying why. The reason given as to why these people should remain anonymous is that these well known people who are leading lights in the profession are subject to pressure. I cannot mention any names, but 1 am sure that the 2 whom I know of would be a bit horrified to think that any drug company could apply pressure to them. But this is the Minister's argument and it is time we got out of all this. So I ask honourable senators to support the amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Party. Later on, if that is defeated, I will move another amendment during the Committee stage. 

 Senator MARRIOTT (Tasmania) [5.59.1 - I just want to set the record straight before the suspension of the sitting.  Senator Turnbull  referred to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  - I know he meant it in a larrikin way but it is in the record - as a doctor of divinity. That is, of course, not right, and if there had been any decency at all that would have been corrected by the honourable senator at the time when he made his supposedly funny reference to the Minister. I had expected to follow a speech that would be of great interest to the Senate and of value to this debate because  Senator Turnbull,  is. I understand, a doctor. I know that he has been a Treasurer in Tasmania, I know that he has been a Minister for Health and I know he has been a self appointed specialist to the Royal Hobart Hospital, and we have heard a lot about medicine and health from him from time to time. 
Sirring suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I ask the Minister the same question. Why cannot the Department of Health be given full powers by making proposed new section 9b read: "The Minister may provide, or arrange for the provision of vaccine for the purpose of immunising persons'? It seems absurd that an Act has to be passed every time the Department of Health thinks free immunisation should be available for any disease. No State government will object if it is given free immunisation material. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [4.40] -  Senator O'Byrne  spoke about vaccination. I believe that he felt that although it is not dealt with in this Bill there should be more conscious feeling concerning the problem of smallpox. We do, of course, have very strict quarantine laws concerning smallpox and there has not been a case contracted in Australia in the last 32 years. There is a very real appreciation of this as regards our quarantine laws. 
-I would like to clarify that. There are charges for pathology and X-rays in certain public hospitals. 
 But the point we are dealing with does not concern beds. And the Commonwealth benefit is paid? 
 You said except for them. The Commonwealth benefit is paid for pathology and radiology? 
Question put: 
That the request  (Senator McClelland's)  be agreed to. 
I am speaking to this clause because I want again to put before honourable senators the question of a postponement. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in this place, has read out information about dissensions and has mentioned the results of plebiscites. She said that another assembly is coming and that it would not be a special one. it is a special one because normally we would have one assembly only each year. This is an additional one. If you do not call it special, at least it is extra. 1 am quite happy for the whole Bill to go through the Committee stage until we come to the Schedules. I do not mind which way it is done, but I think that when we reach the Schedules we should pause because this is one of the contentious parts of the measure. It is no good blaming the profession completely for the present situation. I admit that members of the profession are very dilatory, but nevertheless there is no dispute about a differential rebate. Everyone believes that there should be some increased fee for specialists, but it was not until the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced the$5 maximum that a completely different perspective was put on the whole proceedings. As soon as we realised what was happening the question of differential rebates went by the board because we felt that it would do the greatest harm to general practice. 
Do not let us get into the question of general practitioners being mercenary because the general practitioner will do quite well whatever happens. We arc trying to maintain the status of the general practitioner. That is why we want the question of differential rebates held over until such time as the new assembly can discuss the matter. If the assembly supports differential rebates I shall not say another word. If that is what the assembly wants let it have it. As a matter of fact I am not very interested in differential rebates, except from the point of view of the $5 which in the result would lower the status of general practitioners. I do not want to canvass the whole story of general practice, but I think all honourable senators would realise that there is  a  shortage of general practitioners. We do not want to do anything to denigrate the general practitioner any further. Consequently I suggest that we report progress and ask leave to sit again. Alternatively, if the Minister feels that we must get through most of the Bill 1 shall move for a postponement when we come to the First Schedule. Another point which was mentioned by  Senator Byrne  and  Senator McManus  is that we have not had dme to go through the amendments. I looked through them quickly this morning while listening to other debates. I hope that we were not expected to sit up last night and go through them. 
But they are people of intelligence more able to cope than I am. So that the debate may be postponed i move: 
That progress be reported. 
I have no emotions whatsoever about this matter but I do recall the clarion call of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  that we are doing the best for the people'. 1 think that  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin who represents the Minister in this place also delivered a speech about 'we are doing the best for the people'. What is best for the people? We are not talking about what is the best for the ophthalmologists or the optometrists. We are talking about ordinary people who are referred to an eye specialist to have their eyes examined. When a patient's eyes are examined by an eye specialist the patient is entitled to a special item fee. But if the eye specialist goes on to say to the patient: 'Following my examination I find that you need glasses', this is part of the examination. You cannot separate them, but he does not receive the special item fee. Are we thinking of the people or of whom are we thinking? 
No. This is what I was rising to speak about when  Senator Sim  rose. The optometrist does not suffer. The eye specialist, having told his patient that he needs glasses does not provide them. He hands a script to the patient and the patient goes to the optometrist and gets his glasses. 
 I refer people to optometrists, but when I think that they need referral to an eye specialist I do that, and the patient is entitled to an extra benefit when I do that. 
 I am not opposed to that. If you think the optometrist is entitled to it, get the Government to do it. We are talking about the fact that at present when a general practitioner refers a person to an eye specialist he does so because he is worried about the health of the patient. Perhaps he is thinking of the best, interests of the patient when he says: You had better go to an eye specialist and not to an optometrist'. But the optometrist still receives payment for the glasses. The eye specialist does not give the patient glasses. He merely writes a script and the patient, goes to the optometrist to get his glasses. There is no injustice to the optometrists. If honourable senators on the Government side feel that the optometrists should receive a benefit, they should get the Government to include that in the Bill. 
All right. The profession is opposing the fact that the Government is not including this clause.  Senator McManus  said that the AMA in its submission to members did not mention the Ophthalmological Society. That is only further proof of the fact that the AMA does not represent the doctors as a whole. I assume that what happened in this case  -  I do nol know - is that the Ophthalmological Society is only affiliated with the AMA although ils members as individuals are members of the AMA. I suppose the AMA thought that the society would take its own case forward, but I do not know whether that is true. 
lt could well have been an omission but I may be wrong there too. All we are deciding today is whether, if a patient is referred by a general practitioner to an eye specialist because he thinks that is in the best interests of the patient, he should lose the benefit simply because the eye specialist says: 'You need glasses'. 
-If a member of the Liberal Party goes to an ophthalmologist who prescribes glasses, will he say to the ophthalmologist: 'Do not do that because I will not get the benefit'? He will think that it is part of the treatment. 
I did not give evidence to the Committee. 
 I understood that we agreed amongst ourselves on this point. 
Then we have left it out. We have been remiss. When the ophthalmologists appeared before the Committee I made it clear that I was in favour of their submission. I have never said anything else. We have been canvassing this for some time now so 1 merely say that I support the motion. 
I know that the Senate realises the difficulty that the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has with these complicated matters. 
lt was difficult. The Minister did not understand  Senator Greenwood's  question. She made the statement, which everyone in this chamber knows, that if a patient gets his eyes tested and no glasses are prescribed he gets the benefit but if he gets his eyes tested and glasses are prescribed he does not get the benefit.  Senator Greenwood  asked, as did  Senator Wood,  why that should be so. Why does the Government have this differentiation between an optometrist and an ophthalmologist? When  Senator Gair  asked the Minister about that, she said that the provision has been in the Act since 1954. That is not a reason. There should bc no differentiation between an optometrist or an ophthalmologist. One should not have an advantage over the other, but one has an advantage over the other. One is a trained doctor and the other is not. If the Government accepts that principle why does it not include in its definitions chiropractors? They carry out professional services. Surely the Government does not want them to be at a disadvantage when compared with doctors. This is nonsensical. 
There is only one point at issue. A patient has to be referred by a general practitioner to a specialist. It is much easier to say 'eye specialist' than it is to say 'ophthalmologist'. The patient sees the specialist, who looks in the patient's eyes and says: 'You have a tumour. You will need treatment, but it is impairing your vision. In the meanwhile have this prescription'. The patient gets no benefit. If the specialist said: 'You have a tumour. You have impaired vision. Get the hell out of here', the patient gets the benefit for that. How crazy can the Government get? I just do not follow the scheme. 
-I am sorry that the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  has intervened. I am quite happy to adopt that principle if we do so with every Bill. 
In future we will not discuss anything. We will abolish Parliament and go back to bureaucracy and autocracy. That is what the Minister's suggestion amounts to. 
The Minister should not be stupid. That is a stupid remark. 
No, I am not getting my own medicine. A study of the records of this place will indicate that my attendance is pretty good. Sometimes I am not in the chamber because I have to prepare my own. material. But I have a blower in my room and I can listen there if 1 want to. If the Minister wants to be in the bar he can go into the bar or anywhere he likes. 
He can go into the billiard room. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Bull)Order! Senator Turnbull,  you will withdraw that remark. 
I withdraw it without reservation. The Minister can go into the billiard room as often as he wants to. 
I wonder who started this? I have just said that I have the figures relating to my attendance in this chamber, if the Minister wants to see them. I will produce them because they show that my attendance in this chamber is better than the average attendance of other honourable senators. Whether I am in this chamber is my own business and not the Minister's. Let us get back to the Minister's proposition, that every honourable senator in this chamber- 
I wish to make my position clear to honourable senators because I do not intend to vote on this amendment. I think it is necessary to adopt a pragmatic view in regard to this matter. The circulation of propaganda has always been regarded as a perk of office. I do not think it matters whether the chamber accepts or rejects the amendment because it will not alter the habits which Ministers have adopted over the years. Regardless of one's political complexion, one would do the same thing if one were in office. I think that this amendment is redundant. All Ministers circulate propaganda material, regardless of their portfolio. They usually try to have their picture included, too. This material is sent to as many people as the Government will permit. I think honourable senators have to accept that this is a fact of life which should be left alone. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be inserted  (Senator  McClelland's amendment) be inserted. 
But why mention them specifically? Why not have an open charter? I am giving the Minister a free hand in this, something which she should be accepting. After all, immunisation against rubella was introduced only in the last 2 years. There is still doubt about measles in general. But nevertheless this is only just a recent thing and - who knows - tomorrow there may be another immunisation procedure that would be of benefit to the community. The Government would then have to bring in an amending Act. . I hope everyone is in favour of this. We are offering the Minister an open cheque here so that whenever she believes there should be an immunisation substance provided for the States to use she can go ahead and provide it. That is the reason why I raised the matter. 
My proposed amendment relates to clause  8.  [ will be brief. First of all, can we clarify the meaning of the expression a medical service that is rendered by, or on behalf of, a medical practitioner'? What 1 am interested in is the question of physiotherapists being included in the Bill. Now, if a general practitioner refers a patient to a physiotherapist, could it be said that she or he is acting on behalf of the medical practitioner? If that is so I do not have to go any further. If it is nol so- 
This is it. The physiotherapist gives service on behalf of the medical practitioner, but, of course, the physiotherapist sends her own account. 
That answers my question no. 
I think technically it may nol be that it is done on behalf of the general practitioner. 
But I say to the physiotherapist: 'Would you carry out the service on my patient?' 
Yes, on the patient, lt would not come under this. 
Then perhaps I should move that the Committee report progress and ask leave to sit again as a test vote on whether the Committee believes that physiotherapists should be included in the medical services because 1 have had time to speak to the Parliamentary Draftsman only casually. There have to be a couple of draft amendments and I thought it was no use getting these draft amendments done if the Committee is going to disapprove of the principle. 
I would not mind if there were referral by a general practitioner. In other words, I doubt whether it will ever be done. But it could be done and 1 would not be opposed to that. What I want to see in the Bill is a provision that anyone who is referred by a doctor of physiotherapy treatment should obtain some benefit. That is all I am trying to get. But I do not want to go to the trouble of having the Draftsman - in fact, we do not have the time - prepare an amendment if the Committee is not in favour of the motion. I thought the easiest way to deal with it would be to move later, after o:her honourable senators have spoken, that we report progress and ask leave to sit again. Then, if that motion is defeated 1 will take it that the Senate does not want physiotherapists to have anything. If the motion is accepted, I can then get the Parliamentary Draftsman to draft a proper amendment to the Bill. I do not know whether the Committee is in favour of having physiotherapy included for medical benefits. If it is I will move later to that effect but in the meanwhile I would like to hear whether anyone on either side is in favour of the proposition. 
I understand that I should move to postpone the clause to a later hour. Would that get over the problem? I am not trying to be difficult. 
Very shortly I will move, in fairness to the Minister, that further consideration of this clause be postponed until 8 p.m. so that she will have time to discuss this matter with her advisers. We are getting deeper and deeper into the mire or into the oral cavity; I am not sure which. 
No. I would never be rude to the Minister. We are really getting into a mess. People keep on interjecting, and I realise how difficult it is for the Minister. I believe that we should have a break and return to this clause at 8 p.m. so that the Minister can take advantage of the dinner interval and come back with answers to the questions that have been raised,  Senator Greenwood  has raised an important one. f. do not think the Minister has answered him fully. 
I am not sure what an oral surgeon is now. Does the Government mean what we call a doctor or will it classify a dentist as an ora] surgeon because he operates in the mouth? Is that what is meant in the Bill? I do not know and the Minister does not know. Can she answer that question? The main point in the mess we are in at the present moment is that we are talking about a prescribed medical service'. That means that it has to be in the First Schedule at the moment. Being in the First Schedule, it then has to be prescribed by regulation. The Minister tells us that she does not know what are the items that are already in the Schedule, but that there is a working party in existence and it will tell us later what those items are. But at the moment we arc being asked to pass a Bill under which the Government will prescribe certain items in the First Schedule. I have asked the question: What are those items? Can the Minister get her advisers to write them down?  Her  advisers are not even taking any notice. Perhaps she could ask them afterwards. 
What we want is answers to these questions: What are the prescribed medical services that are envisaged in the Act at the moment? What is the definition of oral surgeon'? Why does the service have to be rendered in an operating theatre? I asked the Minister that question before, but she did not answer it. 1 admit that many services would have to be performed in an operating theatre. But if the service involved happened to be a prescribed medical service that did not need to be rendered in a theatre but could be rendered in a bed, why would the service have to be rendered in an operating theatre? I think most of the services would be performed in an operating theatre; but why exclude the ones that do not have to be? 
I have raised this question before, as has  Senator Greenwood:  Why does the clause say 'a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner approved by the DirectorGeneral'? First of all, what is the difference between a legally qualified dentist and a dental practitioner? Have we a definition of those 2 terms? What is the difference between them? Why are they separated in the Bill? There must be a reason. Is the reason legal? I do not know. Could we find out? Then, having found that out, why does the dentist or dental practitioner have to be approved by the Director-General if he is legally qualified to do this work? We do not want Big Brother to say which ones are to render the service. If a person wants to choose A and not B, let him do so. Why should Big Brother tell him that he has to go to B and not to A? Could we have an answer to that question? If an oral surgeon is what we know as a doctor - a man qualified as a doctor of medicine and surgery - he does not have to go to an approved hospital. A while ago the Minister was saying that an oral surgeon had to work in an approved hospital; but if he is a medical man that does not apply to him because he comes under paragraph (a). So, I move: 
That further consideration  of  the clause be postponed until 8 p.m. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [5.38] - May I speak to that motion? 
I. must support the amendment The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has stated that the Government has given an undertaking. I would be happy with an undertaking from the Government if I could trust the 
Government. Let me give honourable senators facts and figures about this. They will see for themselves whether they can trust the Government. The Government introduced a scheme of medical benefits and for over IS years it has refused to increase its contribution to the scheme although, as I have pointed out time and time again, the cost of living has risen over 100%. The Government has not increased its contribution. I suppose it is reviewing its contribution. 1 expect it is having a working party. But 15 or 16 years have elapsed. The Government having made a promise to the people, it sits on it. lt does not review the scheme. The Government gives an undertaking that it might look at the contribution again. There is no way of getting the Government to do that. 
Let me take the case of the chemists. I am not supporting the chemists or opposing them. I am not saying whether the amount of money given to the chemists in the first place was too high or too low. The chemists had an agreement with the Government. A figure was reached in agreement between the chemists and the Government, lt was also agreed that when the chemists felt the figure should be increased they would go to arbitration. I think it was in 1961 that they went to arbitration. This is the year 1970. 1 am not quite certain of the exact time of the arbitration but the point is thai the last increase was in 1961. When the arbitrator decided in favour of the chemists the Government said that the arbitrator did not take into account certain details, etc. lt gave an excuse. I do not care what the excuse was. But excuses were brought forth and the Government refused to accept the arbitrator's decision. Is this the Government one is supposed to trust when it gives an undertaking which is not even written? The chemists had a written agreement with the Government that it would be subject to arbitration and that the chemists would accept the arbitrator's decision. But the Government did not accept the arbitrator's decision. With great indignation the Government pointed out that the arbitrator did not take this into account and did not take that into account. Why did the Government not point these facts out to the arbitrator at the time? If it did the arbitrator must have noted these points but he still arbitrated in favour of the chemists. Yet the arbitration was a complete washout. Nothing has happened since 1961. 
Honourable senators may ask why doctors have very little faith in the undertaking. They have only to look at the fact that about every 2 years a fight takes place about the pensioner medical services. Every time the Government is going to look into the service. I expect there is a working party in the Department of Health. 1 do not know because I am not on the executive of the Australian Medical Association. But I do know that the doctors finally accepted a compromise, under duress. The Government is looking into the matter again, and so it goes on. Another fight will occur when the 2-ycar period is up, and on and on it will go. The Australian Democratic Labor Party stated that it had not been advised of the amendment by either side. I do not think the DLP ought to vote for the amendment, but that is up to its members. The 2-year period in which the schedule of fees shall be reviewed is insufficient. When do honourable senators think is soon enough for parliamentary salaries to go up? 
It is not 6 years; it is only 3 years since the last one. 
I expect so, as soon as the elections are over. I would not mind betting my seat in Parliament - no, I had better not do that because they might deliberately not do anything, so as to get rid of me. 
Thank you, but I would not mind betting a substantial sum of money that after the Senate elections are over our salaries will go up. 
I have every reason to say it because we have not had an increase, as the honourable senator pointed out, for 3 years. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Bull)Order!  I suggest that the honourable senator gets back to the clause. 
Yes, I will come back to this clause. What I am pointing out is that there is no guarantee on which to accept the Government undertaking. Two years is supposed to be too short a period. The Government at one stage agreed to 3 years. I do not know where that proposal has disappeared to. In fact, I have heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  mention this 3-year period and say that there would be a review in 3 years. The medical profession says 2 and with the rate of galloping inflation I think once in 2 years is quite sufficient. I do not mind if the Government makes it once every 3 years. Surely that is fair enough. There is the reverse suspicion that if we have this every 2 years the medical profession will put its fees up, but the common fee is not a set fee. It is not a price control and no honourable senator will insist on it. In fact, in my practice until I sold out we were always - as I have pointed out before - charging 50c more than anyone else, 50c above the common fee. So honourable senators would then say that we have gone up 50c already, but that is not true. Some charges are just above the common fee. The common fee is what most people charge but there are many people who charge more. 
The argument of the Democratic Labor Party is that if we have a fixed period and the rate is upgraded then the doctors will raise their fees too, but is not the purpose of the review to make it an equitable and just upgrading? It would be argued that if the cost of living had risen by only X% that is all one could expect the common fee to rise. If we do not have an upgrading every 2 years the doctors themselves will put up their fees when they feel that inflation has hit them. There is nothing to stop them doing that. Then the Government will have a new review of the common fee, the computers will point out that it is higher and the Government will be in trouble again. So for that reason I think it is far safer to keep the common fee at a set level fixed to some index if we have a review once every 2 years. The other reason for having it every 2 years is a very sound one, 1 think, because if the common fee - with every justification - should go up to a certain figure agreed to by the Government and the AMA, then so should the Commonwealth contribution. 
And the fund benefits, but 1 am not worried so much about the fund benefits because that is a matter for the people's pockets. It is their own contribution. But the Government, of course, would be faced with the necessity to do it. That is the real reason why the Department has set its face against this time and time again. If the doctors' common fee went up the Department would have to put its common fee up as well. I think it is quite logical. The Government is doing more harm to the principle of the common fee by not having a review. Suppose the Government does not have a review. There is no doubt at all that if within a year inflation has soared the doctors will put their fees up just like anyone else does, lt is of no use for the 'Daily Telegraph' to growl about it. It has just put the price of its paper up by 2c. 1 think that is a 50% rise, is it not? It has every excuse in the world- 
Well, the newspaper proprietors blame rising costs or whatever they like to put out. They have just raised their prices. They feel this is necessary and so it is done, but when anyone else wants to raise theirs then it is tragedy. So 1 suggest that honourable senators should support the amendment because this is a better reason for the concept of the common fee. This will stabilise the common fee far more than it will be stabilised if the Commonwealth does not accept the amendment. 
I shall speak once more because I want to put on record that I have warned the Government about this matter. If a set period is not inserted and if in the next quarter there is a considerable increase in the cost of living the Government will not be able to deny the right of the doctors to raise their fees if they wish. This will ruin the whole concept of the common fees. I think most doctors are prepared to accept the common fee, if the Government treats them properly. They have to be assured of a review - not merely promised one. I have shown that doctors cannot accept the promises that are made. The assurance has to be written into the legislation. If the Government fixes a set period I am certain that most doctors will keep their fees at the present level until the end of that review period which, it is suggested, should be 2 years. If the Government does not do that, the doctors will not know when the next review is to be. In the next quarter it is quite likely that we will have a rapid increase in the cost of living. When the next cost of living figures are given the doctors will have every right to raise their fees, just as has the baker to increase the cost of a loaf of bread to meet rising costs. The same situation applies with hospital fees. No-one complains about hospital costs which rise enormously. Virtually every year the costs and the fees rise. 
The Government is asking the doctors to help implement this social service scheme. They are prepared to do so but only if they are given an assurance. I warn the Government that if it does not insert a clause providing for a fixed period doctors will have no faith in the Government. In fact, they have no faith in the Government now. If a fixed period is inserted, the Government is committed to that period of time. 
It asks for 2 years. The Government could make the period 3 years if it wished. I think 3 years is too long a period with the inflation from which we are suffering now. I think 1 year is too long. That will be verified by the next quarter's figures. I must warn the Government. If a fixed period is inserted I think the doctors will play ball with the concept of the common fee and keep to that common fee until the end of the period. If a fixed period is not inserted, with every quarterly increase in the cost of living index the  doctors  will raise their fees. The Government will have no-one else to blame but itself. I want to correct something that was said about the Nimmo Committee report. The Committee said that every 3 years a review should take place. I know that the Prime Minister favoured 3 years but the Minister for Health objected because the Department did not want to have to increase continually its contribution. The Department realised that if the review were every 3 years the doctors would have every right to increase their fees and the people would have every right to expect the Government to increase its contribution. 
This brings me to my final point, because the matter may as well go to a vote. Why does the Government wave the Nimmo report when it suits the Government to do so? Why does it not wave the report all the time? The Government has not carried out all the Committee's suggestions. The Government should not say that the Nimmo Committee said something and forget to add that the Nimmo Committee also said something else which the Government is not implementing. It is very simple to pick out the best things in a Committee report and utilise them for your own convenience. There are other matters in the Nimmo report which the Government should be introducing if it has so much faith in that report. It does not recognise the report of the Senate Select Committee. It is a wonder that the Government has not moved an amendment to the Opposition's amendment to make the period 3 years because that was supported by the Nimmo Committee. I will not say much more. I warn the Government that if it wants the concept of the common fee to work it must insert in the Bill a time factor. Otherwise the doctors will not feel bound in any way to the principle and will raise their fees with every increase in the cost of living. 
I wish to thank the Minister for bringing in such a wealth of information, some of which does not seem to be relevant. Nevertheless, she is having a very trying time. I congratulate her on her sense of humour in being able to stand up to this and even be able to laugh with us about it. We all realise the position that she is in. Apparently a prescribed medical service is not to be prescribed but rather will be prescribed in the future. The Minister has mentioned only 3 items that are prescribed but has stated that by regulation the Government will in the future prescribe a few more, subject to the approval of various people. I do not think that is the way to deal with a Bill. 
Why  were  these prescribed services not thought of before?  The  Minister keeps talking about our having a week to study this Bill, but the Government has had it for months and has done nothing. 
The second point is: Why must a prescribed medical service be rendered in an operating theatre? Admittedly many things have to be done in an operating theatre, but item 3137 refers to a 'tumour, cyst or scar, removal of cutaneous, subcutaneous or in mucous membrane' up to a certain length. Depending on the particular case, this could be a very minor thing for a dentist. L doubt whether a dentist would ever be involved with this other than as a result of an accident in the dental chair while he is making an incision when he may incise the mucous membrane. I think the Minister's advisers have had to think very hard to include that item. This piece of surgery may not occur in an operating theatre. There is no necessity for it to be done in an operating theatre as it could be done in a dental chair. 
The other 2 items referred to were 6601 and 6596. Those items refer to the same thing, except that one is external and the other internal. Item 6601 is the treatment of a fracture of the maxilla, which is the bone of the upper jaw, with external fixation. In other words, it is not oral surgery, lt is not within the mouth, lt might be necessary to manipulate it with a blunt instrument in order to lift it in the very rare case, but I doubt that it could be done because there is the sinus alongside it. I am trying to give the Minister every benefit. This external fixation has nothing to do with the mouth, although this is near the mouth, and is not oral surgery. The situation is becoming fantastic. 
Apparently I mentioned the wrong one; it is the internal one. 
I refer next to item 6596 which more than likely would have to be done in an operating theatre, although it need not be done there. Many people work wilh local anaesthetics and many dentists have quite well set up rooms where they have anaesthetics of their own which they use when extracting teeth. A dentist - I suppose it would be a top dentist - would he able to carry out the procedures mentioned by the Minister, the 3 procedures which now have become only 2 prescribed procedures. In effect we  are  having all this fuss about 2 procedures.  I  cannot accept that these have to be rendered in an operating theatre. If  they  have to be performed there, well and good. 
 But dentists do not go into an operating theatre. 
 I think that the Government will  make  them go into operating theatres.  There are  2  ways  of handling this matter. One  way is  to admit a patient to a hospital. This costs the patient a lot more money. 
 It is necessary to make appointments, but  it is  done. We have been giving anaesthetics for them. I would  say  that about 60% of all dental extractions under general anaesthesia are done in doctors' surgeries or dental surgeries. 
No.  I am giving a rough assessment. After all, I gave anaesthetics for years. 
 It. is oral surgery. That term includes  any  operation in the mouth. A dentist  may have  problems in removing an impacted wisdom tooth and might  have  to incise the  gum.  That is surgery. 
Therefore it is not prescribed.  You have,  told us of only 2 things that are prescribed and 1 should not be in the Schedule at all. 
-f-Ye$. That concerns  a  tumour, cyst or scar, removal of cutaneous, subcutaneous or in mucous membrane. If the trouble is inside the mouth it will be prescribed for in this legislation. That could be treated in a dental chair without any trouble. I think that the Government is bringing trouble on itself. You will increase greatly the cost to the Government. We are not trying to hinder you. We are trying to help you. You would have got this information in another place but you did not allow people there to give it. You sit and say: 'The Government decided this'. We are asking you to listen. There are people with brains outside the Department of Health who think about these things. I appreciate that the Minister has to listen to her advisers, but there are other people who are equally talented and have other opinions about the same things. The Minister has not really told me who are oral surgeons. Every dentist can be an oral surgeon - by definition. There is no definition of an oral surgeon in the legislation and I think there should be. 
Yes, but it is probable that that would be performed in hospital. 
 Not oral surgeons, oral surgery. Even taking a tooth out is oral surgery. I do not like the provision which concerns an operating theatre and I think it should be removed. But a far more important provision to which I take exception is that which discriminates against people who are qualified. You are going to get a committee to say that only certain of our dentists are to be allowed to do this work. Dentists are legally qualified. You have taken an example of minor surgery. It was not my example. You are going to say to dentists: 'You are not allowed to do this unless you have the approval of the Department.' I do not like that. I think we are becoming crazy if we have to have the approval of the Department, or even the recommendation of the dentists to the Department so that the 
Director-General can give approval. It does not matter who gives the approval. The point is that approval has to be given. 
I now fully understand that some people are called qualified dentists and some are called dental practitioners, but I still cannot accept that the Director-General must give approval. A dentist is legally qualified and is therefore entitled to do the work and the Government should have no say in it whatsoever. I would like to see that provision removed which states that approval Qf the Director-General is necessary. The provision should relate to a prescribed medical service that is rendered by a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner, and a full stop should appear after the word practitioner'. I do not think the Government has a right to insist upon approval. I think I will foreshadow an amendment that we delete the words relating to approval by the Director-General for the purposes of the definition. I will foreshadow that proposal after the vote has been taken on the proposed amendment relating to the operating theatre provision. I do not believe that the Government has thought about this matter. If you give any thought to it you must agree that the provision relating to the operating theatre is monstrous and nonsensical. I will foreshadow an amendment. 
Now that we have had a full description of what this clause was supposed to have meant and we have removed an injustice by deleting the words 'in an operating theatre of an approved hospital', I wish to remove another injustice. Therefore, I now move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the following amendment: 'In sub-clause (b), in paragraph (b) of the definition of "professional service" leave out the words "approved by the Director-General for the purposes of this definition".'. 
Taking into account the amendment already agreed to, this would make paragraph (b) read:  a prescribed medical service that is rendered by a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner; 
I move this amendment because I have just as much faith in the integrity of the dentists as 1 have in the integrity of the doctors. The point is that if a legally qualified dentist thinks he can do a job he should not have to wait for the approval of the DirectorGeneral before he does that job. No dentist will fiddle around with the fixation of a mandible unless he is a qualified oral surgeon. Usually he will have the qualifications of both a dentist and a doctor. In that case he will not need to rely on paragraph (b) because he will come under paragraph (a). If a dentist is qualified to carry out dentistry or oral surgery I, for my part -I do not know what the rest of the chamber thinks - believe that it is discrimination against him to make him subject to the approval of the Director-General. I do not want to flog this point. I spoke about it before. I simply move this amendment. 
It is unfortunate that the representative of righteous indignation has left, having made his little speech, but what we are really debating at the present moment is: Has the Director-General the right to approve or not? I have suggested we delete that bit because I do not believe in it at all. If the Government feels so strongly about it perhaps it could arrange a working party to investigate the possibility of reinserting here the words 'members approved by the Australian Dental Association*. That, takes away my objection although I do not think we should have that. I think the Government is carrying things to the lengths of absurdity. It is worrying about these people. The Minister said that they have to be highly qualified or experienced. She said 'or experienced' and not :and/or'. They do not have to bc both, do they? They can have a senior degree or they can be experienced without a senior degree. The Minister has prescribed only 3 things, lt is so ridiculous that she should keep on arguing about deletion of this approval. She has referred to tumours, cysts and scars in the mouth. A resident dental officer or junior dentist could deal with those without any problem ur all. 
No. polyps and things like that. I think the Minister even mentioned the maxilla. Let us face it, a dentist who has a complicated fracture is not going to try to deal with it. He will hand it over to one of his colleagues, so 1 think it is a little redundant to keep on stressing that these people are going to try and do it. The Minister has only 3 items. We have been promised more in the future. 
I would like the Minister to tell us some more because they are pretty weak ones that she has suggested. 
We might be more convinced.  If  one is legally qualified to do the work he can do it. One does not have to be approved by the Director-General. Why have him in at all? Let the Australian Dental Association do it if we must have somebody to discriminate. Again, ifI may use an analogy in regard to the medical profession, it is not one's peers who judge one, it is the general practitioner who judges the specialist. He is the one who refers cases. Everyone can have a degree these days. In fact, every young boy, as soon as he leaves, gets a senior degree. It is going to get to the stage where everyone will have a senior degree. It is the general practitioner who realises that A is a much better practical man than B. They may both have senior degrees but he knows and he is the judge of what should be. So I do not think that if the Government leaves it to the Dental Association it will get them picked. The man who does the referring knows what sort of a person he is referring to- someone whom he can trust and in whom he has confidence. We have argued so much on this that if the Minister feels we ought to postpone the whole Bill I will be happy to move this for her. 
Question put: 
That the request  (Senator Turnbull's)  be agreed to. 
I am nol very happy about this amendment. Some aspects of it are good. But there is no doubt, as the Minister has said, what will happen if we accept the amendment. People will insure with a fund prior to having an operation, and after they have had their operation they will drop their insurance and reinsure again in a year or two. We have not got sufficient time to consider these matters. We are always rushing. Could we not bring forward an amendment - of course, we could postpone consideration of the Bill - to provide that anyone who has not had an illness for 2 months prior to joining a fund would be eligible to receive the benefits? What I am trying to gel at is this: lt often happens that people join a fund in good faith and they either have an emergency operation or suffer an emergency illness. Obviously they would not be faking either of those things. 1 feel that it is rather harsh to disqualify those people from receiving benefits, especially when we consider the huge reserves held by the funds. ls there any way of combining what I am suggesting with the proposal which is contained in  Senator McClelland's  amendment? He is seeking to repeal the 2 months waiting period altogether. Perhaps we could provide that anyone who has not suffered from an illness for 2 months, or 3 months if you like, prior to joining a fund is eligible to receive the benefits. That would eliminate liability for some operations because some people would wait 2 months to have an operation if they knew that they would be eligible to receive the benefits. ls there some way of getting this provision into the Bill? I would be happy to vote for an amendment along those lines, but I am not happy to vote for the amendment as it presently stands. If  Senator McClelland  would like to withdraw his present amendment, think about the matter and introduce a new amendment incorporating what I have suggested, I would be happy to vote for it, but I will not vote for the amendment as it presently stands. 
I am no: quite clear about this matter. I presume that it refers to public beds where a charge is made for X-rays and pathology. Is that one of the things? 
Yes, and also lo intermediate beds in public hospitals. Would this have application to intermediate beds in public hospitals as well? 
We have not had time to discuss these things. We have been sitting here all day and I am trying to find out: now what it all means. The Government has working parties for every darned item in the Bill. We have not. We must try to find out this information by extracting it very slowly. 
That is right. 
All right. The Minister has made her case several times but even then we have had to get explanations. All I want to do is have the matter clarified. Does this mean that in public hospitals for intermediate beds there is no Commonwealth payment? 
But it should. If you are in an intermediate ward do you get the Commonwealth benefit? 
The medical benefit. I am just trying to find out about this matter. I want it to be clarified. The time is rapidly approaching when honorary systems in hospitals will be eliminated. I am not certain whether the Government has a working party on that, but it is obvious that that change is coming. Once the honorary system is eliminated obviously the public hospitals will have to be able to recoup the money to pay the former honorary staff who will become salaried staff. They will therefore charge for those services and will expect to get money from the fund benefits. Therefore the Commonwealth should pay. If the Commonwealth pays, this relieves the State hospitals of a certain amount. I believe that when a patient leaves a hospital he can sign a form directing a fund to make a payment direct to the hospital. If we accept the proposed amendment it will help the State hospitals. On that ground alone I think we ought to accept it. But there is another problem. There is no doubt that the time is coming when out-patients will be charged. I think again the Commonwealth can say: 'We give grants for hospitals in the loan funds and therefore we do not want to give them again in benefits.' I think that any medical services should attract not only a fund benefit but also the Commonwealth benefit. Therefore I am inclined to vote for the proposed amendment unless I hear something to change my mind. 
I thank  Senator Anderson  for his elucidation but I still have a problem in my mind. Some public hospitals do charge for services like X-rays and pathology. I heard an interjection that a charge is made in the public wards of the Mater Hospital in Brisbane. Perhaps the officers can tell us whether that is so. 
Services.  Senator Gair  - No. 
Not in the public wards? 
But in some other States I believe a charge is made, for services like radiology and pathology. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [10.28] - Exceptions are made in respect of pathology and radiological services because such services were not generally available in private practice. Section 19 of the National Health Act provides: 
The Commonwealth benefit is not payable in respect of a professional service where the medical expenses in respect of that service are paid or payable to an authority conducting a public hospital or to a person or body of persons acting on behalf of an authority conducting a public hospital. 
Butthe exceptions are in the cases to which  Senator Turnbull  referred - mainly pathology and X-rays. Where a fee is charged for these services a benefit is paid. 
It is terribly amusing really to listen to the Government - I will not say the Minister, because she is only representing the Government - suggesting that this Bill is for the people, that the Government is interested in what is given for the people, that the Bill is for the patients and everything is for the patients, and that the Bill is being rushed through for the patients. 
Yes, that is true, but here is a clause which is for the benefit of patients and the Minister opposes it. If it is not for the benefit of the patient, who does it benefit? 
Yes, but the point is that these people may have to wait 2 or 3 years for their compensation. 
Even 5 years. It is sickening that the Minister should oppose an amendment presumably because it has been introduced by the Opposition. If the Government does have consideration for a person who has been a patient it will support the amendment. 
Thank you very much. I appreciate that the parties should be informed- 
 I do not care whether I am the leader of a party or not. Every senator is entitled to be informed. I do not have that stupid attitude that a person has to be in a party so that he can have his mouth shut and not have any conscience of his own. The honourable senator may be happy to take that attitude, but I am not. That is why I resigned from the Australia Party. The point is that I too heard rumours - but only rumours - that it might be done. No-one said a word about it. We did not even hear what the Mininster said. All right, the Minister wants to recommit. 1 do not know why he wants to recommit. Now he says that there are certain factors. Does this mean that every time the Government is defeated we will have a recommittal? 
 Never mind about that. The problem is this: What happens if we lose a division because someone is where he should not be? We do not even know the circumstances officially as to why this has to be done. Why cannot the circumstances be made official? If the Minister does not want to  make them official he does not have to, but if the Opposition is defeated and then says that one of its members through a misunderstanding was not present, will the Government recommit the Bill? Would not that be reasonable? 
Well, what are the circumstances? The honourable senator says that it depends on the circumstances but we are not told what the circumstances are. I think it is just a case of the Government high hatting and doing what it wants to do. It thinks it has a chance of winning back the clause so it asks for a recommittal. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be inserted  (Senator McClelland's amendment)  be inserted. 
As I understand the amendment, it means that if a person is not insured he will still be entitled to the Commonwealth benefit. I am sorry, but I have to oppose this amendment because it cuts right through the roots of the voluntary health insurance scheme. We have a voluntary scheme and we have to put up with it. If people want the other scheme, it is a matter of changing over. But at the moment we have a voluntary scheme. One of the points about this provision in the Act is that it does help to make sure that people insure themselves. If we did not have this provision in the legislation, people would not need to insure at all. This amendment cuts- right through the roots of the scheme. Therefore, I oppose it. 
I hope honourable senators will excuse me if I do not enter into the controversy between the two philosophies. I would like to correct a statement that was made on 2 occasions. It is that there are too many medical benefit funds. There was some objection to this. May I point out that there was overwhelming evidence given to the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs that it was the smaller funds that gave the better benefits. So if one wanted to cut out any funds one should cut out the 2 or 3 bigger ones and then where would one be? By discriminating against the smaller funds and reducing the numbers one would have cut out the ones that give the better benefits. I only wanted to clear that point up. 
It sounds very interesting and intriguing that a review of pensioner medical service fees is to take place. It depends what honourable senators call a review. If you want a monologue I suppose you could call it a review. If you want a dialogue that is is no review because when the Minister for Health and the Australian Medical Association have come together agreement has never been reached. On each occasion the AMA has come back to the branches and said: 'This is the best we could do', which I suppose is reasonable. The point is that the AMA accept a compromise. It cannot get arbitration. Whilst I support this proposed amendment I do not think it goes far enough. Provision should be made for an arbitrator. I understand that certain legal difficulties exist in having an arbitrator. The Government does not even agree to its own arbitration and that makes another difficulty. As I said before, the chemists having won the arbitration, the Government said that it did not agree with the arbitrator. This is a complex problem and I do not know how it is going to be overcome. One would think the Government would listen to a case presented by the medical profession which is the only profession subsidising the national social services bill. No one else in private enterprise helps pensioners. 
I am not aware whether there are other people with bigger incomes who could also help. Perhaps the lawyers .could. The honourable senator would not know because he would not earn a bigger income. Those who do have bigger incomes, such as members of the legal profession, do not subsidise social services except through taxes, in the main. 
-The lawyers tell me they do aid in social services, so I withdraw. But some sectors of the community do not. The doctors are expected to give a subsidised service. The common fee varies from State to State but on .the average it would be $3. The doctor obtains $1.85. I have not been in the pensioner group for some time. I think the figure is $1.85. There is no denial of that, so I will say that it is $1.85. The normal fee is $3. The Government's argument is that once upon a time the doctors were not paid for their services, which is nonsense. There are many honest pensioners. In fact, my colleagues and I in the medical profession were much better off in the old days before the introduction of the national health scheme because, although we had bad debts of 30%, we adopted the old principle of slugging the rich to pay for the poor, which has always been accepted by the medical profession. 
Opposition senators will probably argue that we are slugging everybody, lt is only a matter of opinion. 
I do not mind the honourable senator saying that, lt is a question of what he thinks about his general practitioner. However, here we have a subsidy of $1.85 for pensioners when the normal fee is $3. I can provide statistics to show that, because of inflation, doctors were far better off in 1952 in relation to pensioner patients than they are at present. lt was far better in 1952 to have pensioners, as a liability, if I can use that term, than if is to have them at present. The Government argues that the pensioners did not pay their medical expenses. I do not agree. Many of them in those days paid their medical expenses. Anyway, we were better off having them as a liability in those days than we are operating under the present system. 
If the honourable senator does not believe me he should take a look at the statistics in relation to the incomes of doctors. If he were to compare the income of doctors, say, 20 years ago with the income of doctors at present I think he would find that they were much better off then than they are at present. 
ls that so? I return to the point that the medical profession is not achieving anything at present by having reviews: It was only as a result of the courtesy of the Government that the AMA was able to have an interview - I do not know whether I should use that term - with the Minister for Health. The Government said: 'We will give you a little rise to keep you quiet' or something like that. All the medical profession asks for is that it be written into the statute book that there shall be a meeting at least once every 2 years. 
Nobody will die as a result of this happening. 
I thought the honourable senator was going to die. There is no reason why this provision should not be written into the statute book. In this way we would be able to make sure that at least every 2 years we have an interview with the Minister. We could have a Minister who will say: 'I do not think it is worth discussing'. 
^-Perhaps I should remind the honourable senator that there was nearly a change of government recently, lt could happen at any time. So many of you are interjecting at this stage that I cannot understand any of the interjections. 
I understand that the purpose of debate is to listen to other people's ideas. If you do not belong to a major party, those ideas will infiltrate, but if you belong to a major party, of course, you cannot accept them.  Senator Cant  raised a very interesting point, which was taken further by  Senator Byrne.  It was, of course, that the Australian Medical Association does not represent general practitioners. That fact has become very obvious in the last few weeks.  Senator Byrne  also pointed out that the AMA is fragmenting into different societies. I still intend to support the amendment, because I think it is essential that this provision should be written into the legislation, but I also foreshadow another amendment to section 32(1.) of the Act, which I will hand to the Minister in a moment and which does not have to be circularised, as I was told yesterday. The need to move this amendment occurred to me when listening to the debate. 
 When was I in my office to think about it? What a stupid little interjection from a petty little man. 
I have been sitting in this chamber during this debate. In the last 2 days I think I have been out of this chamber for 1 hour, at the most, in the aggregate. Anyhow, that is not the point. Section 32(1.) states: 
The Minister may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, enter into an agreement with the Australian Medical Association. . . . 
I foreshadow that as an amendment I shall move that the words 'Australian Medical Association' be deleted and that the words The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners and the General Practitioners 
Society in Australia be substituted. These are the only 2 bodies that consist of general practitioners, and the treatment of pensioners is strictly in the hands of general practitioners. The fact that specialists, including ophthalmologists, radiologists, orthopaedists and so on. attend meetings of the AMA and decide what general practitioners should do is one of the main bones of contention in the present dispute between general practitioners and the Australian Medical Association.If we include in the Act the bodies that deal with general practitioners - and. therefore, with the only people who deal with pensioners - this will result in a much better attitude being adopted towards the treatment of pensioners. 
The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners has been trying to obtain an improvement in the service which is rendered to pensioners. We had a committee which made many recommendations which were designed to improve the service rendered to pensioners by general practitioners. J think  Senator Poyser  pointed out that it is not just a question of money: it is also a question of improving the service. SoI hope that the Opposition's amendment will be carried, and after that is done I will move a further amendment to make the negotiating body those practitioners who deal with pensioners. This would allow those practitioners to decide what should be done regarding the pensioner medical service, rather than the AMA which has not the authority to do so. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be inserted  (Senator 
McClelland's  amendment) be inserted. 
I propose to raise an objection. In the last 2 days we have been assured repeatedly by the Government that the National Health Bill had to be passed before 1st lune. Every time we pleaded for an adjournment so that discussion could take place on the merits of the Bill; the answer we were given was no. In fact, 2 amendments for that specific purpose were defeated on the ground that the Government wanted the Senate to continue the discussion in order to gel the Bill passed. We did continue the discussion. There is.no need for the Senate to adjourn now. I feel that I should have the support of all Government senators in opposing the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, so. that we can continue to deal with the National Health Bill. 
There is another reason for opposing the motion, and that is that already the Press has reported a suggestion from the Government - J think it came from the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)-  that' it is the Senate that is holding up this vital Bill, which supposedly .will benefit the people of Australia. In, I think, 2 newspapers this morning there was the suggestion that the Government is somewhat annoyed that the Bill has been delayed and that its provisions cannot be introduced by 1st June. It is not our wish to rush the Bill through; it is the Government's wish to do that. If the Government does not intend to go on with it today, let us hear no more about it being the Senate which is delaying the Bill and preventing the people of Australia getting the benefits that might accrue from it. I point out to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  that it is the Government he supports which has said repeatedly that we must sit and that we must get the Bill through. The Government of which he is a member now should support me and say: 'We will carry on today and deal with the Bill'. 
I am not so worried about the first amendment of 'may'. If the Department does not want to make regulations and does not have the interests of the public at heart, it will not make regulations so I am not really interested in that amendment. The second 'may',I think, should be changed to shall' otherwise the Director-General may refuse to entertain an application. I do not think it should be left in his hands to waffle. In the second instance 1 think it is important that the word 'may' should be changed to 'shall'. I shall support that. 
Then I suppose I shall have to support the 'shall' in the first instance. That one did not worry me because I presumed the Department had the interests of the public at heart - it keeps telling us that it has - and therefore it would make the regulations. I am happy to have 'shall' both times. It is essential to have the second 'shall'. If  Senator Greenwood  thinks that the first 'may' should be 'shall'- 
Then I shall support 'shall' in both places. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be inserted  (Senator  McClelland's amendment) be inserted. 
Do I take it from that long dissertation that what the Minister means is that each patient will get as a minimum the hospital bed chargefor that State? 
What is the difference between the cost and the charge? 
I understand. The cost of the bed could be astronomical, but the charge to the patient is a different item. All I am interested in is that the patient will not receive less than the bed charge in the State concerned. 
Question put: 
That the request  (Senator McClelland's)  be agreedto. 
1 support the amendment and 1 am foreshadowing another amendment which has been circulated and the terms of which I should like lo read out to the Committee. 
I only have one more point and this is the question of the aduration of the breast. 1 refer specifically to items 7921, 7925. 7929 and 8037 which refers to face lifting. Could we have an explanation from the Minister as to why national health funds should be spent on these operations? 
Well, I intend lo move that these items be deleted but 1 am waiting to hear from the Minister. She may have very good reasons why we are spending this money. I do not mean anything personal but there may be some reason why these items should be left in. 
I referred to items 7921, 7925, 7929 and 8037 which is the melonoplasty. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Schedules agreed to subject to requests. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill agreed to with amendments and subject to requests. 
Bill reported with amendments and requests; report adopted. 
1 would like the Minister to reply to the suggestion made by  Senator McManus,  which was contained in the letter he read. He suggested that the limit should be extended to include the $48 category, which would do away with the very complicated system which will result from having a 3-step differentiation. I know that the Department of Health has nol read properly Parkinson's law, but other people have. Having 3 categories will mean a tremendous increase in staff in the benefit organisations. Increased staff is a matter of concern to them. It is not a matter of concern to the Department of Health. I would like to hear the Minister express herself on why the Government cannot accept  Senator McManus's  suggestion. The different between $42 and $48 is not great. 
The second matter to which I refer is the $5 maximum fee for certain operations. If the $5 maximum were to include all medical services, not only surgical services,  Senator McClelland  would not have had to move this amendment. At the time when the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  stated that no-one would have to pay more than $5 for any service - today it is limited virtually to operations - no-one thought that a patient, because he had a surgical illness, would nol have to pay more than 55 but if he had a medical illness he would have to pay hundreds of dollars. If a person has a medical illness quite often he is out of work far longer than if he had a surgical illness. 
The Government should stop being political about these matters. Because one party suggests something or because another party thinks something, the Government will not accept such suggestions. If the Prime Minister says something, it has to be done. The Government should have a bit of common sense and realise that the $5 limit is a good idea, but it would be a better idea if it covered medical illnesses as well as surgical illnesses. As an example 1 take a coronary case - a person who has a heart disease. He may be off work for 3 months. He would have a tremendous bill for pathology, medical visits, electrocardiograph tests, etc. He would be off work about 3 times as long as a person who has a gall bladder removed. The latter person would be in hospital only about a fortnight and would be back at work within a month. He would have to pay only S5 for the excess treatment that he receives. It is grossly unfair and unjust. It goes right against the grain. I believe that in medical benefactions the surgical aspect should not be separated from the medical aspect. This is as bad as this Government's attitude to psychiatric disease. I says that this is a special disease and it must not receive the same benefits as any other. 1 hope the Minister can give the Senate some sound reason, firstly, why the suggestion of the friendly societies which  Senator McManus  read out cannot be implemented - I suppose this is a matter of policy - and, secondly, why the maximum fee of $5 cannot include all medical diseases. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [4.46] - I would like to make one or two points. I listened with a great deal of interest to the letter read by  Senator McManus  and to the points which he raised. This is the first time that the Government has subsidised the insuring of low income families as it has done in this plan under which benefits are subsidised in full, or to the extent of twothirds, or to the extent of one-third.  Senator McManus  has suggested that the Government should delete the 3 sections and that all low income families should be subsidised in full. That is how 1 understood what he said. The Government has decided on this provision in the Bill as a matter of policy. 1 am very happy to bring the points which have been raised by  Senator McManus  to the notice of my colleague the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  1 shall advise him of the opinion which has been expressed in this place. Honourable senators will understand that with this Bill I am representing the Minister for Health and 1 must bring these matters to his attention. 
If the Minister docs not know the answer to the question why there is a $5 maximum only for surgery procedure and not a $5 maximum for medical service, will she obtain the information during the suspension of the sitting for dinner and let the Senate have it later on? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [4.55] - 1 have been asked to obtain a detailed comment on this matter. I will obtain it as soon as I can and give it to  Senator Turnbull.  My understanding is that the $5 applies to medical services, but I will have the point cleared up for the honourable senator. 

 Senator MCCLELLAND (New South Wales) 14.56] - I wish to reply to one or two observations made by  Senator Greenwood  in order that he will have a correct understanding of the attitude being adopted by the Labor Party on this aspect of the Bill. First of all, as I indicated earlier, this is not the millennium as far as the philosophy of the Labor movement on health insurance is concerned. Our amendments have been proposed having regard to the framework of the existing Government's presentpolicy of voluntary health insurance. It is the existing Government that has chosen 3 standards in respect of low income earners. 
Our proposal, in short, is that a person in receipt of$42.50 a week or less should have his contributions paid for him as we understand they are paid at the present time, should receive the Commonwealth benefit for any medical service he obtains, as he receives it at the present time, and should receive the fund benefit, as he receives it at the present time. But we say that he should also receive the difference, as set out in the Schedule, between the Commonwealth and fund benefits on the one hand and the fee charged by the medical practitioner on the other. 
It is quite a simple proposition. It is framed in line with the existing Government's present policy. I emphasise that if we were bringing in a Bill of this nature it would not be in conformity with these differentials in respect of low income earners. As I mentioned earlier, under the present proposals we may have the anomalous situation that a man who has a wife and 6 children dependent upon him and earns $58 a week is excluded from these categories, whereas a man who earns $42 a week and has only 1 person dependent upon him is roped in. 
Our proposals are designed to ameliorate the problems of men with low incomes, particularly those with large families. We do not say that this is the millennium by any means, but we suggest that our proposals are a great improvement on the present proposals of the Government. We agree that the existing scheme is complex. In our opinion, it certainly does not carry out the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee, as the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  suggested in his speech on 4th March. But, be that as it may, because we believe that our amendments are an improvement on the Government's proposals I have moved them on behalf of the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the requests  (Senator McClelland's)  be agreed to. 
I am happy either way. I understand - I had to find this out for myself in regard to my own proposed amendment - that the reason why provision is made for Parliament to be notified is that if Parliament were not notified the Department of Health would be notified and the Department of Health would cover the whole thing with its own cloak of secrecy.  Senator Greenwood's  proposal that the names be gazetted is just as good, so I do not mind. When the proposal states that Parliament shall be notified it means that the names shall be tabled, so either way it becomes public. 
I have an amendment to make in regard to this clause, lt has been circulated but I understand that as a result of the last division I must add a few more words. I now move: 
In new clause 46a, after 'amended' insert '(a)', and al the end of the clause add 'and (b) by inserting, after sub-section (3.) the following subsection: " (3a.) When the Committee  recommends  that drugs and medicinal preparations should not be made available as pharmaceutical  benefits  under this Part, a copy of the Report of the Committee, setting out details of the  drugs  and medicinal preparations and the reasons for the recommendations shall be laid before each House of the Parliament within fourteen sitting days of its receipt by the Minister, and, if the Parliament is not then silting, within fourteen days of the  next  -meeting of  the  Parliament.".'.  lt may appear that 1 am using a sledge hammer to crack a nut. But the point is that unless we provide that the drugs and the reasons for their refusal be laid on the table of each House of the Parliament, the Minister may still say that it is not Government policy to announce what drugs have been refused. That is the reason for this rather long amendment when perhaps a more simple one could have sufficed. Let me give the Senate the reasons why it is time the public, and especially the medical profession, knew why drugs have or have not been placed on the list of pharmaceutical benefits and the method of placing these drugs on the list. I said before the suspension of the sitting that honourable senators will find that many of the reasons I am going to announce appear not only ludicrous but even farcical. The final reason 1 am going to give honourable senators is a serious one; it is that the list has never been referred to the antibiotics subcommittee of the National Health and Medical Research Council which the Government set up for this specific purpose. Without referring to the antibiotics sub-committee the Government has introduced new antibiotic restrictions which have proved to be absurd. It did this without consultation with the body it set up to advise it. 
Most of the things 1 am going to say have previously been said in the Senate by me. It is all in Hansard. I have the copies of Hansard here if honourable senators want to look at them. We are told that this 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee is  a  committee of specialists who are leaders in the profession and that therefore what they say obviously must go without argument. Let me refer honourable senators to a drug called Amesec which is  a  triple compound drug. I am sorry if I am taking time to explain this carefully but it is a difficult subject for non-medical people to understand. Amesec is a capsule that contains 3 different drugs. In 1964 the Minister said: 'On the advice of this Committee, this capsule no longer can be prescribed'. 
 Whenever we ask the Minister about these matters he says that the action is taken on the recommendation of the Committee. So, on the recommendation of this specialised Committee, Amesec was taken off the list. But no action was taken against another triple compound drug. It was left on the list. Within a few weeks of the first triple compound drug being taken off the list, a new triple cornpound drug was placed on it. 
Before I refer to the reason that was given for not leaving the first one on the list. I must explain how we found out the reason. This action so incensed members of the medical profession that they attacked every member of this secret and nameless Committee and demanded a reply. The official reply, as it appeared in Hansard, was that no triple compound drug was suitable for every person in the community because each of the ingredients might need altering. It did not matter that this drug suited 98%, 95% or even 90% of people. It had suited them in the past. It had been on the list and it had been widely used. But suddenly it was off the list because, as the official reply said: 'You cannot give triple compound drugs because you must prescribe for the individual. Each of those 3 drugs should be specially prescribed.' 
 Amesec. At the same time the Committee left on the list Tedral, I think it was. Then a few weeks later it added another one, namely, Theosec. Both of those are triple compound drugs. 
So the Committee took one off the list because it was bacl for the public; left a second on; and added a third. 
When the matter was raised in this chamber we again saw the stupidity of the Minister. According lo him. the Department is always right: it can never be wrong. We were told: 'What is wrong with this anyhow? A general practitioner can write out the 3 ingredients and order them as a capsule.' Can honourable senators imagine a general practitioner, instead of writing Amesec. writing cardophyllin, phenobarb and ethidrine? He had to write the 3 names and the dosage and then tell the chemist to make them up in a capsule. This is the action of a Government that says that it believes that the interests of the patients are always at stake. The result is that, instead of the patient buying 100 capsules of Amesec for 50c. because the general practitioner is allowed to prescribe only 12 capsules at a time, in order to obtain 100 capsules the patient has lo pay 50c roughly 8 times. So it costs him $4. That is apart from the irritation of every medical practitioner in Australia, the fact that every chemist has to make up the capsules in his dispensary and the fact that there is increased cost to the Commonwealth in making up each capsule, lt is a ridiculous position if every there was one. 
In order to show further the ridiculousness of the position. I point out that these were triple compound drugs in capsule form, but for years and years - ever since 1 started practising medicine: - we have ordered triple compound medicines and even quadruple compound medicines. In fact, we could put in as many ingredients as we liked; but, of course, we had the right to alter them. Many of them were made up as stock mixtures. But not a word was said about that. So the absurdity of the position was that the Government took one drug off the list, left a second on and then put a third on. The final absurdity was that we had them in mixtures all the time; so it did not matter. However, we were given the reason for that action. Amesec has now been replaced on the pharmaceutical benefits list. Nobody has ever told us why. This is a drug which, it was said, should not be on the list because it is harmful. Yet it is on the list again after 2 or 3 years. Actually, I do not know how long ago it was taken off. The departmental officers could tell the Minister that. That concludes what I want lo say about Amesec. 
Let me come to aspirin. Suddenly we have discovered that aspirin is no longer suitable for the general public of Australia, lt does cause bleeding in the stomach as one of its over-dosage effects. But that happens only when a person takes large numbers of lablets over long periods. So aspirin is no longer on the pharmaceutical benefits list. 
That is right. Yet a person can go out into the street and buy Vincents powders, Bex powders or any other aspirin he wants and there is no problem. The Government has done nothing about that. At the same time as it is said that aspirin is harmful and must not be prescribed, general practitioners are allowed to prescribe it for pensioners. I have pointed this out before. Where does the common sense come into this matter? A general practitioner is not allowed to order aspirin generally, but it is a general benefit for pensioners. Apparently it does not matter about pensioners. Apparently they can be bumped off as quickly as possible; so we can give them aspirin. 
lt is quicker. We also had the problem of phenacetin, which was found to cause kidney disease in cases in which 80 or more tablets were taken per day. The normal order by a doctor on prescription would be 4 times a day. So there is a big difference. But, because phenacetin causes a certain type of kidney disease, according to the Committee it must no longer be prescribed. So it is wiped off overnight, although we have been using it and eating it for years. Certain people take excessive dosages: so because of them phenacetin can no longer be ordered. Therefore, the Government substituted for it a drug called paracetamol. That is its generic name. Its common name is Panadol. It is not as effective as phenacetin. It has been shown that the end degradation product of paracetamol is exactly the same as that of phenacetin. If honourable senators want it, I can give them the reference to this matter and they cao read it for themselves and see that that is a fact. So, there is another absurdity in relation to this Committee. 
I come now to the subject of specified purpose drugs. These are drugs that can be used only for specified purposes set out by the Minister in the holiest of holy bibles issued to all doctors - the pharmaceutical benefits list. It says that certain drugs have to be used for specified purposes. A few of them can be used by authority. A doctor can order these drugs only for the specified purpose set out in the book. If he does not use them for that purpose, the Department can query him and he can be charged for using a drug when he should not have used it. 
There is a very good example of this in this very chamber. One honourable senator, because he had an upper respiratory tract infection, asked me to prescribe for him. I ordered a tetracycline which has come off the specified list. Normally I would have seen him in a couple of days and said to him: 'Are you any better or not?' He would have replied: 'No'. Then I would have changed the drug. 
I point out that some Liberal Ministers have been very pleased with the treatment they have received with the same drug. I am referring to this case to show what happens. We had a break for 10 days; so I did not see this honourable senator until we came back, when he said to me: 'That drug did not do me any so-and-so good. I am just as bad as I was before. In fact 1 am worse. Cannot you do something?' I said to him: All right; I will put you on to Ampicillin'. That was strictly illegal because it was not for the specified purpose set out in the book; but I do not mind the departmental officers hearing about it. So 1 gave this honourable senator that drug, and today he is a new man - unfortunately. He is better. I want honourable senators to understand what is happening at present. I ask honourable senators: if you went to your doctor and he said: "1 can give you a tetracycline or Ampicillin; which do you want?', what do you think you would say? You would, of course, ask for the best drug possible. 
But the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee will not allow Ampicillin to be prescribed except in certain cases. 
Thank you. 1 did not mention any names. As I was saying, here we have an example of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee telling individual doctors what they are allowed to prescribe to their patients. The Committee says that they cannot order Ampicillin unless it is for specific diseases. I point out to honourable senators that the Committee has not even provided a correct list in its book. I shall give honourable senators proof of this fact. The whole thing is nonsensical. This is another facet of the whole nonsensical business. The Committee says that doctors cannot order it. Surely the practitioner who is treating the patient is the one to decide what the patient should have. It should be remembered that time and time again the Department has stated that it is never on the ground of expense that it refuses the use of any drug. This statement has been made in this chamber bv a representative of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and it has been made also in the other place by  th2  Minister for Health. Tetracyclines were on the specified drugs list for years, but medical practitioners disregarded the Department's instructions and ordered the drugs for diseases for which they were not supposed to be ordered. But they were used for the patient's sake and not the Department's sake. The Advisory Committee has at last agreed that Tetracycline should be no longer a specified drug. 
Authority was required for the use of cortisone. One had to write to the Chief Medical Officer of the Commonwealth in the State in which one practised and seek permission to use it for the treatment of certain diseases. It was not even brought down one step and classified as a specified drug. However, it was released overnight for general use. No explanation has been given as to why drugs which the Department now says are suitable for everyone to use were denied to the patients of Australia. This is the action of a Government which keeps on telling us that this Bill is for the benefit of the community. 
I turn to the use of barbiturates, which has again made a laughing stock of the Department. The Department said that i'was going to stamp our drug taking in Australia. Everyone takes sleeping tablets by the hundreds. 
Well, that is a generalisation. Many people, especially the majority of pensioners, take sleeping tablets. Because of the drug problem in Australia the quantity of sleeping tablets prescribed in each prescription has been reduced from 100 tablets, which is roughly 3 months supply if I tablet is taken each night, to 25 tablets. No consideration has been given to the pensioners. I do not know why. Often pensioners take two of these sleeping tablets a night, but let us assume that a pensioner takes I sleeping tablet each night. Instead of having to see his doctor once every 3 months for his tablets he has to go in once every 25 days. The Government, is supposed to bc worrying about the expense of its health scheme. It thinks that restriction of the number of tablets prescribed will stop drug abuse. How stupid can one get? As a result of this restriction the cost to the Department is the cost of 4 visits to the doctor when only sleeping tablets are involved instead of I visit. If a person wants sleeping tablets he has to go to his doctor 4 times and to his chemist 4 times. Pensioners are inconvenienced but they still get their sleeping tablets. 
 I do not know. This restriction is designed to stop drug abuse. At the same time, with great facility, clarity and wisdom, the Department has decided that if a doctor orders 50 milligramme tablets instead of 100 milligramme tablets he can order 100 of them. Take, for example, a drug called Nembutal. It is usually ordered in 100 milligramme capsules. A doctor is only allowed to prescribe 25 capsules. A 50 milligramme capsule has been made and one is allowed to prescribe 100. In other words, one prescribes two at night instead of one. So you have a supply for 50 nights instead of 25. What is the reason for this? On the one hand the Government is stamping out drug abuse and making it harder to get drugs and on the other hand it is allowing patients to take two 50 milligramme capsules each night, which gives you a supply for 50 days instead of 25. No wonder the medical profession queries what is going on in regard to this Advisory Committee. 
Then one comes to the psychotropic drugs. Tranquilisers are being used more and more every day. It is a fact of life that because of present conditions many people are going onto tranquillising, antidepressant, anxiety state drugs, but in its wisdom the Advisory Committee has decided that a doctor cannot order psychotropic drugs without a patient having first gone to the inconvenience of having to go to a public hospital or an approved hospital and being seen by a psychiatrist. The patient is then given an order to take to his own general practitioner, who then orders such drugs. But he can order only a 3-months supply. At the end of that time the patient must go back to the approved hospital or to a psychiatrist and get another order. What is the reason for this? I know it will bc very difficult for the Minister to answer my queries because medical problems come into it. Even the psychiatrists themselves are opposed to this requirement. However, the Department will not budge. Psychiatrists are specialists. I presume they know what to do. Do not say that it is because the Department is trying to stop general practitioners using such a drug because a general practitioner is entitled to order psychotropic drugs for pensioners. This is another example of the fact that general practitioners have 2 classes of patients. According to the Government, they can do as much damage as they like to pensioners, but they must nol treat anyone else with such drugs. Why is this so? I keep asking why it is so. The answer which is always thrown back is that, this is the recommendation of the Advisory Committee. The reason is never given. The only time an answer was given was in regard to the drug Amesec. 
Then there is the question of the drug Intal. to which I referred recently. Intal is a new preparation which helps prevent asthma. The Department has :n its wisdom sent out a 4-page document in relation to it. Intal is not only a specified purpose drug but it is also a special authority drug. One cannot use it unless one gets permission from the Chief Medical Officer of the Commonwealth in the State in which one practises. One has to fill in the document to which I have referred and send it to him. He then decides whether one should have it. It is not the practitioner treating the patient who decides. The practitioner has seen and examined the patient but he does not decide. The decision is made by an officer of the Department. He is probably a drop-out from general practice anyway, although he may not be. This person sits in his office and makes the decision although he has never seen the patient. This is the man who says: 'No, you cannot have it'. 1 can give honourable senators an example of what has happened. A general practitioner sent a boy of 16 years of age to his consultant physician who said: 'This boy needs Intal*. The request was sent to the appropriate officer in the capital city, but permission to use the drug was refused. What is happening in this country is that the doctors are not treating the patients; the Department is treating them, lt is time this practice stopped. Not one honourable senator would stand up and support the Department in this regard because honourable senators know very well that if they went to their own doctor they would demand these things for themselves. Yet honourable senators sit here and do nothing about the matter. The Department is being allowed to adopt a big brother attitude, lt is telling the doctors what to do, although the doctors have to treat and care for the patients. The Department's medical officers in the capital cities have not seen the patients, but they can do what they like. ] do not want to say any more in regard to this stupidity about the use of Intal, other than to say that a doctor is not allowed to order it unless a patient has been on 7.5 milligrammes of Cortisone for some time. This means that the patient is receiving fairly heavy doses of Cortisone, which is not a good thing. So you wait until you have almost bumped him off with Cortisone and then give him Intal to try to revive him. That might be exaggerating a little, but it is not far from the truth. 
We will hear from the Minister. Let us come back to the final thing, which is a far more serious than ludicrous situation. I refer to the present situation regarding the latest anti-biotics and the new restrictions that have just been imposed for no reason whatever. There is a drug called lincocin in respect of which unrealistic restrictions have been imposed, virtually delisting it from the general practitioner's use. The Pharmaceutical Advisory Committee has said, virtually, that a general practitioner may not use this drug unless he has performed a pathology sensitivity test to show that the germ is resistant to atheramycin and, if it is, he can use lin.cocin. The Committee also has imposed crippling restrictions on negram and furadantin, 2 drugs which are used commonly and have been used commonly without these restrictions. These are new restrictions. There were formerly restrictions, but these are new. Those drugs cannot be used until a pathology test has been carried out to determine sensitivity to sulphonamides. If the germs are resistant to sulphonamides the general practitioner may use lincocin. Did the Department stop to think of the cost of this to the patient? The Department is supposed to be thinking of the patient all the time and doing its best for the patient. 
As a result of these restrictions a general practitioner may not order these very important life-saving drugs without first getting a swab, having a test done and making sure of the sensitivity. Every GP in this country laughs al this. When do we have time to carry out these tests? If you are sick do you want us to say: 'Wait for a day or two; we will put you on some minor drug until wc find out the result of your test'. You would want the best treatment. The GP knows what is best, and  that  is where the matter should end. It is known throughout the country, except in the Department of Health, that it is very rare in general practice to do  a  sensitivity test in simple and pathogenic infections. Therefore, if the tests are not carried out the GPs and their patients are denied the use of these very effective agents. 
It  means that  the  germ  is not  responsive  to that  drug. All this is very good in theory, but in a busy general practice the doctor just does not have time and the patient wants to get better. The doctor know what is the best drug and will order the best drug. He will not tell the patient to wait and to come back in two or three days - depending on the service available - so that a sensitivity test can be carried out. While you are getting a sensitivity test you could have cured the patient. We break the rules all the time. Sometimes we give a drug and the patient does not get better. We know within two or three days that there is a resistance to that drug and so we change it. Before prescribing lincocin the doctor must ensure that a specified purpose is written into the book and the germ must be resistant to atheromycin before lincocin can be used. This drug is given by injection and is the most harmless of all the antibiotics. 1 am not setting myself up as an authority on this question; I shall tell the Minister the name of an authority if that is her wish. This is a drug of choice in pneumococcal infection and yet its use is denied. It has always been rapid in its effect and its action has always been gratifying in the treatment of staphylococcal infection. It is more effective than atheromycin and yet we are not allowed to use it. lt has no toxicity. 
We cannot use it. 
 Madam, I addressed an international conference of pharmacists only recently. About 300 or 400 pharmacists were present when 1 said: Put up your hands if any of you have ever dispensed an antibiotic, specified purpose 1, as a private drug'. They just roared with laughter, because no-one would do it. No doctor would do it either. Every doctor breaks the law in regard to this and orders the drug. Do you think your doctor would say that this was not a specified purpose so you can pay $6 for it? Of course he is going to mark it 'SP'. That is the stupidity of the whole thing. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [8.45] - I feel that 1 should reply to a few points and then  Senator Turnbull  may continue with his remarks if he wishes. 1 refer first to a point in respect of which 1 rudely interjected. I thought the matter was important because he honourable senator kept on saying that the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee says that general practitioners cannot use the drug. Surely the situation is that the doctor can prescribe what he wishes, but the PBAC recommends whether it shall attract the benefit. Surely that is the point that the honourable senator was raising. There is nothing to stop the doctor using the drug: it is purely a matter of whether it is to attract the benefit. That is the point that we should be discussing. I feel that the point put by the honourable senator was nol correct. 
The first point I ask honourable senators to note regarding the amendment which is proposed is that the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, on whose recommendations drugs are listed as pharmaceutical benefits, is a most eminent committee indeed. For good and valid reasons which I have pointed out already this afternoon in this place the names of the members of the Committee are not made public. But f would say to honourable senators that the Committee comprises the following persons: An officer of the Department of Health who is a pharmacist; six most eminent medical practitioners appointed by the Minister for Health from a panel of names submitted by the Australian Medical Association; a pharmaceutical chemist appointed by the Minister from a panel of 3 names submitted by the Pharmacy Guild of Australia; and a pharmacologist appointed by the Minister. The composition of this Committee in itself ensures that its recommendations are based on professional judgment of the highest order. In addition to the application of its very wide knowledge of these matters the Committee has available to it the advice of all the specialist medical colleges as well as information from authoritative overseas sources. I assure honourable senators - I am most positive about this - that the recommendations made by this Committee are soundly based on expert judgment applied in all respects in good faith. 
Explain Amesec. 
Having regard to the point I have just made it can be seen that no good purpose whatsoever would be served by setting up what would be a relatively complex and time-consuming administrative procedure - often in the most technical terms - of the reasons underlying this responsible and objective Committee's terms - or the reasons underlying this responsible and objective Committee's recommendations. The sheer volume of drugs and medicinal preparations on which detailed reasons would need to be given would in itself create a task of very great magnitude. I might mention also - I think this is very important - that the disclosure of the reasons underlying the Committee's recommendations would obviously open the way to endless dispute as to the validity of those reasons in an area where not only purely scientific data but also balanced judgment and personal experience are factors of considerable significance. This of course would add substantially to the work load of the Committee and would possibly create difficulties in obtaining suitably qualified people to accept nomination on the Committee. 1 believe it is tremendously important that we should have highly qualified people on this Committee. The amendment, I believe, could have serious implications in terms of public administration in general. 

 Senator Turnbull mentioned Intal. I think 1 would be right in giving them a reply concerning Intal. In the case of this drug, the Minister for Health, being aware of the difficulties that could arise from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee's recommendation, appointed a select committee of eminent specialists in asthma to prepare (a) a booklet on Intal which has been made available to all medical practitioners; (b) an 'application for authority to prescribe' form; and (c) instructions for the guidance of Commonwealth Directors of Health in considering applications. Instructions and procedures laid down by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee and the select committee of specialists for the supply of Intal as a pharmaceutical benefit will be reviewed by the respective committees in the light of experience in the use of this new drug. This seems a very reasonable, sensible and good thing. In some cases - and I think thai  Senator Turnbull  will agree with this - despite extensive investigation in both animals and humans prior to marketing, adverse effects of new drugs have become apparent only after extensive use by patients, and for this reason there is considered to be merit in restricting the availability of certain new drugs as pharmaceutical benefits for a period for use in approved hospitals which have adequate facilities for treatment and experienced stall and equipment to monitor the effect of treatment. This lo me as a layman seems to be a very wise and sensible arrangement. 
Then we come to Bactrim, lt is interestin.: io note thai Bactrim has not been cleared for general marketing in either the Un.ted Stales of America or Canada, and Intal is not as yet marketed in the United Suites of America, although investigational trials have been under way for some time. 
If the proposed amendment is carried a very wide field will be opened. I intend to move into the field, too. The policy of the Government, as far as I understand it, has always been that all benefit schemes should be related to the medical practitioner and that all paramedical fields should not be included. The Wedgwood Committee dealt with this matter. We of that Committee recommended that, as a group, physiotherapists should be included. Honourable senators may or may not recall that in my speech on the debate for the second reading of the Bill I pointed out that 1 thought that physiotherapists should be included. I was assured that the Australian Labor Party would not support my suggestion. Now the ALP has suggested the inclusion of another paramedical group. I will support the amendment. I will deal with that first. 
I think honourable senators should discuss whether the Government intends to recognise all paramedical services. If the Government accepts this group, it is opening a very wide field. I am quite in sympathy with  Senator McClelland's  amendment, because time and time again doctors refer healthy people - people not suffering from disease but who have eye problems - directly to optometrists. I have done it myself often. If I thought a patient did not need the services of an ophthalmologist I directed him straight to an optometrist. I do not see why, in such a case, the optometrist should not get a fee also. We have not considered whether the contribution rate will have to be increased if this amendment is carried. That may also come into the picture. I support the amendment. At the same time, I must support another amendment which I propose to move right now. 
I thought we were dealing with the schedules as a whole. I will foreshadow it as an amendment if the present amendment is carried. I shall move that treatment be given at the request of a medical practitioner by a registered physiotherapist. 
There will be a problem with dentists, too. As I said,  a  very wide field will be opened if optometrists are approved. I shall insist that physiotherapists be approved. They are an essential part of medical treatment. 
They are not as essential as the physiotherapists. These days every operation requires treatment afterwards by a physiotherapist. Doctors refer patients to physiotherapists. I foreshadow that amendment. I have another amendment which I foreshadow. I shall move that in Part  10  Division  13  certain items be deleted. I refer to item  7921,  which is in the First Schedule, at page  31. 1  refer also to items  7925, 7929  and  8037.  I do not see why the Government should support an operation to enlarge the mammary gland. That is all that item  7925  concerns.  1  think it is plain- 
Yes. Item  7921  deals with a mammaplasty, reduction or repositioning of the mammary gland. For those who do not know what the mammary gland is, it is the breast. The Government will contribute  $96  for this plastic opera- tion. Item  7925  concerns a mammaplasty, augmentation, prosthetic (unilateral) - only on one side - and the Commonwealth benefit will be  $81.I  presume that if the operation is done on both sides the Government will pay  $162.  I think we have reached the height of absurdity when, in the National Health Act, we condone the fetish that has grown so much in the United States of America and here. I refer to the worship of the female breast. 
I will not develop it. Honourable senators may not understand what a melonoplasty is. I will explain what item  8037  is. The Government, very cheerfully, will pay out$147 for a face lift. That is what item  8037  deals with. That is what our funds are being used for so that people can have a face lift or so that women may have their breasts made bigger or smaller, whichever they like, at the Government's expense.  1  foreshadow those amendments. I shall move that thoseitems be deleted. I foreshadow another amendment. It is in Part  2  Division  1  item  210. 
SenatorButtfield - Why is the honourable senator foreshadowing this amendment? 
I am asked why I am foreshadowing this amendment. I wantto do it only as an indication to the Government that the Committee will not support a discrimination between general practitioners and specialists. As honourable senators are aware, there are two different types of fees - one for general practitioners and one for specialists. This matter is argued backwards and forwards all the time. Item  210  relates to a confinement under the care of a specialist. I foreshadow this amendment because - although it is too complicated a matter to discuss in this short time - if the Committee carried the amendment that would be an ind cation to the Government that the Committee does not believe in differential rebates for items which are the concern of both general practitioners and specialists. The wives of most honourable senators - not all - probably were attended in their confinements by a general practitioner. For some honourable senators this would have been some time ago. Many honourable senators, without any doubt, had a general practitioner deliver their children. I am quitecertain that if they think about it they were quite pleased withthe job he did. 
Yes.but why is the generalpractitioner denigrated by being put intothe position in which the basic Commonwealth benefit is$7 less? According to the Government, his worth is  $7  less than that of a specialist. 
He is. 
Yes. and we are quite happy that ihe fees for specialists are higher. 
 I give fair warning to the chamber that I am going to move that amendment merely to seek an indication - because there are many of these practitioner-specialist items - of how the Senate feels. 
I move the amendment which has been circulated in my name in the following terms: 
In the First Schedule, after Division 14 insert the following new division: 
Division IS 8290 Treatment given al the request of SI. 10 a medical practitioner by a registered physiotherapist'. 
As a consequential request, I move: 
In  clause 8 paragraph (b), after paragraph (aa) of the definition of 'professional service', insert (ab) a treatment that is rendered by a registered physiotherapist and is expressed to be rendered by  a  registered physiotherapist; or'. 
As a result of the previous amendment the field of paramedical services has been opened up. If anyone deserves to be included in the provisions of the national health scheme it is the physiotherapist.  Senator Byrne,  in his usual style, put up a very good case for the optometrists. He almost convinced me that the testing of eyes is a medical matter. Actually, it is not; it is an optometrical procedure. If the Committee is prepared to accept the fact that the services of optometrists should be included in the provisions of the National Health Act or the McClelland Health Act then there is no reason why the Committee should not be prepared to accept the inclusion of the services of physiotherapists. Most operations which are performed today require the services of a physiotherapist. 
 I shall have to add the extra bit which the Leader of the Opposition added. I do not know where it would come in. 
What about leaving it at the moment? If this amendment is carried it will result in another consequential amendment. 
Thank you. I will accept that proposal. 
As I was saying, the services of physiotherapists are of great value when operations are being performed. 
The services of physiotherapists are essential when chest diseases are involved. They are used in emphysema and asthma cases as well as in bronchiectasis. The services of physiotherapists are essential when disease of the lung is involved. In this case benefit would accrue only if the patient has been referred by a medical practitioner. I wish to point out also that the services provided by a nurse in the surgery of a general practitioner are included. 1 cannot see any reason why the same principle should not apply in relation to the services of physiotherapists. I believe that the services of physiotherapists should be included in the provisions of this scheme. I cannot see the logic of including the services of an optometrist and excluding the services of a physiotherapist. Therefore, I move accordingly. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [1 1.34] - I replied to this proposition in my comments on the previous amendment, but I think 1' should repeat what I said earlier. The Government is considering the question of the payment of benefits in respect of paramedical services. I am sure that the merits of the claims of the physiotherapists will receive close consideration, along with the claims of other professions and groups which provide paramedical services. Therefore, the Government opposes this amendment. In conclusion, I repeat that it is essential that the provision of a benefit for any paramedical service should be deferred until the relative merits of that service have been considered in conjunction with the overall question of benefits for paramedical services in general. I think this is a very important factor. However, it has been forgotten in our discussions this evening. 
I would like to reply to the very sound suggestion made by  Senator Marriott.  It is true that physiotherapy may go on for a considerable length of time, but the longer it goes on the greater is the burden on the patient. From that point of view the Government should accept the amendment. I can see virtue in  Senator Marriott's  idea and I suggest that when  Senator McClelland's  National Health Bill goes to the House of Representatives it might be amended there, because in that place they will have time to put in a limit to the number of visits that will attract a benefit. 
 Yes. 

 Senator Dame IVY WEDGWOOD (Victoria) [11.43]  -  Whilst it is true that the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs did recommend the payment of a benefit for physiotherapy it recommended also a stabilisation of fees and a limitation of the period for which benefits would be payable. I feel that it would be wrong to take this one paramedical service in isolation. Therefore I remind honourable senators of what the Committee said just prior to making the recommendation with regard to physiotherapy. I think this is important. Paragraph ISO states: 
The extension of Commonwealth and fund benefit payment to all types of ancillary services is no doubt an ideal solution to the problems raised by ma'ny  conntributors,  who lend to believe they should have insurance for every possible service, but the Committee believes that it will continue as an ideal rather than a reality because such an extension would obviously increase contribution rales to a level which is unlikely to be acceptable to the insuring community. 
In that, the Committee raised a warning that it would not be possible to include a wide range of paramedical and ancillary services without running the risk of the contribution rising above that which would be acceptable to the general public. Therefore I would nol accept that amendment in isolation. 
Yes. 
I move: 
In the First Schedule, Part 2.- Obstetrics, Division 1. - General,  delete  item 210.  1 move this amendment simply to test whether the Committee agrees with the principle that those items which are regarded as general practitioner items should not attract a higher rate for specialists. I do not want to go into the question more fully than that, because if the Committee agrees with the principle, some 30 or 40 items have to be altered. One item is the obstetrical item - the ordinary confinement item. I should say that throughout Australia more confinements are carried out by general practitioners than by specialists, yet specialists attract an extra fee of $6.60 for carrying out this procedure. 
There is no such thing as a specialist in obstetrics. If honourable senators examine what happened with their families they will find that in most cases general practitioners delivered their children. To save the time of the Committee, all I want to do is to test whether the Committee believes in the principle. If it does, the Government will be able to rectify the position in another place. I do not want to labour the point. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [11.59] - The Government does not support the amendment. 
Thursday, 4 June 1970 
I have no objection to any item being put in for the repair of a face damaged in an accident but a melonoplasty is not a repair to a face damaged in an accident. It is a face lift. It is a plastic operation designed for one purpose only and therefore the Minister is quite wrong. She mentioned that for psychiatric reasons one must have a breast filled- 
The Minister said that the face lifting was done for psychiatric reasons. 
-I am sorry. The Minister's remarks in regard to psychiatric reasons for having a face lift apply also to abortions because there are considerable psychiatric hazards in those cases and 1 do not see any item in here about that. So I do not agree with that at all. Anyway, the Minister's definition of melonoplasty is wrong. It means every facial repair no matter how big. It is not mentioned here. But there are items for facial repair in a section further back whichI just cannot find at the moment. Melonoplasty should not be in at all unless the Minister can give a better reason. Neither should the plastic operations on the breast be in. So I move: 
Pan 10. - Operations. Division  13.-  Plastic and Reconstructive, delete items 7921, 7925, 7929 and 8037. 
1  have  2  points only to make. The first is that for the life of me  1  cannot understand why senators receive the same allowance as members of the House of Representatives.  1  do not refer particularly to Tasmania, because ours is a small State and we are able to travel about it fairly easily, but a senator representing one of the larger States should have a much bigger allowance. It is preposterous that we allow this state of affairs to go on. A senator's allowance is just creeping up now to the equivalent of that of a member representing a metropolitan electorate. Yet it is obvious that a senator has to travel about the whole State. In some of the big States like Western Australia and Queensland - in fact, in all States except Victoria and Tasmania - it is extremely difficult, and an expensive procedure, to travel about the State. I feel that the Government should look at this problem and see that senators - especially those from the bigger States - receive a larger allowance. It is no good saying that there are  10  senators from each State and therefore each senator can do one-tenth of the work. That suggestion is ridiculous. Each senator has to do the same amount of travelling as if he were the only senator representing his State. He may not get so much work but he has to travel just as far. We cannot allocate a separate part of a State to each senator. 
The second matter, which again is preposterous, is that no allowance is provided for the  Clerk  of the Senate or the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives. I raised this question last year and the Minister in charge of the Bill at that time - I forget who it was, but it was probably the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  - said that he would look into it. We have heard nothing about that matter since. We have had before the Senate a defence Bill which provides for allowances for the Service chiefs and we have had Bills providing allowances for permanent heads of departments. It would be interesting to know how much of that money is spent. I believe that the entertainment allowance for a senior permanent head was fixed at S 1,500  a year, yet the persons who should be doing most of the entertaining are the  Clerk  of the Senate and the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives, and they get nothing. 
It is called an electoral allowance for members of Parliament, but I am talking about the equivalent for people in the Public Service. Some public servants receive an allowance because they happen to be heads of departments. We were told that they were to receive this money because they were called upon to entertain. Now we are told that the heads of Service departments are to receive an allowance - why, I do not know. 
 I am not as ubiquitous as the honourable senator and 1 cannot serve under as many heads as he does. This does not alter the fact that the 2 people whom I have mentioned are not receiving an allowance. If it is good enough for other people to receive it, it is certainly good enough for the 2 Clerks to be given an allowance. When we travel abroad and visit other parliaments we are entertained by the Clerks there, often at their own expense, or perhaps they get some member to entertain us. Usually it falls on the  Clerk  of the House to look after us and to see that we are looked after when we visit another country. 1 think it is time that both the  Clerk  of the Senate and the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives were given an allowance of $1,500 so that they can do their share of entertaining. There is just as much justice in their having an allowance as there is in heads of departments and Service chiefs receiving one. T do not want to belabour the point, because we cannot bring the allowances in under this Bill, but for the second time I ask the Minister - 1 suppose I shall have to ask a third time - whether he will look into this and see why nothing is being done for the 2 Clerks. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the contract price for what is termed 'The Captain Cook Crescent Grassing Project'. 
Why was it necessary to employ a consulting engineer for such a project. 
In view of' the number of men employed by the Parks and Gardens Branch, why was an outside contract necessary for this project. 
1 would just like to add a few words. 1 was undecided as to which way to vote but after listening to that most hypocritical speech by  Senator Davidson  I have decided that there is only one way a man can vote. I will not go into the legal details and so on, but when we are informed that 2 members of the Committee who are both absent today are adamant that this regulation should be disallowed then ] will vote with the people who say that. I am sorry that  Senator Davidson  had so much pressure put on him that he has now seen the light. 
I will not deal with the merits or demerits of the motion because 1 think it is accepted by all sides of the chamber. It boils down to a question of the kind of matter which should be referred to the standing committees. We have not had standing committees before to know what matters should be referred to them.  Senator Wright  has suggested that a matter referred to a standing committee should be one on which the committee can come to a quick decision and report that decision to the Senate for discussion. I do not see standing committees in that light. He has raised one aspect but I believe that a proposal of the kind now before us will not take that many weeks to investigate. I think that it should be referred to the standing committee so that when the committee has no other more urgent matter to discuss it can revert to investigation of the subject already on its plate. This procedure will give the committee something to do when no other more urgent matters are before it. 
As I have said, we have not had any experience of standing committees to know the kinds of matters which should be referred to them. If there is no limitation as to time for producing a report, then obviously this is the kind of matter which should be referred to a standing commit tee. Although 1 was not in the chamber at the time, I heard in my room  Senator Byrne's  remarks on  Senator Murphy's  motion. 1 felt that  Senator Byrne  contradicted himself. He said, on the one band, that the Senate was overburdened with committees but, on the other hand, he was in favour of the setting up of another committee. The fact that Senators are overburdened with Senate select committee work is sufficient reason to refer this matter to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare because it has been set up to inquire into matters of this nature. If a Senate select committee is set up to inquire into this matter its findings and recommendations may be referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare anyway. It could well be that the inquiry would be duplicated. Anyhow, we do not know whether the system of standing committees will be successful. This is a very good subject - the inquiry would not be too lengthy - to use as a basis for determining whether they will be successful. Standing committees could consider a matter such as this when they have no urgent matters to consider. For those reasons, I support the proposal. 
We are all indebted to  Senator McManus  for relieving the minds and hearts of honourable senators by indicating that there will not now be a double dissolution. 
I shall not force a double dissolution either. In the short time that I have I want to speak of the Department of Health services. I do not want the Senate to think that I am having a one man hate campaign against this 
Department; 1 have the same hate for any department which is inefficient. When we find gross carelessness being exhibited by the Department of Health to such an extent that we can lay a charge of negligence against the Minister and his Department it is time that we brought the matter to the notice of the public. I do not mind the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  not having technical knowledge, which implies that he is run by his Department; he has to be. Therefore, practically speaking, the blame that I am laying at his door should be laid at the door of the DirectorGeneral of Health,  Sir William  Refshauge. 
Exactly 2 years ago I raised the question of trying to prevent accidents to young children under the age of 5 years. Many children are brought to the public hospitals of Australia suffering from poisoning as a result of their obtaining tablets from containers. When I raised this matter 2 years ago I asked  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, who represents the Minister for Health in this place, a question concerning what were called Palm-N'-Turn containers. There are several other types of safety containers, but that was the one that I was used to. In those 2 years nearly 3,000 babies and children under the age of 5 years have been admitted to our public hospitals in Australia suffering from poisoning as a result of ingesting medical tablets. 
Which years were these? 
The years 1968 and 1969. The figures that I am stating were given to me by the National Health aud Medical Research Council. 
 I am not talking about the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory; I am talking about the public hospitals of Australia. Approximately 3,000 children have been admitted to hospital because of poisoning as a result of the ingestion of medical tablets and capsules. The National Health and Medical Research Council figures show that there were 3,615 cases of poisoning during 1969, of which 40 per cent were due to the ingestion of tablets and capsules. This brings the. number of cases from this cause to 1,500 in that year and, if we double that figure to arrive at the number in 2 years, we find that there would be approximately 3,000 cases. This is plain stupidity on the part of the Department of Health. The Department refused to accept any advice given to it because, as I have said repeatedly in this place, if: you pay a man a large sum of money - $22,000 a year - he is supposed to know the answers and therefore any outsider obviously cannot have any brains or any worthwhile idea. 
Two years ago 1 suggested to the Minister that he should direct that all tablets that are dispensed should be put into these Palm-N'-Turn containers or similar containers. The Minister replied in writing and said that he viewed the matter with concern - so much concern that he did nothing for 2 years and passed the buck to the National Health and Medical Research Council. On every occasion that the matter has been raised he has passed the buck saying that it had nothing to do with him, but he knew full well that all he had to do was pass a regulation under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act staling that all these capsules and tablets had to be in a PalmN'Turn container. I do not want the Minister representing the Minister for Health in this chamber to say that that is not the answer. That is what the Minister for Health said, so in saying that she would be restating exactly the answer that I have been given. Of course it. is not the whole answer, but it is practically 60 per cent to 80 per cent of the answer. These Palm-N'-Turn containers are not 100 per cent safe. Honourable senators will recall that I distributed the containers in this chamber and that at least 8 or 9 senators could not open them. Pressure must be applied to the lid of the container in order to open it, so no child under the age of 5 years would possibly be able to open them. Some brilliant children might be able to do so, but at least the bulk of them would not be able to do so. But 2 years have now passed and I do not know how many deaths have resulted from no action being taken. 
Since I asked the question 2 years ago, every death that has occured from this cause can be laid at the door of the Minister and his Department because these acci dents could have been prevented. There was no need for them to happen, if they had been prepared to accept advice. The Minister said in his letter in May 1969 that he thought it was a good idea but was not a full answer. Therefore he took no action. So we have case after case admitted to our children's hospitals because the Minister would not take action. A further answer was given that it is a matter of education and also the fault of the parents. Of course it is the fault of the parents for not putting their drugs away, but in every household these things happen and when elderly people are careless about their tablets children will get at them. But it does not matter how the children manage to get the tablets; the point is that this was a preventable disease. We could have prevented these accidents. But 3,000 cases later we are doing something about it. 
A circular has now been sent out lo chemists asking that they please put tablets in containers of this type. But the Department had the power to insist on this. Even in the early days when a container might have cost 0.5c or lc more, surely that would not have been too much for the Government to provide. That amount could have been deducted from the sum paid to chemists or the cost could have been shared with the chemists. There is no excuse for this not having been done 2 years ago. The National Health and Medical Research Council, upon whom this matter was thrust, stated straight out that it recognised the need for increased education in the prevention of accidental poisoning and it commended the use of tablet containers which would not readily be opened by young children. But why was the matter referred to this august body? Any housewife or mother could have told us that it was better to have a container difficult to open rather than one from which the top came off easily. Anyone with any commonsense would know that but the Minister had to pass the buck. Now 2 years later a letter has at last been written asking: 'Chemists, would you all please use this?' But again, the letter does not insist on it. That is the final question in regard to this matter. Why does not the Government insist on these containers because today they are even cheaper than ordinary containers? It is not a question of cost at all. 
The Minister is quite wrong in saying that he cannot order this in every State. He can order it under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act and so compel the chemists. He does not have to order the States. He orders the chemists and it does not matter what State they are in. Because the Department is too pigheaded to accept some advice and to be told that something is available and because the advice did not come from the Department nothing is done. I am pleased and interested to see that  Sir William  Refshauge is in Australia long enough to sign the notice which was sent to the chemists. One could well ask where he has been all this time, especially when matters of concern to the Australian public in regard to national health and hospital benefits were the vital issue. Where was the Director-General of Health? But I. am not going into that question now. 1 have two other points in regard to the Health Department which 1 want to raise. I hope the two Liberal Party senators and the two Australian Country Party senators who are sitting on the Government side of the House and the Country Party senator in the Chair will take note of what I am about to say because the Liberal Party is supposed to be the upholder of free enterprise. So 1 ask honourable senators on the Government side of the House to take note of what I am about to say. 1 ask them to take the matter up with their own health committee and see whether something cannot be done. In the city of Canberra we have the Australian Capital Territory Health Services. It is a service which any equivalent city in Australia would be only too proud to have but could not afford to have. The taxpayers of Australia pay for the service in Canberra. In Canberra a man is practising private pathology. The hospital in Canberra does public pathology. This happens in quite a number of big cities throughout Australia where the Commonwealth Department of Health maintains public pathology services - I do not mean hospital pathology services - but very rarely in a capital city. Canberra is the equivalent in size of Hobart or a little better than Launceston at the moment although it is outstripping Launceston. In Canberra this man is doing private pathology. There is hospital patho logy. There is public pathology. Yet in Canberra the Department immediately sets up public clinics in different suburbs. 
Nowhere else could anyone afford this service. This may be a good thing if it is done throughout Australia. If the socialist government which is in power at the present moment wants to continue its socialism it should do this thing. The Government is providing a socialist service. I am proud of the Government for doing that. But 1 want it to provide that service throughout Australia. Why pick Canberra? If the Government does not believe in providing free medical services everywhere it should stop it in Canberra as well. The Government keeps on talking about private enterprise yet here is a man who has set up a clinic in a suburb and the Commonwealth Government immediately sets up a public one opposite him. The Government hits informed him that it proposes to set up further public pathology clinics for the use of the people. If this is to be done in Canberra, I say to the Government: Please do it in my city of Launceston and in every other city of Australia. I am quite happy about that because it is a very good socialistic move. But the Government should not just pick on Canberra and do it here when it is not being done anywhere else. 
This man sets up his private enterprise and the Government is going to surround him with public clinics. How do honourable senators opposite expect him to carry out a practice? The Department has said that there will be a public clinic in every suburb. This seems to be the aim. This man opened a branch surgery in the Woden Valley in order to give private practice a better service and the Government promptly put in a free service in opposition to him. He was informed that the Department envisaged further free branches in new centres, especially in the surburb he is in. I sincerely say that the Liberal Party supporters cannot have it both ways. If they want socialism they should do this in every city in Australia. If they do not believe in socialism then they should see that this is stopped. I will not raise this subject any more. I have onlyone more point and that is on the question of smoking. 
That is right. In Canberra one can have any district nurse attend one. 1 do not want to be bitter about this but in Canberra the DirectorGeneral of Health or any other departmental head on $22,000 a year can have free district nursing. It is very difficult to find free district nursing applicable to anyone who can easily afford it in any other city. Canberra has its pre-school centres and so on. There is no doubt that to make up for the high cost of living Canberra has to have some advantage. The people receive it in health services and some of the education services. I do nol want to start on the subject of education but if honourable senators look at the schools and compare them with schools in their own States they would be horrified with the ones in  their  own towns compared with the ones here. But the interjection drew me aside. I come back to smoking. 
I have mentioned smoking again and again and again ad nauseam. All the time there  has  been the same apathy, the same reluctance by the Department of Health to do anything because the greatest contributors to the Liberal Party funds are the  tobacco  companies. The greatest advertisers on television and in the Press are the tobacco companies. So again nothing is  clone  about a substance which everyone will agree - except the tobacco companies - has been proved time and time again to  be  harmful. All the companies have been asked  to  do is to put the tar content of cigarettes on the packets, ft is a simple thing like that. The Government worries about aspirin which does not affect many people. It worries about whether aspirin is going to give people kidney disease and takes it off the pharmaceutical benefits list. For  some  inexplicable reason the Government has put it back on the pharmaceutical benefits list. No-one can understand the workings of the Department of Health. But it took aspirin off the list because it is a dangerous drug which causes gastric bleeding. What about tobacco? Not a thing is done about that. Yet it is a greater cause  of  morbidity in  the  community than any aspirin, phenacetin or any other drug that the Department of Health starts to worry about., takes off the list and puts on again to try to pacify someone or other. Here we have a means of telling people what to do about smoking, but the Government does nothing. When I first raised this question I was told: 'You must not tell people not to smoke. You must educate them.' What has the Government done to educate people? I ask the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who represents the Minister for Health to tell us. Unfortunately the honourable senator has spoken in the Budget debate. 
The honourable senator might be able to obtain a statement from the Minister of what he has done. Of course he will pass the buck to the States. But remember the excise comes to the Commonwealth. It can increase the price of cigarettes. If people want to kill themselves let them pay for the hospitalisation they will cause in later life. The Commonwealth controls the television stations and it is no good passing the buck to the States and saying that the Commonwealth cannot do anything. It can. A simple amendment to the Post and Telegraph Act could enable the Commonwealth to gel control of advertising on television stations. The Government will not take any action because the Press, in effect, owns the television stations and it is not willing to hurt the Press. Medical committees have been set up to request the Government to make it mandatory for cigarette manufacturers to state on cigarette packets that smoking is dangerous. The Government has provided for words such as 'This is harmful to the consumer' to be placed on aspirin packets, yet this Government is not prepared to take the same action in regard to cigarette packets. We have asked the Government to provide that cigarette packets should show the tar content of the cigarettes but again the Government refuses to do so. 
I have received a letter from the Minister for Health which says that he has been discussing these matters time and again and that a sub-committee has been set up by the National Health and Medical Research Council. The Minister has simply passed the buck. He also said that the matter of labels on cigarette packets is the responsibility of individual State governments.  I  agree with him, but the Commonwealth can act through the Department of Customs and Excise. The Government could perhaps reduce the excise on cigarettes conditionally upon the displaying of the required statements on cigarette packets. There are only 2 brands of cigarettes that are safe to smoke, Hallmark and Ransom. If a person wants to smoke he can smoke about 5 times as many cigarettes of those brands as he can of other brands such as Peter Stuyvesant. 
The tobacco companies are so concerned about this matter that they set up a committee of their own to show that smoking is not harmful. If ever there was a biased committee this is it. This committee has been set up and paid for by the tobacco companies to conduct research over a 5-year period to show that tobacco is not harmful. If 1 were a business man I do not think I would set up an organisation which I knew would return me an adverse finding. However, the tobacco companies do not have to worry because the Department of Health is on their side. Why has the Government not taken tiny action? Why does it refuse to lake action? Honourable senators sit around here and say, Yes. smoking is bad for the kids'. We worry about drug abuse. Very few people take drugs compared with the number who smoke and therefore the morbidity as a result of smoking is far greater than it is from drug abuse. In any case, what is being done abour drugs? The maximum penalty for drug abuse should be the minimum penally. The Commonwealth should give a lead on this. Every person who is a pusher of drugs should after conviction be imprisoned straight away. 
That might do a bit of good. Would the honourable senator rather use the triangles or would he rather thai his children took drugs? 
I think I know the honourable senator well enough to know that his judgment is similar to mine and that he would prefer to have the triangles. There should be a vote of no confidence in the Minister for Health over his handling of the affairs of his Department, lt is outrageous that for 2 years the Minister did nothing about the problem of children being poisoned with drugs and medicines to which they should not have had access, lt was only on 5th August 1970 that the Minister sent a memorandum to pharmacists about this matter. When we find out the number of deaths that have occurred in this way in the last 2 years we can be sure that every one of those deaths can be blamed on the Minister and his Department because they could have prevented those deaths if they had taken the appropriate action. I do not want to start another attack on the Department of Health in connection with the prevention of disease but the fact is that the Department does very little about that problem. Perhaps I could leave that until a later occasion when I continue  my  tirade against the Department of Health. 1 ask the Minister to find out for us  what  has happened in the matter of smoking  and  the labelling  of  cigarette packets and also whether the Government intends  to provide  pathology clinics throughout  Australia.  We would all be pleased to  receive that  information. 

 Senator LAUCKE (South Australia) 19.44]  -  I wish at once to congratulate warmly and to thank  Senator Douglas  Scott  for  his magnificent speech this evening. As  a  maiden speech, in this chamber  or  in  any  other place - and I  have  heard or read many of them  -  I regard his as one of absolute importance, insofar  as it  was given with a depth of consideration for fundamental matters of concern to our community. I feel that we are indebted to him for his contribution to this debate and the indication that he gave of his future contributions in debates in this Senate. I have no doubt thai ahead  of him  lies  a  real area of great service  10  his Slate  and lo  the nation in  i his  representation  here. 
I must say  that  the Budget debate so  far  has been unnecessarily and undesirably political. The contributions by the Opposition have been marked by the attitude displayed by the Leader of the Opposition in this place,  Senator Murphy.  This attitude  is  not a constructively critical one but  is  purely condemnatory, lt was typified in the opening words  of  the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  when he said: 
The Senate condemns this deceptive and negative Budget.' In what way is this Budget deceptive? I have too high a respect for the intelligence of John Citizen, as has the Government, to suggest that open detailed statements of receipts and expenditures, as is this Budget, would pull the wool over the eyes of anyone. It would be arch foolishness, in my opinion, and also a matter of great insincerity to even attempt to do so. Certainly criticisms do arise as to the avenues of Government income and its wide disbursements. This is to be expected and is to be welcomed provided, of course, that the criticisms are realistic and constructive.  Senator Murphy  said that this Budget is negative. I ask: In what way or to what degree is the Budget negative? The expenditures indicated in the Budget are in complete accord with past budgets of successive Liberal-Country Party governments. Have the results of those past budgets proved them to be negative budgets? The answer is to the very contrary. 
I think it is a salutory exercise and a very necessary one to reflect for a moment on the magnitude of this Budget and to trace briefly the growth of budgetary capacity in Australia over the last 20 years. This exercise reveals that remarkable advances have been made in our economy. This year estimated revenue is at an alltime high of $7, 992m. The proposed expenditure is $7, 883m. Those figures constitute an increase in revenue of S840m or an increase of 11.9 per cent over last year. On the side of expenditure the increase is 11.2 per cent. It can be seen from those percentages that, adopting a responsible attitude towards income and outlay, the Covernment has ensured that there will be more income than disbursements in order to maintain the financial stability in the direction of this nation's financial affairs. The increases in the past year indicate the rapid growth of our economy within a very short period of time. 
When we look back at the picture over the last 20 years, we find that, in the field of budgetary compatibility, on a comparative population basis Australia has a unique record among all the developing nations of the world. It is a proud story and one which should not be denigrated by means of politically inspired criticisms that are not constructive. If we look back at the 
Budget of 1949-50 - that is 20 years ago - we see that the national Budget amounted to 544m or, in decimal currency terms, $ 1,088m. That was provided by a population of about 8 million. After a decade - that brings us to the 1959-60 Budget - with an increase of about 2 million in the population, which took it to more than 10 million, the amount that the economy could provide for budgetary purposes was $2,783m. That represented an increase of 260 per cent or just over  2i  times. Today a population of about 12i million is sustaining a Budget based on revenue receipts of just under $8,000m, representing a threefold increase over the amount made available 10 years ago. 
The ability of the nation to make the progress it has made, as indicated by its continually strengthening budgetary capacity, is due to many factors, not least among which has been the climate provided by successive Liberal-Country Party governments through maximum encouragement of the free enterprise system with reward for initiative. It is so true that the prosperity of the individual collectively becomes the prosperity of the nation. The encouragement to have maximum effort by the individual for his own purposes is the ultimate assurance of a prosperous nation. Herein our policies differ so greatly from those of the people who oppose us politically. 'Profit' is not a nasty 6-letter word; it is the most basic force for progress for human beings that has ever been devised. Its benefits flow from the initial recipient through the whole gamut of activity within the society. 
We can look back with pride on those things that have been achieved in the economic field in Australia in the last 20 years. We see the improvement in services to the people, be they in education, hospitalisation or services generally to improve the way of life and the living standards of the people. I believe that they all come back to the contribution made by governments prepared to assist in the encouragement of individual effort, with the backbone of preparedness on the part of the Australian people to work hard and to achieve for themselves those things that are for them possible of achievement in a political climate properly provided. So, as we view this Budget in the overall sense this evening. I say that we have achieved a situation which on world comparisons is second to that of no other country. It rather hurts me to hear condemnation of the situation that exists here. We have living standards of which we should be completely proud and which we should seek to improve. We should not, through political bias in our attitude, destroy the bases from which we can go on to greater things and make this country of ours the greatest country in the world. 
Let us look at the state of the economy in Australia at the present lime. It is marked by a very high rate of growth. In the last year, at constant prices, the gross national product increased by 5.5 per cent, despite the trials and setbacks of rural industry. I fully appreciate that it is incongruous and anomalous that, in an era of buoyant prosperity generally, the vitally important rural sector is in a generally depressed condition. But this situation is not peculiar to Australia. 1 am very pleased to see the consideration being given by the Government to, and realisation by the Government of, the plight of rural industry at the present time. We note that this year $2 1 5m is to be devoted to the immediate problems of rural industry to assist it in this difficult period which, as I have said, is common to all rural economies throughout the world. This assistance is S77m in excess of that which the nation provided last year, ft will assist the vitally important rural sector of our economy in these troublous times. 
I have no doubt that, primary industry, which now provides no less than 58 per cent of our overseas earnings, is recognised as being of such importance that it must not be permitted to reach such a situation that the whole ecnomy and all the people of Australia will suffer by virtue of the difficulties besetting the rural industries. Last year the number of wage and salary earners in Australia increased by 4 per cent. We have a full employment situation. Consumer spending has increased by 9.6 per cent. This buoyancy is due to the attitudes of the people of Australia generally, within the framework provided by sound, effective, efficient and understanding government. 
The Budget provides for a large increase in essential expenditures, especially pay ments to the States. This year, of the total Budget expenditure of nearly 38,000m, $2,708m is devoted to reimbursements, payments or assistance to the  States.  That represents an increase of 29 lm in the past year. This, within the context of the financial ability of the nation to ensure an equitable and necessary distribution of the available finance, indicates the Government's deep concern and respect for State requirements or needs and that the Government is meeting them at the maximum level having regard to the nation's ability to pay. Social welfare receives the second largest allocation under this Budget. This year no less than SI, 820m is allocated for social services, health services, repatriation benefits and housing. This represents an increase for these very human requirements of Si 57m. The attitude of this Government towards humane legislation is highly commendable. It has made an honest attempt to render maximum assistance in the areas of greatest need. I believe that when the impact is felt individually and the expressed desires and intentions receive real monetary consideration, the people of this country will appreciate that it has been the deep desire of the Government, within the very difficult situation of the allocation of moneys available for the many necessary purposes, to ensure that the basic needs are met. 1 turn now to the introduction in this Budget of excise duty on wines. I am concerned at the introduction of this tax. Its appearance is most untimely for an industry which has only in recent years enjoyed a buoyant situation. It could well mark the passing of the industry into an era of difficulty comparable  with  that experienced 5 or 6 years ago by the viticultural interests in placing the vintage. One would need a very short memory not to recall that in 1964-65, with a vintage of much smaller dimensions than that of the past year, great difficulty was experienced. A vintage of about 295,000 tons was gathered last year. In the current year it is expected to be about 330,000 tons. With such an increase in grape production a continuing distribution of the product is essential both on local and overseas markets. Otherwise a situation similar to that of about 6 years ago could be repeated. 
I recall vividly that in 1964-65 in South Australia, where 68 per cent of Australia's wine grapes are grown, because of huge stocks of wine held in the wineries, despite their best endeavours to take in the vintage it was found to be impossible. At that time co-operatives were set up to process grape juice into spirit. Government assistance was given to obtain locations for the transformation of the juice to spirit. Finally payments were made to growers on the returns of processed spirits or brandy. Since that time there has been a great increase in the demand for table wines in Australia. However, exports of wine have not increased appreciably over the period and the local market has formed the basis for the seemingly prosperous and buoyant state of the industry. 
 We have now been discussing this matter for H hours. I do not know whether honourable senators are frightened that the motion will be carried and, for that reason, keep on talking. I do not know whom honourable senators think they will convince. 1 know how I intend to vote and as it is a matter for a free vote I believe that everyone in this chamber knows already how he intends to vote. What is the point of continuing to argue about a matter when honourable senators already know how they intend to vote? 
1 intend to vote No' on notice of motion No. 8, 'Yes' on notice of motion No. 9 and 'No' on notice of motion No. 10. That is all that the Senate needs to know. It is my privilege to vote as I choose, and it is the Minister's privilege to vote as he chooses. There is supposed to be a free vote, so everyone in this chamber knows already how he will vote. It is irrational to try to convince someone who will not be convinced, and it seems to me to be a complete waste of time. I agree with what  Senator Byrne  said in relation to  Senator Bull's  amendment, but on the other hand if the matter goes to the Standing Orders Committee we will have an absolute repetition of this evening when it comes back to the Senate. 
That is right. So why not let us just sit down and vote on it? 
No, 1 do not believe in the gag. 
1 should like to direct a question on Aboriginal housing to the Minister representing the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs or the Minister for Housing. What has been the total expenditure at Wave Hill Commons and how many houses have been built there? What is the total anticipated expenditure in that area? Is there any truth in the suggestion that the Gurindji people have stated that they will never live on the Commons? If this is untrue, how many Gurindji have to date applied for a house at Wave Hill? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that, during 1969, at least 1,500 children under the age of five were taken to hospital with poisoning as the result of the ingestion of medical tablets and capsules, why are the Minister and the Department of Health so dilatory in taking any action which would have helped prevent these accidents, as this problem as first brought to their notice in September 1968. 
How many deaths have occurred since 1968 as the result of this laissez-faire attitude of the Minister and his Department. 
I completely reject the claim that my Department and I have been dilatory in this matter which, as the honourable senator is well aware, has been the subject of serious and responsible consideration by Health authorities in Australia and overseas. 
On 5th August last, my Department wrote in the following terms to retail pharmacists throughout Australia. 
The latest available statistics from the National Poisons Service are a clear indication that accidental poisoning of young children continues to be avery real problem in Australia. 
It is realised of course that the main remedy to this problem is in the hands of parents and there can be no adequate replacement of strict parental care in ensuring that dangerous substances are kept in secure places away from children. However, I am sure everyone would agree that any supplemental measures which might prevent accidental poisoning should be given our closest attention. 
One such measure was the subject of a recent recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council and concerns safety closures for dispensed medicines. Council made the following statement: "Council continues to be concerned at the incidence of poisoning in young children. During 1969, 3,615 cases of poisoning in children under the age of 5 years were reported to the National Poisons Service, 40 per cent of which were due to tablets and capsules. Council recognises the need for increased education in the prevention of acci dental poisoning, stressing in particular the need to keep all poisonous substances, whether drugs or preparations for household use, in places inaccessible to children. Council commends the use of tablet containers that cannot readily be opened by young children." 
You are doubtless aware that there are containers of the types referred to by Council available in Australia for packing dispensed medicines. These are competitively priced in relation to the more conventional containers and therefore, insofar as pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions are concerned, fall within the allowance provided by the Commonwealth for reimbursement of container costs. 
I believe that the problem of child poisonings should be of very real concern to us all and in bringing the Council statement to your notice I would urge you to give serious consideration to this problem and to the feasibility of implementing the Council recommendation concerning the use of safety closures for dispensed medicines.' 
This letter produced, amongst other things, a number of replies expressing doubts about the particular container in which the honourable senator has shown most interest in the past. I understand that at least one of these correspondents forwarded a copy of his letter stating his doubts about the efficacy of the containers, to the honourable senator. 
None. 
 I address a question lo the Minister for Civil Aviation. Did the Department of Civil Aviation allow Jetair Australia Ltd to use DC3s and exgovernment VIP aircraft, contrary to the Department's own regulations? If so, why did it allow the use of these aircraft? 
In my 9 years as a senator I have only once stood up and spoken to a condolence motion but I feel that I must speak to this one because I always admired the late  Senator Ormonde.  He was one of the most helpful senators when I first entered the Senate. He was always friendly and cheerful and he always had a joke  10  tell. We will all miss him. One of his traits which has not been mentioned was his sense of humanity. In my 9 years as a member of this chamber I never heard him make a vindictive remark about any member of Parliament. 
I would like to ask some questions about the Jetair air  craft. I was out of the chamber for a short while and 1 may be repeating a question that has been asked already. What was the price, date and purpose of the purchase of 6 DC3 aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd? At the time of the purchase did the Royal Australian Air Force have any similar aircraft for disposal and, if so, why were these not used for the purpose to be outlined in the Minister's answer to my first question? 1 would suggest, if I may, that the Minister make a statement. Some very serious aspersions seem to be cast oh people concerning this matter and 1 think it would clear the air if the Minister made a statement tomorrow. 
Perhaps the honourable senator was not here at the beginning of question time and 1 do nol blame bini for that. As I pointed out, the Minister for Foreign Affairs did in fact make a statement on 14th February. The honourable senator should have a copy of it. I will be happy to supply him with a copy of it. 1 do not want to read it again at question time, although I would be quite happy to do so. I think everybody should have the burden of it. The burden of it really is that a decision was taken to acquire 1 1 aircraft for the purpose of giving aid to certain countries by supplying them with the aircraft.- Perhaps 1 could read a little of the text which 1 think is germane to the honourable senator's point. The statement reads in part: 
The availability of the Jetair fleet was most opportune, particularly as il consisted of a mixlure of passenger and freight aircraft in very good condition with civilian certificates of airworthiness which is a prerequisite for Nepal and Laos, and in configurations required by the receiving countries. 
The Khmer Republic- 
That is Cambodia:   . . requirement is for freighter aircraft for use by the Khmer Air Force as general freight and personnel carriers. The 5 ex-RAAF freighters and 1 ex-Jetair freighter consequently will be supplied to fulfil this need. 
I suggest that if there is any doubt honourable senators should read this statement and then ask questions tomorrow. 
In relation to the questions asked by Senior Turnbull, I have been supplied with answers by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Government is in the process of purchasing 6 DC3 aircraft from Jetair. The actual contract should be completed in the very near future when the precise purchase price will be made public. My Department has the responsibility of completing that transaction and that information will be made available. The purpose of the purchase is to supply 2 passenger planes for civilian use to Nepal, 2 passenger and 1 freighter aircraft for civilian use to Laos and 1 freighter to the Khmer Republic. The honourable senator's question as to whether the RAAF had any similar aircraft for disposal at the time of purchase can be best answered by stating that under its foreign aid programmes the Department of Foreign Affairs has a requirement for 11 DC3 aircraft, 5 of which are coming from ex-RAAF sources and will be supplied to the Khmer Republic and the remaining 6 will be obtained from Jetair. The decision to purchase from Jetair was made because its planes have both the configurations and civilian certificates of airworthiness which are required for Nepal and Laos. The RAAF aircraft do not possess these. 1 hope this information will help to give a background to the situation, ff it does not, the matter can be raised again tomorrow. I will certainly try to find the information that  Senator Keeffe  asked for earlier. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether, when finding out the prices paid for the DC3 aircraft purchased from Jetair Australia Ltd. he will also find out the dates on which the Government received requests for' DC3 aircraft from the governments mentioned by him. That will complete the information we want. 
The honourable senator's question about prices concerns a transaction that is proceeding at present. When the transaction has been completed, the information will be made available. The honourable senator's second question involves the Department of Foreign Affairs. He is asking me to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to indicate when the various countries requested assistance in terms of that type of aircraft. 1 will put the question to my colleague in the normal way 
 I ask (he Minister fbr Air a question which follows on the question which was just asked by  Senator Georges,  I understood the Minister to say in reply that the Royal Australian Air Force DC3 aircraft could not be given to foreign governments because the aircraft would not fly and could not be brought under the control of the Department of Supply. I ask: How much would it cost to make these RAAF DC3 aircraft serviceable? If it is necessary for work to be done through the Department of Supply, could not officers of that Department be driven to the RAAF aerodrome to inspect the aircraft to see whether they were suitable for donation to foreign governments? I think that the Minister, in his answers to these questions* is building up another VIP incident. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the gift of aircraft to various nations. Did those nations make special requests for aircraft? If so, what are the dates of those requests and which department had the necessary expertise to evaluate the conditions of the aircraft? If not, who suggested that the gifts should be aircraft? 
I want to ask the Minister for Supply a question as a result of one of his answers in which he implied that an officer must have inspected the aircraft offered by Jetair and found that they were suitable. I want to know from which department this officer came. Did he inspect the Royal Australian Air Force aircraft? Did he inspect the TAA and Ansett Airlines DC3s and did he inspect the spare DC3 owned by the Department of the Interior which is still sitting on the tarmac? 
The Department of Foreign Affairs chose to set about the purchase of these aircraft. I would assume, and I am sure everybody is entitled to assume, that the officers involved would be senior officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I am quite satisified that they would make a judgement and that it would be well founded. 1 almost get the impression that  Senator Turnbull  is suggesting that they did not know then* business. I am quite certain that the Jetair aircraft were of the type they were looking for. 
But did they look at the others? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would not know what they looked at at all. I do not know and I do not propose to find out. The fact of the matter is that they made a judgment  and  a recommendation to their Department and they are satisfied that it was and is a good purchase. I think that is where it finishes. 
I leave that subject. I am not quite sure whether my question should be directed to the Minister for 
Air or the Minister for Supply. What is the total of Australia's payments to date for the Fill and the very necessary spare parts? Are we still paying the United States of America at the rate of $7m to S9m each month? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In today's Press the Minister for Health is reported as stating that the banning of cigarette advertising on television has had no effect in diminishing the smoking habit in the United States of America or the United Kingdom. How was he able to assess this, in view of the fact that the cessation of cigarette advertising on television in the United States occurred only on 1st January 1971? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the Government has announced that it proposes to save $75m in a Budget of. over $7, 500m and as these astronomical, figures convey nothing to the housewife, would it be fair to say that the Government's austerity Budget consists of saving one cent in the dollar? Does the Minister honestly believe that any housewife would regard such a saving as one of austerity? 
I am amazed at the simplicity of the arithmetical equation which the honourable senator put to us. 1 am quite certain that if such a calculation were put to the housewife in this fashion it would not have any significance. But it does not mean what the honourable senator suggests. What it means is that there is a significant curtailment of Government expenditure of approximately $75m. What flows from it is the restraint which it will encourage, the example which it will set in the community at large in a free enterprise economy, and the benefit it will bring to the housewife and, in fact, to everybody who is confronted with the problem of inflation. 
1 am not quite sure why I am entering this debate, except that I have a feeling that I would like to be able to say in a year or two: 'I told you so'. It seems to me that this Bill stinks of Parkinson's law. lt is very difficult to attack a Bill like this because everyone believes in the motives behind it. However, I do not think we have studied this Bill hard enough and have discovered all its details. So it will be passed, as we pass these things in this chamber, because it is a good thing to have, and no-one will worry very much about it. But it is obvious to mc that Parkinson's law is being allowed to operate in the Department of Immigration. Do not tell me that it has not already been decided that there will be a First Assistant Director-General (Education), that he will have a First Assistant Secretary, that there will be five or six other positions in charge of different little sectors to cover various countries, and so it will go on. 
This is already the position in London, of course, lt may not be amiss if I tell of what happened when I was in London recently. I rang up the Director-General in London, or whatever his title is, and asked him for some information. He said: 'Oh, no. That is not my department. Ring up the First Assistant So-and-so.' So I rang up the First Assistant So-and-so. He said: 'Oh, no. That is not my department. Ring up the First Assistant Another So-and-so.' So I rang up the First Assistant Another Soandso - this is my fourth call - and I was told: 'No,  Mr Jones  deals with that.' So I rang up  Mr Jones.  I said: 'Are you  Mr Jones?'  He said: 'Yes.' I said: 'Are you a First Assistant?' He said: 'No.' So I said: Why am I wasting my bloody time with you?' Obviously he could not be anyone of importance if he did nol have the title of a First Assistant. 1 had to contact 4 people in Australia House just to make one simple query. 
That leads me on to another question which I do not suppose I will be permitted to expand upon. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  wishes to launch an economy campaign he could cut down the staff of the Public Service by half and save $2m straight away. He could cut by half the staff employed by the Department of Immigration in London as well. I have the feeling that under the provisions of this 
Bill we will fmd a lovely little sub-section of the Department growing up. We have been told already that it is growing financially and that it will cost $4m a year to run. That is nonsense, lt will cost $6m to S8m each year, as we know from the manner in which the departments are run. 
Another little clause in the Bill provides that the Minister for Immigration may arrange for the conduct of research projects designed to improve the content of courses. Of course, we have so many Ph.Ds floating around without jobs now that this will be a lovely source of employment for some of them. One will be employed and another will be employed to find out how teachers should undergo a course of instruction to teach. One would think they would know by now how to teach. So I have the feeling that there will be a tremendous increase in the sub-section of the Department of Immigration involved wilh education of migrants. That makes me very suspicious of the Bill. The COS involved also makes me very suspicious of the Bill, as well as the fact that it is intended to have training courses for teachers. Apparently teachers need to be taught how to teach migrants. That may be fair enough. I suppose teaching an English child to speak the English language is different from teaching a German child to speak English. But it seems to me that there is nothing specific about this in the Bill. 
What will this money be spent on? Who does the Government really envisage it is for? Obviously it has somebody in mind. When these things are provided for in a Bill one finds that the job has already been filled, that the Department is ready to spring up and so on. The Government has some idea where it will spend this money and it already has plans for it. So I view the whole thing with suspicion, even though 1 think it is a good idea. However, it will be a terribly expensive method of teaching migrants. I go so far as to say that nearly all migrants should not be allowed into Australia until they can speak a reasonable amount of English. I think the trouble with migrants in Australia is that too many of them do not understand English. We should insist that they learn English before they come here. Knowing how the Department of Immigration works, gaining approval to be a migrant to Australia is not a rapid process. Surely it should be made an order that people who are intending to come to Australia should learn English in the 6, 12, 18 or 24 months for which they are waiting. I do not think any adult should be allowed into Australia unless he has enough English to understand what is happening around him. This is not so important with children because they pick up languages much more quickly. Even today in the national ghettos, if you want to call them that, or communities a great number of old people still cannot understand a word of English. I do not think this should be allowed for a moment. However, that is only my view. 
Also under the Bill it is intended to have courses designed to impart an understanding of the rights and duties of an Australian citizen and of the way of living of the Australian people. I do not think anyone could tell me how to explain to a migrant what happened in the other House this afternoon and how that is part of the course of living of Australian people. I do not think anyone understands what happened there today. It seems to me that we are about to build up another subdepartment, in which case there must certainly be a First Assistant Director-General (Art of Living), Department of Immigration. Then he will have another little office and will start his little empire going. So I view this Bill with grave suspicion. I think it is a pure example of Parkinson's law in operation. I believe we should stop taking these migrants unless they can speak English. 
In Athens the Department of Immigration had a very good system. I do not know whether it is still in operation. It is 5 years since I was there, on a private trip. When I was there I visited the immigration centre. Intending immigrants live in the centre and learn English and Australian cooking, whatever that may be. An international cook book that I read contained Australian recipes for such dishes as kangaroo patties and kangaroo tail soup. If there is such a thing as Australian cooking, it is taught to intending immigrants at the immigration centre in Athens. The centre is a very good one. It teaches immigrants what their future will be like when they get to Australia. I recommend such centres. I would not care how much was spent on them because I think they are really worthwhile. To me the rest of the Bill seems too vague and too comprehensive and to be pure, utter and sheer empire building. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs make a statement to the Senate informing us on the present position in regard to Rhodesia? What has been the effect of sanctions on Rhodesia since the beginning of the Smith regime? If there has been no effect, is it not time that we accepted the status quo and put Rhodesia on the same footing as is South Africa? 
The honourable senator asks that consideration be given to the making of a statement, i gather that he is suggesting that a detailed statement be made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs rather than by myself. I agree that that is the proper way in which to do it. I will raise the matter with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether it would be possible for  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to make an interim report or statement in regard to the rather iniquitous and almost criminal actions of the Sydney Stock Exchange in relation to short selling. Secondly, has the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange any power to compel the Sydney Stock Exchange to alter its habits? In other words, where does the public stand with regard to misdealings and misadventures on the Stock Exchange? Does the Senate Select Committee have- the power to correct any such situation? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI shall deal firstly with the first part of the honourable senator's question.- As I recall the position, the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange has indicated on a number of occasions - certainly publicly, and I have an idea that maybe he has done so in this place - that it is the hope of (he Committee to present at least an interim report during the present session: ' . 
 In June. 
 But :that will be too late. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. I remind him that on 18th February I asked the then Minister for Health a question concerning the banning of cigarette advertising on television and was given the stock reply of the tobacco industry. In referring to the then Minister for Health perhaps 1 should have referred to the Department of Health, because I addressed my question to the Minister who was then representing the then Minister for Health, f ask: Was the then Minister unaware that British, United States and Canadian reports have all stressed the need to ban cigarette advertising on television? Is the Minister aware that the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council has advocated the cessation of such advertising? Why would the former Minister for Health prefer to accept the twaddle of the tobacco industry rather than advice from his own National Health and Medical Research Council? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. On 15th March J asked him what effect sanctions had on Rhodesia and whether it was time that we treated Rhodesia on a par with South Africa. I was wondering whether he had any further comments to make. 
Firstly, on 2nd July last year  Mr Heath  announced that his Government would make another effort to see whether a settlement on the basis of the 5 principles were possible. Secondly, the British Foreign Secretary stated, on 9th November, that as a first step a message had been sent to  Mr Smith.  Thirdly, no details of the British Government's correspondence to  Mr Smith,  which the Minister understood was continuing, were released and the Australian Government was not therefore in a position to comment on it. Fourthly. Australia continues to regard Britain as exercising legal and constitutional responsibilities for the people of Southern Rhodesia. Fifthly, sanctions have created strains on the Southern Rhodesian economy, particularly on its balance of payments. Sixthly, even if the sanctions were ineffective Australia is obliged, by its membership of the United Nations, to continue to apply sanctions against Rhodesia. Those sanctions are mandatory for all United Nations members. Finally, unlike Rhodesia, South Africa is an internationally recognised sovereign State which achieved independence by constitutional means. In the background of all those things and of the discussions going on it is thought inappropriate to make an official statement at this time. 
 Mr Deputy President,  I have a question which I wished to address to the  President.  I hope that you will convey it to him. Today, for the first time since I was elected to this chamber 9 years ago, I discovered that when a function of the type held in this Parliament today occurs the staff dining room is closed down. This seems quite wrong. I understand that ali that is needed is the employment of a couple of extra waitresses. Will this matter be taken up with the Joint House Committee to see that this anomaly is corrected? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - I will refer the question to the  President  and he will report to the honourable senator in due course. 
The question I direct to the Minister for Supply affects 3 departments. On 1 6th February I asked him a question relating to the dates on which the DC3 aircraft of Jetair Australia Ltd were purchased. Eventually a' statement was made which did not contain the information sought. Can the Minister now obtain for me the answers to the following 3 questions? Firstly, what is the date of the first request from foreign governments for DC3 aircraft or the first date on which the Department of Foreign Affairs suggested to foreign buyers that they might take DC3 aircraft? Secondly, what is the date of the first intimation from Jetair Australia Ltd to the Government that it had DC3 aircraft for sale, or the date on which a Government department first approached Jetair Australia Ltd for the purchase of these planes? Thirdly, on what date did Jetair Australia Ltd cease its passenger services? Can the Minister also inform me the losses sustained by Jetair Australia Ltd on those services? 
In speaking to the motion that the statement be printed I wish to bring before the attention of the Senate the fact that this statement has been read already in another place. Could we not adopt the practice of a Minister introducing a statement and then asking for the statement to be incorporated in Hansard instead of, as in this case, honourable senators being required to sit here for 25 minutes and listen to the Minister reading a speech that we read in the newspapers this morning? I am not criticising anyone but I would like the procedure to be simplified so that in future when a statement is made here a day or even an hour after it was made in the other place all that is required is for the Minister to introduce the statement and request that it be incorporated in Hansard. I ask you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to take up this matter with the appropriate body. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Very well. 
I think that for too ' long I have been silent in regard to the question of Vietnam. I more or less have believed that Australia was going to get out of this intolerable mess. But here again we are debating a mealy mouthed hypocritical statement without any regard to this insane war to which there appears to be no end at the present moment. I ask honourable senators to recall the principles put forward by the Government as to why Australia was fighting in Vietnam. We have seen every one of those principles evaporate into thin air. The result is that no principles remain. One wonders how the Government can justify its claim that we are in Vietnam in support of a just cause. Why is it, then, that Australia is the only white country that is involved in Vietnam. Why is it that we are so intelligent and so brilliant that we can analyse the situation to be thai we must be in Vietnam when no other white country will dream of sending troops to Viestnam 
 All right. Why is it that every white country other than Australia and New Zealand has not participated in the Vietnam war? 
-1 am sorry. I should have said America, too. 
I have 3. America is the country that is involved in this war and no other white country has supported it with the exception of Australia and New Zealand. Apparently the governments of every European country, of every other white  country, do not  believe in a Vietnam involvement. But our Government does. Why does it? The Government cannot give any answer to that question except to say that it is following the American hopes because it wants aid from America in order to bolster up its own electoral chances. The Government wants to save expenditure on expense so that it can spend the money that it saves by not building up Australia's defence capabilities on electoral promises. It is time that we stopped this approach. There is no other expression to describe the situation than to say that it is time that Australia stopped licking the bottom of the American people by remaining in Vietnam. That is the only expression to describe what we arc doing. 
This is the state that this nation has reached. Australia must take this action because it is so scared that in the future no-one will protect it. So. wc do this instead of building up our own defences to protect ourselves. Whatever America does, we do. Everyone knows now that America has admitted that its action has been wrong and that it should be out of this war. We will get out of it as soon as America does. With the accelerated withdrawal of American troops, we are starting to withdraw our own troops. Everyone knows that the American people cannot be trusted and that if some other war occurs in the Pacific or the Asian regions we have no guarantee that America will come to our aid. We have no such guarantee. Yet, we continue our involvement in the war in Vietnam to try to please the Americans. Every other country involved in fighting in Vietnam has been bought. Mercenaries are fighting in Vietnam. The Australian Government is proud of our troops who are fighting alongside these mercenaries in Vietnam. They are fighting there to please the American people. How low can we go? 
The Government rationalises the situation in its mind by saying that Vietnamisation is occurring and that this is the answer. This is its excuse or its let out. The Government believes it can get out of Vietnam by saying: 'Oh, yes, Vienamisation has been successful'. Everyone knows that it is successful at the moment, but I ask: Where will Vietnamisation be on the day when American troops are withdrawn completely from Vietnam? Everyone knows that it is not true that all people are supporting the Government of South Vietnam. Those honourable senators who have read the report by the Central Intelligence Agency will know that it shows that people in high places and their associates were really pro-Viet Cong. Yet, we continue to believe the nonsense that we are told about Vietnamisation. 
We are informed that the military forces of South Vietnam are so good now that the Americans can leave. How many yards do honourable senators think the South Vietnamese would have advanced into Laos if it had not been for American cover? To what degree can we accept the credibility of the American  President  who has said that American troops will not advance into Laos when, as long as American troops are 10 feet above the ground in helicopters, they do so? Everyone knows that the South Vietnamese could not have moved one yard into Laos other than for the presence of American air support and artillary support. So much for Vietnamisation! 
The Government talks about it because Vietnamisation is its only excuse to get out. lt has forgotton the principles upon which it entered the conflict. Not one of those principles is mentioned today because the Government is ashamed of them just as everyone else is ashamed of them. So, the Government lets them slide, lt says that Vietnamisation is taking place and therefore Australia can get out. The day Australia walks out of Vietnam it will discover that Vietnamisation is a myth. Everyone knows that it is a myth. The day that we walk out of that country i! will be back to where it was before the conflict. 
 The Vietcong. I should say. must be laughing up their sleeves all the way to- 
 Yes, because this sort of talk is listened to. The Vietcong know that, in due course, they will be able to take over when they want to. What is Australia to do when the Americans leave Vietnam? Australia wants out of Vietnam and it rationalises its desire by saying: Well, we have Vietnamisation: therefore we can leave'. But Australia cannot leave Vietnam if it believes in the principles that it enunciated when it entered the conflict. If the Government believes in these principles it cannot leave Vietnam. So. the time has come for the Government to accept that Vietnamisation is a myth. The Government should get out. Get out, for God's sake! Go with the Americans! 1 cannot understand for a moment why the 
Government allows our armed forces still to stay in Vietnam. Of what value are they? If civil aid is needed, send civil aid. If the money that has been spent on this war by America and by Australia had been put into civil aid, there would never be need for a war. This is because Communism breeds on poverty. 
I am glad to hear that. I never knew that before. I am not talking about East Germany- 
I am talking about Communism which breeds in people who have not. That is the situation in East 
Germany, so I am told. Ali right. Let us get back to South East Asia. That is where Communism breeds. In every country where there are peasants who do not own land there is a fertile breeding ground for Communism. If we had spent our money supporting Vietnam with aid we would not be in the mess that we are now in. So I say to the Government: For God's sake get out of Vietnam now. Be honest with yourself for a change. You will have to get out of Vietnam sooner or later and you will have no option but to leave when the Americans leave. So get out now and show some spunk. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Young)  adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at 10.11 p.m. till  Tuesday,  20 April at 3 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice 
How many immigrants hare entered Australia from Mauritius in each of the last5 years? 
Do these immigrants enter Australia under the assisted passage scheme? If so, what is the cost per immigrant? 
I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 9.55 a.m., unless otherwise ordered. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
That it is in the best interests of Australia that we should immediately recognise the People's Republic of China. 1 thank my friends in the chamber for supporting this motion to permit the discussion of this matter of urgency. The Republic of China is not China itself; it is really Taiwan. Two main issues arise. The first is the recognition of China, which is completely separate from the question of its taking a seat at the United Nations. 1 want to make that point quite clear because those two things can be dealt with separately. I am sorry that members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party are having a party meeting because I hoped to persuade them that they could support the first matter, the recognition of China, without getting too hot under the collar over its having 2 seats at the United Nations. 
I am aware of the Country Party but its members did not stand and support this discussion. They are a bit dicey about it. First, we have to deal with China. I have lived there and I  wa3  there again 6 years ago. I intend going there again next year. There is no problem facing Australians who wish to enter China. They can get in when they want to on the same basis as any other individuals., except previously the Americans and now the Russians. You can get into that country without any problem if you want to; it is easy. 
China is a country in its own right. It has a civilisation much older than ours and its people chose a philosophy of their own. Many countries have chosen their own philosophies and we do not argue with them; we recognise them. We receive representatives from Chile, Spain, Greece, Russia and so on. We recognise all these countries and we exchange ambassadors. But for some unknown reason the Government turns a blind eye when it comes to China because China is Communist. There are other Communist nations which we recognise. When one goes to China one realises what happy people the Chinese are. I think we will find that the ping-pong players from America and Australia who are visiting China will confirm what I say upon their return. Certainly the business people who freely enter China agree wilh what I say, that is, that the Chinese are a happy people. 
Whilst Communism does not suit us and we do not support it, the Communist philosophy suits the Chinese people ai the present moment. Whether they will retain it is a matter for themselves. We have no right to dictate to them the sort of philosophy they shall enjoy. Political capital is made out of the fact that they are Communist. We see diagrams with big red arrows and the words 'the Chinese are coming down here'. When one is in China and mentions this the people laugh and say: 'Where is Australia?' At the moment they really are not interested in Australia. It is not Communism which makes anyone interested in Australia, as many honourable senators present will know. The Japanese were not Communists but they came down and endeavoured to conquer Australia. It may well be that the Japanese will conquer us if not militarily at least economically. China will not advance this way because she is Communist. If she does come here it will be because she is a world power, as Japan was, and wants to expand. Let us not hear any more statements about the Communists coming down here from China. Those statements remind me of the old yellow peril. 1 suppose most of us in this chamber would remember this, although the young people would not When I first came to Australia I heard about this dreadful yellow peril. We were told that we had to be frightened of the Chinese and the Japanese because at any moment they were going to take us over. 
I believe that it is immature of the Government, Ministers and members of Parliament to keep on referring to China as continental China, Red China or any other China you like except the People's Republic of China, which is the name the Chinese have chosen for themselves. We would not like it if they made derogatory remarks about Australia. The People's Republic of China is a country of 700 million people, if not 800 million. Nobody seems to know the exact population. While I am talking another million may be added to the population. So, this is a nation and a nation with its own civilisation and one that we should respect. 
I think we should clear up some facts in regard to Taiwan because we hear from so many people that the people there are not Chinese, that they have the right to do what they want and so on. I ask honourable senators to remember that it was 400 years ago that the Chinese migrated to Taiwan. It was the kingdom of China and they were Chinese people who migrated there. In 1887 the Chinese Government declared Taiwan to be a province of China, but unfortunately in the war with Japan, in 1895, China had to cede Taiwan to Japan and Taiwan became Formosa. In 1945 Chiang Kai-shek was being defeated and soundly trounced. There is no-one in China or among what are called the old China hands who will not agree that Chiang Kai-shek was one of the most successful of the corrupt warlords of China. He was successful not only militarily but also in corruption. Yet he managed to gain sway. There is some worry as to whether he was not even treasonable during the war because, although he gave lip service to being on the side of the Western powers and the Chinese troops had their base in Chungking, they very rarely fought Japanese troops; they were far more interested in attacking Mao's troops. 
So, when Mao came forth from his wilderness he swept the country because the Chinese themselves had no faith whatever in Chiang Kai-shek. Very few Chinese - say 1 per cent at the most - would have any faith in Chiang Kai-shek. The only place to which he could go was Formosa. So he went over to Formosa. He was able to go there because when the war ended and Japan was defeated Formosa was handed over to the Nationalist Government that was in power in China at that time. Formosa was given to China as a trust and nothing was determined as to what should happen to it. Then Chiang Kai-shek arrived with his troops. He was not a welcome guest. The Taiwanese did not want him there. They did not want him at all. In fact, in 1947 there was the famous rebellion in which 20,000 Taiwanese were massacred by Chiang Kai-shek's troops. I want to point out here that, the Nationalist Government having been given Taiwan as a trust, Chiang Kai-shek had sent troops over before he himself escaped to Taiwan. In 1949 Chiang Kai-shek actually went to Taiwan. 
In 1950, the following year, without any legality he just arbitrarily appointed himself as  President.  He was the selfproclaimed  President  of Formosa or Taiwan, whichever you like to call it. The Japanese peace treaty was signed in 1951, but no legal status was given to Formosa or Taiwan. Its legal status was still undetermined. The sovereignty of it was not transferred to any power, So, we have here not a situation that Taiwan is a sovereign state at all but a situation that it is a Chinese province which the Japanese took over by war and which was left in a state of flux until Chiang Kai-shek arrived. Today in what is called 'Formosa' there are 12 million Taiwanese. Let the Government not keep on telling us in this chamber that these are free Chinese people. They are not. They are Taiwanese, and no-one knows whether they want to go back to Red China, as the Government calls it, or whether they want to stay with Chiang Kai-shek's China. There are only 2 million of the Chiang Kai-shek Chinese on the island and those 2 million keep in subjugation the 12 million Taiwanese. 
I do not care what it is called but the Australian Government calls that democracy. Can anyone believe that it is democracy when 85 per cent of the people are Taiwanese and are allowed only a 3 per cent token representation in their House of 
Assembly, their Parliament? fs that democracy? Yet that is the Government which the Australian Government supports all along the line. As I have said so frequently in this chamber, if Chiang Kai-shek, as he says he will do every year, did land on China with 3 divisions, 2 of them would desert him immediately. So many of these people are Chinese. They believe in China and want to go back to China, so much so that there is a Formosan Liberation Independence League which we should be supporting as we support the people in Vietnam. There are 14 million people on the island of whom 12 million are Taiwanese and 2 million are Chinese brought over by Chiang Kai-shek. 
The Americans keep on arguing that they should be given protection. Therefore, because the Americans do that, we have to do so too. It is of no use for the Government to say that we have an independent policy in regard to China. That is one of the absurdities of all time. In practice, as soon as America does one thing, we follow. It may have been incidental that American ping pong players went into China and then our ping pong players went into China. The Americans suddenly say: 'We will relax trade with China,' and then Australia says: 'We will relax trade with China.' It is just coincidence, of course. 
f am not arguing with what the honourable senator is saying. I am pointing out that the Government said yesterday or the day before - I forget which - that it would relax trade with China. The Government probably has not the wisdom of  Senator Little.  If he had advised the Government that it had already relaxed trade it would not have made that statement. 
Wc do trade with them but I said that we were relaxing trade. 
There will be more trade. 
Very well. It is not important whether we use the word relaxing' or the word 'increasing'. If you relax trade, you get more therefore you increase trade. Let us have a play on words if that suits the honourable senator. However the basic principle remains that, according to the Government, we want to have more trade but this statement has been made - this is what the argument was about - because the Americans said that they wanted more trade. We continue to hang on to America's coat tails. We cannot have an independent resolution of our own, a will to live on our own, a will even to defend our own country. We have to rely on America every inch of the way. Now when we have an opportunity to make friends with a country with which we want to make friends and to trade, we hold back to see what America will do about Taiwan. That is why the Government will not recognise China. 
I come now to the question of trade with China. We have the pathetic absurdity of this Government pleading with the Chinese: 'Please buy our wheat, please buy our wool, but we will not recognise you. Perhaps if you were to buy a bit more wheat and a bit more wool we would recognise you.' Is it not time that we got away from that? Is it not time that we said to the Chinese people: 'We will be friendly with you'? Is not that the way to get them to trade with us - because they know that we are friends of theirs and that we want to be friends of theirs? If that were done trade would flow automatically. That is the first step that should be taken. We should not be crying all the way to China that we must have her support - that she must buy our wheat to keep our country people on the land and buy our wool to help our country people and to keep the Country Party viable. That is the wrong way in which to go about the whole business. We should recognise the Chinese as our friends and only then should we talk business with them. It is hypocritical and virtually unethical to demand support from a country which we do not even recognise. Let us try it the other way and we may find that a great deal of benefit will flow to us. I believe that if we recognise China first, trade will follow. 
The question of the United Nations crops up as another issue in the field. Some people are worried that if we recognise China Taiwan will suffer. Let me tell the Government that if it is not very careful there will be no problem about that at all because indications are that Taiwan may be expelled from the United Nations. Whether China should be admitted to the United Nations and Taiwan expelled is known as the Albanian question. At the last meeting of the United Nations for .the first time on this question a majority vote was obtained - 51 to 49 with 25 abstentions. The Americans have tried to stall on the matter of Chinese representation in the UN by seeking determination of whether it is an important question for United Nations purposes. Australia supports the view that a two-thirds majority vote is required on the question of whether China can be admitted and Taiwan expelled because it is an important question. If that is defeated by a simple majority, the Albanian question no longer becomes an important matter and does not need a two-thirds vote. On the issue of whether it is an important question, 62 voted in favour of its being so regarded and 52 voted against, with 7 abstentions. At the October sittings of the United Nations only 8 countries need to change sides and vote for the inclusion of China on this important issue and the important issue is gone. Then it becomes a simple majority question as to the admission of China and the expulsion of Taiwan. 
If there are any friends of Taiwan here it is time that they told that country to fight for its seat in the United Nations because it will lose it if it is not careful. Instead of worrying about the inevitable recognition of China the Taiwanese should be trying to foster enough friends to ensure that they keep a United Nations seat. At the moment they do not have enough. On a vote of 51 to 49 they could be expelled. If the important question issue is defeated this year, as I believe it may well be, Taiwan will be expelled. Taiwan should be busy seeing how it can retain its seat, rather than worrying about China's getting on to the committee. The Canadian solution could be a face saver for the Government, the Australian Democratic Labor Party and any other group that opposes the recognition of. China. 
That may be so, but people do change their policies at times. I am not blaming the DLP. Everyone changes with greater maturity and knowledge. The point is that we should be helping our friends and seeing that China gains a place in the United Nations. If we can help to keep Taiwan as a member of the UN - which seems to be impossible - I think we should do so. The Canadian solution appears to me to be one that the Government can readily accept without losing its principles altogether. We entered the Vietnam war with a declaration of so many principles but now we are getting out of it without any principles. If we believed in the principles enunciated by the Government 7 or 8 years ago we should still be there and not withdrawing our troops. But we do not believe in those principles any more and are withdrawing our troops. 
Why do you support a Government that allows its troops to come out when you believe in those principles? 
-Vietnamisation must be the greatest laugh of all timePeople should realise that the moment American troops are below a certain level Vietnamisation will disappear like a flash. I do not want to keep on the subject of Vietnam. A question of principle is involved in not recognising Red China but it is disappearing with America's acceptance. Probably the Government can lose a little bit of face but if it accepts the Canadian solution it will not lose too much face. For heaven's sake let us be mature about this situation. Let us realise that we do not go crying for trade because of the position of our wheat and wool industries. Let us say: 'We want to be friends with you.' That is what I want to plead. We should get to know China. Honourable senators cannot know China if they have not been there. Six years ago after I had returned from China I said in this chamber that the first thing we should do is to send a parliamentary delegation there. This should be done so that we can get to know China. Honourable senators will go there and be surprised. They do not have to believe what people tell them. They can see for themselves. I know I will be given the answer: 'They only show you the best.' Do not we show everyone the best when they come here? Do we take them to Aboriginal hovels and let them see those? We do not worry at all. Of course China shows the best when we go there. The Chinese are proud of what they have to show. 
I was amazed. As a matter of fact I shall give honourable senators an instance of medical equipment which I had seen at a fabulously wealthy hospital in Hong Kong. It had equipment made in Germany which gave a report on a blood test in 25 seconds. When I was in Shanghai I was asked to go and see the trade display. I said: 'No, I will go and see the medical display, not the trade display.' They had exactly the same type of machine and it was manufactured in Shanghai. I ask honourable senators not to under-estimate the Chinese. A delegation of all members of Parliament, including members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party should go to China and see for themselves what is going on there. I make this plea to the Government because it is essential. It is far more essential to do this than to send people there to talk about wheat, wool and other trade. We must get there first. .We must show that we want to be friendly. We will not get any trade or help from them if we do not do this. To my mind, the simplest way to do this is to send a delegation there and let the people of Australia- 
I took it out of the resolution for a good reason. 
Because I wanted to discuss it. I have been discussing lots of points which are not in the resolution. 
I do not need reminding. I took that point out because I thought the words were redundant - that there should be one issue only and that the question of visiting should not be left in. The one issue is that we should recognise China. I took out the other words but I mention them now so that  Senator Little  will hear them. A delegation of members from both Houses of Parliament should go to China and see for themselves. Another reason why I took out those words was because people do not understand why I mentioned October. The reason is that there are 2 great days in China. One is in May and another is on 10th October. That is the time to show the Chinese by sending a delegation that we have come to support them. 
There are people who are so immature that they do not realise that the Chinese have a great day. There is only one China. 
I am happy to know that the honourable senator- 
Could the honourable senator make his speech afterwards? I want to finish. The point is that they have a day in China, whatever the honourable senator may like to call that China. The People's Republic of China has celebrations in October. I suggest to the Government that we ask the Chinese Government whether it will receive a delegation from our Parliament during those celebrations. I think that we should go there without discussing wheat, wool and trade and ask for their friendship. If we do this we have a chance in later years of selling them more wheat and wool. I have raised this question because I think it is of vital importance at the moment. It is necessary that we arrive at a decision on this matter urgently. I hope that most honourable senators will support me in this view that we should give immediate recognition to the People's Republic of China. 
by leave - Following on  Senator Murphy's  remarks, if the Senate does not want to debate a certain matter it can do exactly what I propose to do with this item. I propose to move that it be postponed until another day. 
Motion (by  Senator Turnbull)  agreed to: 
That General Business, Order of the Day No. 2, be postponed until the next day of sitting. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - The third item under Orders of the Day relates to Commonwealth and State Revenue.  Senator Little  proposed a motion in relation to this matter and  Senator Cotton  is in continuation. The matter stands adjourned, and I think that it should remain as such because we are not ready to proceed with it. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That General Business, Order of the Day No. 3, be postponed. 
Motion (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
That General Business, Order of the Day No. 4, be postponed. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - The next item under Orders of the Day is No. 5, Medical and Hospital Costs - Select Committee. The debate in relation to this matter was adjourned on 2nd June 1970, and  Senator Douglas  McClelland is to continue his remarks. Perhaps he may wish to respond.It is a very long-standing matter, but perhaps the senator may wish to make some comments. 
is prepared to listen to and does at least think about the matters raised. I propose to raise questions which I have raised before.  
Honourable senators may recall that when the Senate was debating the National Health Bill last year it was told by the Department of Health, which on that occasion adopted its usual attitude, that nothing in the legislation could be altered. I will give an example of what I mean. The Opposition, Independent and Australian Democratic Labor Party senators were on that occasion accused of a heinous crime in trying to alter the legislation in relation to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee to provide that the names of its members be made public. These names have now been made public, but nothing detrimental has happened. The second point we made at that time was that when a drug company unsuccessfully submitted a drug to the Australian . Drug Evaluation Committee an answer should be given to that company as to why the drug was refused. I cannot imagine why the Department was so immature in its thinking as to advise the then Minister for Health, as it did at that time, that the Drug Evaluation Committee could not give the reason to the drug company concerned because other drug companies would hear about it. It is laughable when one considers that all drug companies know exactly what the other drug companies are doing, although the formulas they use may be a secret. 
A further example of the stupidity of such actions by the Department of Health is the fact that it does not have to give the reason to the competitors of the company concerned; all it has to do is say to the company which submits a drug for evaluation: 'We have refused your drug on the following grounds' and give the reasons to the company. The Department does hot have to make these reasons public. I have raised this matter because I think it is completely unfair to a drug company which spends millions of dollars in the preparation of a product to find that it is knocked back and no reasons are given for doing so. I am not going into the question of why a product which has already been passed in the United States of America or Great Britain is knocked back in Australia. The reason for the knocking back of a drug by the Drug Evaluation Committee is usually a simple one. If it is not due to the potency of the drug it is usually due to the base of the drug or to the fact that some petty ingredient is contained in it which should not be contained in it. In that case the potency or the ingredient could be altered. Surely justice would prevail in the argument if the company which submits the drug for evaluation had the right to know why it was knocked back. After all, if it is only a simple thing the company could alter the base or alter the ingredient and. have the drug accepted by the Drug Evaluation Committee. 
No,I am not talking about drugs being listed by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, which is a different body; I am talking about the Drug Evaluation Committee knocking back drugs on the grounds that they do not come up to standard and not telling the companies concerned why they have been knocked back, so that they do not know why their drugs have been rejected and therefore cannot make any effort to correct the formula. A different proposition is involved here. That is probably why the Minister for Health interjected. I also think that the reason should be given as to why a drug is not included in - the pharmaceutical benefits list. There does not seem to be any reason why it should not be given. Actually, when the Senate agitated for the reason to be given it found out the immaturity of the advisory committee's thinking on the matter. Time and again I have raised queries as to why certain drugs have been taken off the pharmaceutical benefits list. One of these drugs is amesec. After many inquiries about why it was taken off I was given the reason that this was because it was a triple compound drug. Despite this, another triple compound drug was included in the list a month later. This shows that there is no rationale in the Department's thinking and no justice in its actions. There was no reason why it should have taken that drug off the list. My first purpose in rising was to speak about the Drug Evaluation Committee. I hope the Minister sees justification in my cause. 
I deal now with ophthalmologists. They were the subject of heated discussion during the debate on the National Health Bill. I think this matter should be raised in the Senate now carefully and without the heat that we had during the debate on the Bill when each party was trying to reach compromise with the other parties. No specialist benefit is payable by the benefits societies to a person referred to an ophthalmologist for treatment if the treatment requires that the patient have glasses. I do not think there could be anything more ridiculous than that. It is pure politics. The optometrists do not want the benefit paid. They put pressure on the Government to stop this benefit being paid. I again raise with the Minister this matter in the hope that he will do something about it. A patient referred to an ophthalmologist, no matter what treatment the ophthalmologist prescribes for the patient, should receive the full specialist benefit. Whether the ophthalmologist prescribes eye drops or spectacles, it is still treatment. If it is part of the treatment that spectacles are prescribed, the benefit should be applicable. The ophthalmologist does not make the spectacles. He writes a prescription and the optometrist makes them. He is not taking any work away from the optometrist. It is quite wrong for us to have a political rather than a. just attitude to the matter.  The third matter I raise relates to smoking. Recently I asked a question, to which no answer was given, as to why the Government does not heed the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council-its own committee. The Minister gave a departmental answer but forgot to answer my question. In 1962 the Council recommended that certain action be taken in regard to smoking. It is now 1971 but not a thing has been done. We do read in the Press that some State governments intend to do something. Successive Commonwealth Ministers have stalled on the Government's attitude to the advertising of tobacco. Everyone knows why.- Even- the Press knows why. It is because of the money poured into the Liberal Party by the tobacco industry. The owners of the tobacco companies, lobbyists and an exmember of the Liberal Party, who now sits in Canberra to look after the interests of the tobacco companies are to blame, as is the Press for carrying tobacco advertisements. If it is true, as was stated in one reply given to me by a former Minister, that advertising on television has no effect on the numbers smoking, why do the tobacco companies spend 10.5m each year on television advertising? The Government cannot have it both ways. If the tobacco companies believe that television advertising is successful - they must believe it otherwise they would not spend $ 10.5m a year on advertising- 
It is a tax deduction, but they could still save on that amount. They cannot write off the entire sum to taxation, only a percentage. If they believe that television advertising has some merit - other people apart from the tobacco people believe that television advertising has some merit otherwise there would be no advertising - the Department should act. A statement should come from the . Department that the banning of tobacco advertising on television should help to prevent smoking. The present Minister, in his reply to me, said that the incidence of smoking had not decreased. I think he mentioned indirectly the coupon system in England. There $25m was spent on the coupon system to encourage smoking. That is equal to advertising and explains why the incidence of smoking has not decreased as much, as it could. The gallup polls show that at least 75 per cent of non-smokers think. that such advertising should be banned. Strangely enough, 54 per cent of smokers also think that it should be banned. The greatest harm in television advertising.. is the advertisement which says that the smart thing to do is to smoke. I do not want to go into all the points of morbidity that occur through smoking, lt is not' just lung cancer, although that is the' main complaint, but also heart disease, peptic ulcers,, bronchitis, asthma and many associated complaints are caused by smoking. . 
The Government is perturbed about the smoking of pot, but it should be more perturbed about the smoking of ordinary cigarettes which produce just as harmful if not more harmful effects and a greater morbidity than does smoking pot. 
 I do not think we can go beyond what, the British and American experts and . the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council have had to say! They agree that smoking is extremely harmful. 
They cannot quite correlate those two. I saw some research going on in Indianapolis in the United States where excessive smoking of pot is thought to be a danger because smokers lose concentration. Again let me stress that it is only the real pot smoker who is affected. If one intends to smoke pot one has to smoke it to the last bit. One has to inhale. A tot of kids say that they are on pot. In Indianapolis the researchers said that 96 per cent of high school children were on pot. 
That is whatI was told by the research team. When I asked if I could have a try, they said that I could buy it anywhere down the street. When learned that I did not smoke they said that it was useless my trying. The basis of pot smoking is to inhale. Unless one inhales the smoke there is no effect. When the real pot smoker exhales, no smoke appears. He gets the maximun effect. Most of the kids smoking pot just take a puff and exhale. No harm is caused. They get a kick out of saying that they are smoking pot. 
Laughable and ludicrous statements have been made in the Senate and by members of the medical profession that aspirin must not be taken because if one takes a certain amount of aspirin one will get certain kidney diseases. The result is that aspirin has been removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list. As I have pointed out time and time again, we do not worry about pensioners. We can bump them off. We are allowed to give aspirin to pensioners but not to anyone else. The reason why aspirin was removed from the list was that the people who had suffered the disease were swallowing about 80 tablets a day-, which no sane person would dream of doing and which no doctor would order. But there is an hysteria about aspirin in the Department and it wiped aspirin off. Apparently there" is no influence but' Nicholas brothers have to influence the Liberal Party. But when we come to the question of prohibition of smoking, about which the evidence is so great- it is backed by every adviser to the Minister - we find that not a thing has been done in 10 years. Advertising on television has been banned in Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, - France, Italy, Scandinavia, Russia and - this will appeal to the Government- the US also. Usually we follow as quickly as possible anything that is done in the United States but we have not been too fast this time. We rush into Vietnam and we do everything else that the Americans say, yet they banned this advertising 4 months ago and we still have not done so. 
Federally. I know that advertisments about cigarettes have been banned in the United States. I think the ban came into effect on 1st January. I make this plea to the Minister: The Americans have done this, why cannot we? This time I am on the side of the Americans. I suggest to the Minister that he follow the good example of these countries and do something about it. It is of no use for the Minister to say that we cannot do this. It can be done. It is a simple matter to alter a section in the relevant Act and ban these things. The purpose could be achieved in another way. You could ensure that whenever there is a cigarette advertisement on television the tobacco companies provide equal time for health advertisement condemning the smoking of cigarettes. The greatest harm of this advertising is the appeal to young children. This should be stopped. Young people think it is the thing to do. They think that they have to smoke in order to be with it; that they are with it if they have a cigarette in their hand. Apparently they do not know where to put their hands - I did not either and I put them in my pockets. They have a puff and think they are with it, not realising the harm they are doing. 
For years the Department of Health has told us that it will solve this problem by education. That was the answer I. was given 10 years ago when I first came to grips with a Minister for Health and he argued along those lines. What has the Government done about education and what good has it been? I ask 2 more things in regard to smoking: Firstly, that the Government make sure that there is a label on every cigarette pack indicating that cigarette smoking is a danger to health; secondly, that the tar content ' be indicated on the cigarette pack. I think the public is entitled to know the tar content because the greater the content the greater the danger of the cigarette. These are 2 simple things which can be done. If the cigarette companies say there is nothing wrong with the smoking of cigarettes, they should not be worried about having these 2 things on cigarette packets. Those are 2 ways in which the Minister for Health can help. Then he can get the PostmasterGeneral to amend the Post and Telegraphs Act, or whatever it is called- 
Whatever it is, he can amend the Act and ban the advertising of tobacco on television. The Minister will then have done something for his Department. At least the Department will be showing an interest for the first time in preventive medicine. I have stated the only advice that the Minister's officers can give him for his reply to my speech. They cannot keep saying that the Department is going to educate the public or the kids. That is what the Department has been telling us for 10 years but it has not educated them. 
The final matter I wish to raise about the Department of Health concerns overseas visits by officers of the Department. I have just been given a reply to a question I asked the Minister. I have not had time to go fully into the reply and will have to spend some time with the Department of Health. The documents I have show conclusively that if you want to travel you do not even have to be a member of Parliament; you need simply join the Department of Health. It seems to me that everyone in that Department gets a trip abroad at some time or another. The only people who seem to be excluded are the typists and stenographers. They do not seem to be getting into the act, I do not know why. Perhaps they are too low down the scale or there are not sufficient trips available. Already this financial year 34 members of the Department of Health have had trips abroad. Are they necessary? It is no good trying to rationalise the situation because one of the officers went to Vietnam to instruct the Army on how to disinfect army vehicles. The reason set out for this trip is 'advise Australian Army authorities on policy' - apparently this could not be done by letter - 'and procedure of cleaning vehicles for quarantine purposes'. Apparently that second part could not be done by example here in Australia. This is just an excuse for a trip. 
I have quickly glanced through the explanations given. Another relates to a person who attended a seminar. People in private practice have to pay their own way to such gatherings. They do not attend at Government expense. I expect, when I receive an answer to my question asking for details of members of all departments who have been overseas, that the Department of Trade and Industry will be the way ahead of every other department. This may encourage the Department of Health to spur its members on. Some of the reasons given by the Department of Health are absurd. Another explanation relates to an officer who attended a conference in Vienna - a nice place, and I might add that the trip took 6 weeks - of the Economic and Social Council for the adoption of a protocol on psychotropic substances. 
Why do they have to go abroad for 6 weeks to do this? 
Perhaps that is what they did but I do not think the explanation given means what it says. 
I am not sure. Perhaps that trip was justifiable but on looking through this list 1 do not think it was justifiable. Someone made a trip in order to attend an international congress. People in private practice have to pay their own way to attend such things. Why should officers of the Department have to attend so many of these conferences? I have only looked through one document and I have S more to read, in my opinion it is scandalous that so many officers have to go abroad. It seems that if one officer goes abroad everyone else has to have a turn. I think the Public Accounts Committee should investigate the number of trips abroad. I do not know whether that would be the correct procedure to adopt but obviously there should be some investigation. A medical man or a bio-chemist would be required to assist in determining whether some of these trips are justifiable. I raise this matter because one Department alone already has sent 34 officers abroad this financial year. I asked that question a month ago and I do not know how many are away now. It seems scandalous to me that the Minister should allow this and not query what is going on. These items are included in the departmental budget so they just send officer after officer. I suppose it is good luck to them that they can get these trips. 
This brings me to my final remarks on the first reading of this Bill. I refer to the United Nations. I do not want to go fully into this issue because I have made my position quite clear previously and my stand has since been supported by many writers. Unfortunately I do not have the papers with me but overseas writers have stated in the Press that what I said was virtually correct, that the United Nations is one of the greatest time wasting organisations in the world. I think it was worked out that 490 hours are wasted. It costs $1,000 a minute to run the United Nations and thus you can see that the time wasted costs millions of dollars. One article suggested, quite rightly, that the meeting time of the United Nations could be reduced to a meeting every second year. I suggested that the meeting time of the United Nations could be cut by half because that is virtually the amount of time wasted. I do not want to go into a full discussion of the United Nation:! - I may do that another day - but I want to mention the question of members of Parliament going overseas. Having criticised the departments for sending so many officers overseas I should like now to mention the matter of members of Parliament making overseas trips. I think it is a good thing that they do go overseas - at least I thought it was a good thing that 1 went. I learnt a lot and discovered that many things happen which should not happen. 
The honourable senator might think that is more important. Perhaps he should raise with other members of the Party the suggestion that members of his Party do not go to the United Nations. I feel that we should clear up some points about visits of members of Parliament to the United Nations. This will not effect me as I have been there and I have seen what happens. 
No, I do not want to stop them. I want to make it better for them. I propose to state what I think should be done. First, when a member of Parliament goes to the United Nations he has to be away from Australia for 3 months. This is not like the usual parliamentary jaunt where a delegation goes overseas for 6 or 7 weeks. On visits to the United Nations one is away for 3 months. If a member of Parliament is sent there for 3 months I think he should be entitled to take his wife. This is the first matter that should be cleared up. I do not know whether this is within the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the  President  of this chamber, but I should like the matter to be referred to the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs for his consideration. The allowances which are paid to a single man on a visit such as this are quite generous, but in the United States for a married couple the allowance is quite hopeless. 
If a member is entitled to take his wife the allowance should be increased. I am not interested in the suggestion that because a public servant cannot have this benefit, members of Parliament should not have it either. I think members of Parliament are way ahead of the Public Service - even Heads of Departments-and 1 think it is time that we took this attitude and made it quite plain that we are not subservient to any public servant. 1 do hot ever want to hear the argument that public servants cannot take their' wives or members of Parliament cannot do so. That is nonsense: We are above them and let it be well known that we are above them. When you get to the United Nations you are working in a department and. it is their opportunity to get back at you. I am quite Certain that members of. the other place will back up everything that I have said about the treatment that we received. We were practically juniors in some foreign affairs department and were treated as such. 
In the United Nations. 1 shall give an example in respect of which some honourable senators may not agree with me. At that time the Americas Cup was on. That is a fascinating exercise and one in which any Australian would be interested. When 3 members of Parliament are in New York and only 120 miles are involved you would think that the Mission could provide a car. You have no idea of the difficulties that we had in getting transport to go down to see the Americas Cup because of the expense of providing a car. I do not want to go into the way in which we obtained a car, but we eventually got there. And when we did arrive there, what did we find? Two members of the Navy had been seconded from Washington, all the way up to Newport, to look after Frank Packer and all the other VIPs, to see that they had the right seats, boats and everything else. They stayed there for 6 to 8 weeks. 1 suppose it would be suggested that they were studying - probably the American Coast Guard service - and that would be given as the official reason for their being there. That sum of money could be spent to have 2 members of the Navy at Newport, but in the case of 3 members of Parliament the Ambassador put every obstacle in our way to prevent us going. The situation was ludicrous. As a matter of fact at that time I rang the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr McMahon,  while he was in Washington and said that if it was proposed to treat us like children we were walking out. 
 The first point I make is that wives should be allowed to go and that members should be given an adequate allowance so that they can live and entertain properly because it is necessary to entertain and if a member takes his wife with him he has to do it out of his own pocket. No money is left over. The second point is that members should be classified as Ministers while they are there. I am not referring to Ministers in the sense of Cabinet Ministers. In the Foreign Affairs Department, once a person has been an ambassador, it is too much to expect him to serve in any other branch of the Department as a first secretary or counsellor, so he is given the title of Minister. It does not matter that in the Army or Navy a person is made a temporary general or admiral and, on relinquishing the post, reverts to his original rank; in the Foreign Affairs Department this just would not do. Consequently, all over the world we have Ministers who are exambassadors. This entitles them to a car. I do not say that members should be entitled to a car, but they should be given the rank for social purposes. It is no good sneering at this sort of thing because on such a visit there is so much social activity at the United Nations that a member has to be in it. If he takes his wife, the only way to eat is by attending all the functions that are given. But you cannot attend the functions because you are a political adviser and they invite only the ambassador and the Minister. So I make this second suggestion and I ask the Minister responsible to bring it to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The third point is whether members should take an active part in the committees. The British; Canadians and many others do this. I can see a difficulty in this for an Opposition representative because how could he sit on a committee and subjugate his Party's  policy to that of the Government while in that committee? That could be awkward, but where a Goverment member is appointed he should be made part of the delegation itself and should be given a committee to attend. There are 6 committees and there is no reason why Australian members should npt take their place as delegates in the same way as the British and many others. Another point that I raised is the question of making a speech at the United Nations. Although I did not want to do this, I know that one of our members wanted to do so and it is done by members of every delegation other than the Australian delegation. Members of Parliament make a speech, even if it is written out for them, from the podium of the United Nations. I suppose it has some significance if they can say to future generations that they spoke at the United Nations. When I suggested to the Minister that a member of our Party should make a statement it was fantastic to see how he evaded this issue. Finally he gave the poor chap a very small speech to make in a very unimportant committee. The whole purpose of the ambassador seemed to be to keep us well under control. 
I was not asking about it for myself. There were some funny aspects of our visit We had secret meetings and we were all told to rush about and contact as many people as we could to persuade them to vote against China's admission. I said: 'But,  Mr Ambassador,  you do not expect me to do that, do you, because I have been around to try to get them to vote for China.' There are these problems and they do provide some humour. Another point . about the United Nations is, as happens in every department, that there is this building up. Two years ago there were 12 members of the Australian staff and now there are 24. They recruit people from all over the world. They write to everyone in the Foreign Affairs Department and ask them to come to New York, for 3 months. Of the ones who say yes they hold a ballot and decide who is to come. There are many people who want to go to New York and they go there. It seems to be a complete waste of money when we have 2 representatives on every delegation when the majority of countries have only one. This has become a matter of .status, that we must have bigger and bigger delegations, and so it goes on. 
The last matter to which I will refer - it has nothing to do with members of Parliament, but I would like to mention it - is the overblowing of the importance of our own delegation. The security is really laughable. We have. 4 security guards there round the clock, although the building has its own security guards. There are double doors which can be locked but which one could push over. There, is this extra security because the attitude is: 'We are so important'. I think I mentioned this point in a previous speech. .Some documents are marked 'confidential'; some are marked restricted'; and so on, These documents have to be put in a special waste paper basket so that they can be shredded and burnt. 
One member had inadvertently left a pink sheet, which was a restricted document, on his desk. The next day the administrative officer marched in with the document in a sealed envelope and said:  Mr So-and-so,  you left this on your desk last night'. He said: 'Did I?' He opened the envelope and then said: 'Yes, I did read this'. The administrative officer then said: 
Bui this is a restricted document. You should have put it in that little bucket over there'. What was the restricted document? It was a statement that the Prime Minister had made in the House. This happens time and time again. I took documents to the ambassador and asked: 'Why is this restricted?' Perhaps it was a copy of something from Hansard or something that had already appeared in the Australian Broadcasting Commission news information that we had received that morning. This is part of the great build-up and the attitude: What important people we are'. 
I do not want to criticise the mission too much. What I am trying to do is to help members who will go there in the future. There are three matters that affect them. The first is that they should be allowed to take their wives and that their wives' expenses should be paid. Entertainment allowance comes into that if wives' expenses are paid. The members should be termed Ministers on a temporary basis, while they are there, so that they can have the social status which is so important - in fact, far more important than anything else - in the United Nations. 
I propose to discuss the motion that. the Senate take note of the statement because I think it is one. of the most1 'absurd statements that we have seen presented to this chamber and it is time that1 the absurdity ceased. First I should like to support what was said by  Senator Murphy;  If both Houses of Parliament are required to pass an Appropriation Bill, I suggest that the course now being followed is illegal. I should like to hear from the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in this place, whether it is illegal for a reduction in an appropriation to be made arbitrarily without first bringing in a Bill to the two chambers requesting that the amount to be appropriated in respect of certain items be decreased. I am not sure about the constitutional aspect. I leave that to the Minister. I maintain that  Senator Murphy  has a point. 
The second matter I wish to raise is that the statement was made that, we had to reduce expenditure, but what have we been doing in the last couple of weeks? We have been increasing expenditure. Let us take just one item that comes quickly to my mind. Last night we were told about the appointment of 13 new reporters for the News and Information Bureau. If the Government really believed in the statement it has presented to the Parliament, it would not be increasing the staff of the Bureau; nor would it be providing an extra $100,000, I think it is, to accelerate the filling of vacancies - I .suppose, before the end of the financial year. 
I will come to the spout. The point is that we have a statement from . the Government saying that we must reduce expenditure because of the state of the. economy, but in the last 2 weeks we have been increasing expenditure as fast as we can. without any Minister telling the. estimates committee before which he appeared that we do not need certain money or that we should put certain money aside until after this dreadful situation in regard to the economy has passed. 
That brings me to the third point. When will we stop this childishness about economies in and around Canberra and. anywhere else? What does turning off the water spout really mean? I forget how many thousands df people came to Canberra to see the city over the recent long weekend. Surely they were entitled to see what they have been paying for and will pay for in the future. The Government knows as well as we do that this is a ridiculous statement. The position is ridiculous. It is time the Government gave up this cry that the economy is in ' danger. Just recently it suddenly gave away $50m or $60m without any problem at all. Yet it keeps trying to tell us that the economy is sick. We think it is. We think the statement that the economy is sick could be right. But it is not sick if the way the Government is behaving is any guide. Let the Government make up its mind. If things are good and we have the money to give to people, let it stop this absurdity of not cutting the grass, not shifting a garbage bin and not turning on the water spout. In view of the colossal expenditure on the water spout, the people of Australia are entitled to see it and, as it were, get a little of their money back. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I do not know whether he can answer it, but I ask him to obtain the information. In view of the fact that the Government stated recently that selected Asiatics are admitted as migrants to Australia, what was the reason for admission of an average of 1,500 uhselected Mauritians - that is Indians - each year for the last 5 years? 
In view of the fact that the Minister for Health was apparently not joking on Tuesday when he supported the voluntary code of ethics for cigarette advertising on television will he answer the following question: Is not the prime object of the Department of Health the prevention of disease? What has the Department of Health done about the prevention of disease caused by smoking? What is the estimated total expenditure of the Department for this financial year? What is the total expenditure on advertising for prevention of disease? What is the total expenditure on advertising for prevention of disease from smoking? Finally, as the Minister failed to answer this question on Tuesday I ask him again: Will the Government advertise on television during the hours of 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. the ill effects of smoking? 
I should like to speak on behalf of the group sitting on the back bench in this corner. I cannot say that I am the leader of the group because we are an egalitarian group. Nevertheless, I am quite aware of what the others think about the choice of a President. We all welcome your election to that position. At the same time may I stress, now that the number in this part of the Senate has increased by 200 per cent, that the time has come when we should have more opportunity to speak in this place. I know that all occupants of the chair are impartial, but the custom has arisen that the Whips decide who shall speak next. While I was alone in this part of the chamber, I had to fight for time to speak. I always knew that on a Wednesday the Liberal Party Whip would come to me and say. 'Would you like to speak?' I would say: 'Yes, I would love to speak as we are on the air.' He would say: 'You can speak at 1 1 p.m.' I think the time has come for that situation to change. 
There were other times when I was offered a chance to speak, but on those occasions the Whip knew that he had no other speakers and was prepared to allow anyone to speak. Now that there are 3 of us sitting here the time has come when the Whips must realise that we constitute quite a portion of the Senate, that we cannot do our duty without an opportunity to speak, and that we have just as many rights as has anyone else in this chamber. I know that you,  Sir, will  uphold our right to speak and that you will call on us to speak far more frequently than the Party Whips would wish. We think that the Liberal Party nominated, a very good person for the office of  President.  We are glad to see you there. We hope that you stay there and enjoy the fruits of office. We know that you will be a very good  president. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) - I wish to inform honourable senators that  His Excellency  the Governor-General will be pleased to receive  Mr President,  and such honourable senators as desire to accompany him, in the Senate Opposition Party Room forthwith. 
I am certain that I am speaking on behalf of the honourable senators in this corner of the chamber when I say that we wish to extend our congratulations to  Senator Prowse  on his election to a position carrying very onerous duties. I am quite certain that he will carry them out conscientiously, as he carried out his ordinary parliamentary duties. The same remarks as I made on your election,  Mr President,  apply to the election of  Senator Prowse. 
-I ask a question of the Attorney-General. Is there any constitutional impediment to the introduction of a Bill to make it compulsory that at least SO per cent to 90 per cent of every Ministry be elected by its parliamentary members? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Why have an average of 1,500 unsolicited Mauritians, i.e., Indians, been admitted into Australia each year for the last 5 years in view of the Government's recent statement that selected Asians are admitted as migrants to Australia? 
I wish to raise one query. I support the remarks of  Senator Byrne.  My query is: Why is the composition of the Standing Orders Committee not stated? Does the fact that the proposal provides that the Standing Orders Committee shall consist of the  President,  the  Chairman  of Committees and 8 senators mean that an Australian Democratic Labor Party or 
Independent senator will be a member of it? Why does it not state that there shall be, for example, 4 Government senators, 3 Opposition senators and 1 Democratic Labor Party or Independent senator on it? There must be a reason why standing order . 33 does not designate the parties that will be represented on the Committee. 
That is true. 
But the membership is to be increased to 8 honourable senators. I would like it to be an unwritten law that one of those 8 honourable senators will be a Democratic Labor Party senator or an Independent senator but there is no guarantee that that will be the case. 
I have a small point to raise. Both  Senator Townley  and I are a little perturbed about this matter.  Senator Townley  does not want to break his maidenhead so he has requested me to ask this question. Could we have a ruling on how many honourable senators have to stand up in their places in support of an urgency motion? There seems to be some discrepancy. 
It is not. Standing order 64 states: 
Such motion must be supported by 4 senator* rising in their places. . . . 
It does not say that such mover must be supported. 
Obviously the mover is supporting the motion. I would like a ruling. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minis:ter for Primary Industry so that he may resolve a matter for me. I understood that the proposal for the subsidy on wool was such that if the average price of wool was below 36c the Government would make up the difference to 36c. However, I have been given information by a wool grower who has said that that is not quite true; that every wool grower will benefit overall by roughly 20 per cent. In other words if wool is sold for 40c the grower will still receive an increase. Is there any truth in the information given to me? 
 There are 2 points to  Senator Murphy's  argument. The first is that when I first become a member of this chamber 9 years ago nobody voted on urgency motions. What we are doing now is applying the gag. This is contrary to our nature. 
Yes. It is only in the last 2 to 3 years that the last  speaker  on an urgency motion has invariably put the question. That is applying the gag. Most of us resent that. We should make up our minds whether we vote on all issues or on none. I do not think we should have this proposition of the gag being applied. That is the first point. If we decide to vote on each motion, this puts the Government in a spot. It will be in trouble. If the Opposition, the Democratic Labor Party or the Independents, with enough support move an urgency motion, we can introduce business ahead of the Government's business. To that extent, I think we have to look at the matter from the Government's point of view. I would like to see  Senator Murphy's  proposals implemented, but I think it should be stated formally that either we vote on every urgency motion or we do not vote on any urgency motion. I think we should get that clear. 
I would ask the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  to consider whether it would be possible to insert a clause providing that no vote shall be taken on a matter of urgency. As  Senator Cavanagh  pointed out, the application of the gag has become a political thing. If a Party thinks it has the numbers, it applies the gag. That never happened before. A lot of us do not like the gag being applied. We are not being consistent about the application of the gag. 
 I ask the AttorneyGeneral a question. Does he know whether it was a majority decision of the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee to introduce the motion the other day for the disallowance of the Australian Capital Territory Evidence Ordinance? If he does not know, could he obtain that information and let the Senate know whether it was a majority decision? What has his Department done since Thursday evening in regard to rectifying the situation created by the disallowance of the ordinance, in view of the fact that, as outlined by  Senator Wood,  the Senate supported the motion to disallow the ordinance not because it had anything against the ordinance but because of the method by which it was being introduced? Would it not have been in order to introduce today that very same ordinance by altering the title only? That was all that was necessary. If the Attorney-General does not agree with me in regard to that, will he inform the Senate what will have to be done? Why could legislation not have been introduced today so that it could pass through the Senate and the House of Representatives and become law tomorrow, without all this nonsense? 
I ask a question of the Attorney-General in order to clear up a misunderstanding. As I understood the Attorney-General, he said that he was unable to introduce into this Parliament a Bill to cover the position brought about by the Senate's rejection of the Australian Capital Territory Evidence Ordinance. I do not know of any authority which states that a Minister may not introduce into Parliament a Bill for an Act to cover an ordinance which has been disallowed. I think the Minister said that he would have to wait 6 months. Will he tell me the authority for his statement, or did I misunderstand him? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question relating to a question I asked him last Thursday. It concerns the deficiency allowance for wool. On that occasion he put me off by saying that he was waiting for a statement to be made by the Minister for Primary Industry. Now I want to ask him this question and I would like a straight answer because the public is anxious to know the real position. If the Australian average price of wool is 30c per lb we understand that the Government will make it up to 36c by means of a deficiency payment of 6c. If the wool grower's average is 40c or even 50c per lb, is it true that the Government will make it up with an extra 6c? If so, how can it be called a deficiency payment? 
I have a question to ask the Minister representing the Minister for odds and sods or whoever represents  Mr Howson. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The question is addressed to the Minister representing which Minister? 

 - Mr Howson. 

The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - What is the Department? 
Social environment, I think - a miscellaneous department. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - The question, then, is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts? 
Yes. I want to know whether any moves have been made to finalise the appointment of a gallery director. If not, would the Minister - whoever he is - ask  Mr Howson,  the Minister in charge of the department responsible for that matter, whether he will give a public explanation of why nothing has been done in appointing a director for the new national gallery. 
I oppose the motion moved by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  because I believe that we came to a decision last week. I am not speaking for the independents or for  Senator Wood.  We voted against the original motion. I do not think that the independent senators are so weak hearted that they would change their opinion without any real reason. Obviously the Government is hoping that it can buy one of us over to vote for this motion so that it can get the original resolution rescinded. 
I atn speaking for myself. At least I vote for myself and I can talk for myself. I do not have to wait for a Party ticket to be elected to the Senate. 
1 had, and I gave it up. That is my prerogative. Each of the independents will speak for himself. I do not believe that we are men of such weak character that we will change our opinion in order to attract some goodwill from the Liberal Party or the Labor Party. Therefore, I am maintaining my vote in opposition. The first thing that we should remember is that the motion was moved originally as a result of a recommendation made by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. That Committee has always shown to this chamber a rather due sense of proportion and a due sense of justice as to what should be done. More often than not this chamber has agreed with its decisions when it has suggested that an ordinance be disallowed. I understand that on this occasion there was a unanimous decision by the Committee. 
You were a member.  Senator Davidson  was a member and so was  Senator Lawrie.  I am acting on what I heard  Senator Cavanagh  say last night. He said that it was a unanimous decision. If he was wrong, I apologise. Whether it was a unanimous decision or not, the Liberal members of that Committee have changed their minds since they suggested that the ordinance should be disallowed. Being the Party hacks that they are, they voted for their Party rather than for the Committee. They should not be allowed to serve on a committee if they put their Party before their allegiance to a committee. 
I know they did not. I have only just acertained who are the members of the Committee. I am opposing this motion because of the arrogance of the Minister. I am surprised at his attitude. He is puffed up with power. He is incensed. I admire the Minister. I think he is one of the more intellectual members of this chamber. He always had my goodwill, until last week. Now he is adopting this attitude: We are right, come hell or high water. Anyone who wishes to contradict what he states is wrong. Surely anyone with any sense, realising that the Senate had disagreed with him, would have accepted the decision and said: 'Let us see what we can do to rectify the position'. The Minister has said: 'We will not accept that decision. We will get one of the independents or  Senator Wood  to switch over and then we can rescind the resolution'. That is what the Minister has done. He will not accept any suggestions emanating from this side. Like other Ministers he is puffed up with the importance of his Department. No-one else can be right. The Department and he are right. This does not apply only to the Attorney-General's Department. It applies to every department. I have mentioned this time and time again with regard to the Department of Health. There are no people wilh brains outside the Department. This is the attitude of every Minister and every departmental head. 
When the Leader of the Opposition gives him an opportunity - even puts it on a golden platter for him - to get out of his predicament, he turns it down because it was not the Government's idea in the first place. I tell the Minister: You could have accepted it; you could have done it straight away. But you even have the audacity to deny the Leader of the Opposition leave to speak. 
May 1 say to the Minister, in passing, that I think the time has come when he should realise that many of us ask questions. We try to get to the bottom of things. But all we get from the Minister, each time we open our mouths, is a lecture on how stupid we are and that he knows the answers. That is no way for a Minister to behave. Certainly our questions have a political background, but we want to know the answers. We do not want to be sneered at by the Minister and told that it is a ridiculous sort of question to ask. 
We are told that legislation must be introduced because a serious situation has arisen. Who brought on this serious situation? The Minister himself admits it but he rationalises it by saying that he had discussions with the Committee over 4 months or 5 months. I have seen a Bill introduced into this House unprinted because the Government wanted to rush it through all stages. The Government got it through in that form. The Bill passed through this 
House and the other place in 15 minutes. It was not a parliamentary salaries Bill either; a Bill of that sort gets through all stages fast. This Bill in the unprinted form took only 15 minutes to pass and it became law the next day. 
The Minister keeps saying that a serious situation has arisen. It is a serious situation of his own making and he has been given an opportunity to get out of it. But he will not accept the opportunity because if he were to do so it might give some credit to the Australian Labor Party or to an independent senator for gaining some slight victory and this would never never do. He says: 'Let us do it the other way; lel us show that we have the power. Let us show that we are the only people who can think'. 
The Minister then went on to say that this matter required early rectification. Because of the way he is going on, it will not be rectified until after the Budget is passed. Time and time again we ask why the Minister cannot introduce legislation dealing with this matter. All he kept saying to us yesterday, every time he was asked this question, was that we cannot legislate because it is an ordinance. We are not talking about an ordinance: we are asking the Minister to introduce a Bill. But the Minister says: 'No, we cannot legislate because this is an ordinance'. The Minister is confused, as is shown by a statement he made, and which appeared in yesterday's Hansard.  Senator Murphy  has referred to it. The Minister yesterday made the following statement: 
All  I  say is that  if  the Senate should carry the motion  for  the disallowance  of  this ordinance it will restore these ancient laws of New South Wales which still have applicability in the Territory and which it is the purpose of this ordinance to supersede. 
In other words, the Minister has given the opinion that all would be well because up till 29th March 1971, before the new ordinance was declared, the Minister was acting on those old rules. The Minister said that we would only revert to it. Today the picture is different. The Minister is wrong, but does not admit it, of course. I asked him straight away after that whether a Bill could be brought in to replace the ordinance but the Minister sort of sneered at me and said: 'Sure, you will hear from me.' The Minister will hear from me in due course. He said that he would think about bringing in legislation. Since then he has not done anything but think about bringing in legislation. 
It does not pay to sneer at everyone in this chamber because sometimes the Minister may want to be even friendly with them. Today we have the opportunity to rescind this vote so that the pride of the Minister and the pride of his Department can be upheld. That is all it is. It is not that we are prepared to accept a Bill. Up to the time when  Senator Murphy  criticised something in the ordinance no-one had said a word and it was accepted that this ordinance should be passed and that if there were errors in it they could be corrected. But the Minister has been handed a simple solution on a plate and he will not accept it. The Minister will not tell us why he will not accept it.  Mr President,  the Minister may have intended to try to tell us when he asked for leave but we did not grant him leave. We took this action because he was rude enough not to grant leave to the Leader of the Opposition. I think he adopted very bad tactics. We are now waiting to see whether the triumph of the Government is to be made complete by seducing one of the voters in this section of the chamber from his previous conviction so as to support the Minister- The Minister could say straight out: 'Right, here is a simple solution from the Leader of the Opposition and we will accept it - the measure will be passed tonight, be sent to the other place and go to the Executive Council tomorrow morning. There is no reason why this cannot be done. I must say that the Minister has gone down considerably in my estimation since this matter arose. 
The Minister also made quite a to-do about our attaching a lot of importance to the Australian Capital Territory in the national Parliament. This comes strangely from a member of a government that does everything else to try to boost this situation in a reverse way. Time and time again when we criticise expenditure on the Australian Capital Territory we are told that this is the national capital and that the Federal Parliament must do this and that. Yet in this case the Federal Parliament is doing something which the Minister criticises because it is not important enough. I quite agree with that. So many of the things are not important enough and if the Minister's Government would be consistent I would be happy about it. One only has to look at the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission which looks after a population of about 150.000 people in Canberra. In any other city with the same population one medical officer would do the job. That is all he would do. But here we have a commission of about 5 or 6 officers and about 10 other ancillaries. 
The Minister should be consistent. He should not be telling us all the time that it is not important to discuss this matter. The law says that it shall be discussed in this Parliament and therefore it can be discussed in this Parliament. Therefore, I want to make it quite clear that for all those reasons I will stick to my vote and 1 will oppose this motion, lt the AttorneyGeneral said - and he has not done so yet; at least I did not hear him - that sonic injustice is being done 1 will change my vote. All he has said so far is that, criminal trials cannot proceed. I do not know how much injustice there is in that situation. Here again, I object to the word criminal before the accused are even tried. Nevertheless if the Minister can show that some injustice is really being done to these people 1 will change my vote. So far he has not. All he has done is shown that he wants the Government to be triumphant come hell or high water and that is going to be it. For that reason I will vote against the proposal. 
The Independent senators are being accused of frustrating or defeating the 
Government. Our prerogative is to vote whichever way we feel we should vote. We have no party ties. I am quite aware of the pressures that have been applied to the other 2 Independent senators. It is up to them to decide which way they will vote. If they want to change their style of voting from now on, they are entitled to do so. We are not members of a party. Each has his own opinion and votes accordingly. I believe that we have reached the absolute ultimate in hypocrisy tonight. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  pleaded with us to have the ordinance passed now because people are suffering owing to our inhuman actions. When he was defeated on that and when a proposition which would enable him to do exactly what he asked was put, he voted against it. This Bill seeks to do nothing more or less than reconstitute that ordinance. A lot of rot has been said about the Attorney-General not having had time to consider it. The whole purpose of the time lag is to enable the Attorney-General to consider it and in the meanwhile the ordinance will take effect and ali the injustice which is occurring as a result of the actions of the Independents and the rebel from the Liberal side will not continue. 
I am nol interested in what he would be called on the Labor side. That is party politics. Some senators loathe each other so intensely it is no wonder that Australia is in a mess at present. However, to return to the subject we are discussing, I say to the AttorneyGeneral that he should remember what  Senator Withers  said. He accused us of not being big because we would not accept the previous motion. I suggest that the AttorneyGeneral be big, stop this rot and get on with the job which he said he wanted us to do, namely, agree to this Bill which validates the ordinance. The Bill can go before the other place tomorrow, be passed and the Executive can meet tomorrow and the Bill become law. Let us have no more of the stupid rubbish which we have heard tonight, accusing us of causing inhumanity to other people, because that is so much poppycock. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Health. In April 1970 the Department of Health believed that anatensol, largactil and me.leril should be prescribed for pensioners whereas valium should not. Since 1st August this year we have been able to prescribe  Valium  for pensioners but unable to prescribe the drugs which were formerly free. Is there any sane explanation for this complete reversal and, if so, what is it? 
The honourable senator will be aware that restrictions on the prescription of pharmaceutical benefits are recommended by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee and not by my Department. The honourable senator is no doubt aware of the structure of that Committee. The minor tranquilliser valium has been available for pensioners for any disease or condition since 1st August 1970 and is still available. Arising from a Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee recommendation, major tranquillisers, including those mentioned by the honourable senator, were made available on 1st August 1971 for the treatment of all patients suffering from a major psychosis. These include pensioners suffering from these conditions. The Committee's recommendations in relation to tranquillisers were based on the expert advice it receives from the appropriate medical colleges. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. As the Australian Government recognises the South Arican Government and believes that there should be a free exchange of sporting teams, what principle underlies the Australian Government's attitude compelling it to impose sanctions upon the South African Government? 
 I agree with every word that  Senator Willesee  said even though I voted in favour of  Senator Byrne's  motion. I did that only because I felt that his proposition to delete notice of motion No. 1 and substitute No. 11 deserved some credit in this instance. But what  Senator Willesee  has said is absolutely correct. If the Senate were not careful some honourable senator who had an item at the beginning of the notice paper could keep on bringing up the ones at the end. In fact,  Senator Willesee  has put the idea into the heads of the independent group. We too might even play. I think we should accept  Senator Willesee's  remarks for the future. But when we are dealing with a special case such as the one raised today I am prepared to support it. 
 Because I do not belong to any political party I can quite safely vote against this proposition. It has surprised me to see that all parties are willing to accept a little sop or a little bone which has been thrown to them so that they can hope in the future that one of them may obtain that morsel. 
Senaor Gair  -  That does not include the DLP. 
 I thought it had optimistic hopes one day of being the government, but apparently that is not so, so I will withdraw the Australian Democratic Labor Party from that group. 
 For heaven's sake, we have just had a lecture about trying to disparage people. It seems to me that the practice in this chamber is that when a person does not agree with somebody else all he can do is criticise and try to disparage the other person for not having the same views. 
I did not reflect on you. 
I am sorry if I did reflect on you. When I made that remark the Democratic Labor Party did not cross my mind. I was thinking of the Liberal Party and the Labor Party. So you did not really come into my reckonings at all. If  Senator Gair  will let me I will come back to my point. I am opposed to the present proposal because it does not solve the problem that we have. Let us get down to the business of it. If we really believe that more Ministers should be appointed let us say so and readjust the position in the Senate. I am not indulging in personalities in relation to any of the Assistant Ministers who have been appointed or are about to be appointed. There may be good grounds for their appointment and they may well deserve such appointment. I am not attacking them. I also believe that if anyone needs an assistant it is the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  But that still does not alter the fact that I do not think we are going about it in the right manner. I believe that if we really want to take some of the burden off the Leader of the Government in this chamber we should appoint a House manager. In the other place there is a Leader of the House who conducts the business of that chamber and who lets the Prime Minister get on with his job. There is no reason why this could not be done here. The Office of Whip could be enlarged and the Whip could take over the duties of running the business of the Senate thus freeing the Leader of the Government in the Senate from some of his duties. 
We are told that the Leader of the Government in the Senate must have assistance because he has the Health portfolio. But the next Leader of the Government in the Senate may be the Minister for Works. What would he have to do? Nothing at all. He could adequately carry on the job without an Assistant Minister. Can honourable senators visualise that eventually the position of Assistant Minister would be abolished? Of course not. Once these things commence they keep on multiplying and they continue. Is there any need for more Ministers? I shall not get into a dispute on whether we should have more Ministers in this chamber. To me that seems a totally different argument. The fact is that we do have Ministers here. Looking at Ministers and their portfolios we have seen the number rise to 27. Now Assistant Ministers are to be appointed. There are 180 members of Parliament and now roughly one-third of Government supporters will be Ministers or Assistant Ministers. We are getting to a ludicrous stage when we have so many Ministers. I ask honourable senators to look at the jobs which some of them have. There is a Minister for the Navy, a Minister for the Army and a Minister for Air. It takes 3 Ministers to conduct these departments which in Australia are small. These are people who should be made Assistant Ministers to the Minister for Defence. We have a Minister for Housing. That this is a full time occupation must be the laugh of the season. What does the Commonwealth Minister for Housing do? He allocates money. That is a full time job. 
Yes, but there are not many of them. Does the Minister allocate each home? Of course not. That is a policy matter. This department could be incorporated in another department. The multiplicity of these departments is increasing. I do not want to become personal, but the Minister for Works has the capacity to run 3 portfolios. Works is a negligible portfolio. It is not a full time job. The Minister for Repatriation has a Repatriation Commission which tells him exactly what do do. He sits by and makes pleasant noises to the returned servicemens associations, trying to woo voters. There is no need for a Minister for Repatriation. His duties could be included in the Health portfolio, the Social Services portfolio or one of the other portfolios. 
Looking at some of the other portfolios, I suggest that Education and Science is important but it is still not a full time job. It could not be because, again, it simply requires the Commonwealth to hand out money. That is not a full time job. Most of these jobs are made full time jobs by the application of Parkinson's Law. Any Minister can fill in his day, saying: 'What a terrible job I have', but do not tell me that the Minister for Works and the Minister for Housing have a full time job. What can the Minister for the Navy and the Minister for Air do except go around inspecting troops, to the horror of the troops themselves? We allow this situation to expand and now we are going to have Assistant Ministers. I think that if we are to have all these Ministers there should be an increase in the number of Ministers in this chamber. Assistant Ministers should not be appointed. I think that an honourable senator should be appointed to manage this chamber and 2 more Ministers should be appointed here. In this Senate we have one-third of the number of members of Parliament and therefore I believe that in this chamber we should have onethird of the number of Ministers. 
The correct way of dealing with the situation is to increase the number of Ministers in this chamber. We are told that at the moment the workload is unfair on the 5 Ministers here. That is true. They each have to carry out the work of representing  4i  portfolios which are in the other place. But they do not have to do that. They can easily say: 'Put that question on notice'. That is unsatisfactory but that is virtually what most of the Ministers do unless one advises them beforehand that one will be asking a question. Ministers in this chamber have to have a much wider range of knowledge than Ministers in the other House. If we had more Ministers here there would be no need for Assistant Ministers. 
Finally we come to the matter of the privileges of Assistant Ministers. As everyone knows, once we start privilege it snowballs immediately. We only have to look back  3i  years ago in regard to the VIP aircraft to see this. No-one was allowed to use them except the Prime Minister, the Governor-General and somebody else. Very soon that number of people increased. I read in the Press that the Australian Democratic Labor Party was going to raise the matter of the misuse of the VIP aircraft, although that Party has not raised the matter. We now find that all Ministers are using them. Junior Ministers are using them. Ministers are using them to go for holidays. A VIP plane has taken a Minister to the Gold Coast, to Townsville and other places. If we ask for the records this will be shown. Honourable senators can see that in time the VIP aircraft will become a common means of transport for all Ministers to use as part of their ordinary duties. I mention this situation as an example of snowballing. The same circumstances could apply to Assistant Ministers. Today we are told that they are not going to receive an extra allowance; there will be no perks. But the next thing we know, they will have to have a secretary, then 2 secretaries and then as they are on duty we will have to give them an extra allowance. This is how the situation develops. It snowballs with the result that although today we say that there will be nothing like that happening we know very well that in 6 to 12 months it will be happening. Then it is an accepted fact and nothing can be done about it. 
Now that  Senator Marriott  is here I shall repeat what I said earlier. I have no doubt that the Government has made a good choice in selecting him to be an Assistant Minister but 1 still object to the principle of Assistant Ministers. This has nothing to do with personalities. On the grounds that I have enumerated, I believe we should not approve of the ministerial statement. We should not have Assistant Ministers. We should not keep talking about the wrongs of the system and then perpetuate them. We should start at the beginning and say: 'We are not having Assistant Ministers. We are going to have more Ministers in this chamber.' I think the Government is tackling this matter in the wrong way. I oppose proposals set out in the statement. 
But this matter was raised earlier than that. Anyway, I will disregard that matter for the moment. The point I wish to make is that we have to do something about defending ourselves. I do not care whether the Government wants to spend millions at Cockburn Sound or anywhere else, but  1  do know that it is necessary io have a naval depot somewhere for our ships to be fitted out and looked after. After all, if one wants to be cynical, there is no safer place than Cockburn Sound to have one. I do not for one moment believe that any threat to Australia will come from the Indian Ocean. I think that is just plain crazy. We have buried our heads in the sand because it has suited the Government to keep telling everyone that the Chinese will be coming down to attack us. They have no interest at all in us. They have never had an interest in us. What can we give the Chinese? It is said now that the Russians will be coming down. If there is to be an enemy it will be Japan, but we do not hear the Government saying anything about Japan being a threat to Australia and Japan will not be coming down through the Indian Ocean. We are allowing ourselves to be bought economically by Japan and the Department of Foreign Affairs is taking no notice of what is happening. lt is not advising the Ministry of the potential threat of Japan to Australia's peace and security. Our future enemy will not be China and it will not be Russia: it will probably be Japan. Let me assure honourable senators that after 15th May, which is, I think, the date on which Okinawa will be handed back to the Japanese, Japan will turn nuclear. No matter how much they protest that they will have nothing to do with nuclear arms they will become nuclear after Okinawa has been returned to them. It is a matter of national pride that they have Okinawa back. They know that America would not give it back if they went nuclear beforehand. Already the Japanese have increased their defence vote by 20 per cent and Japan is virtually a nuclear country already. It has its atomic energy reactors for peaceful purposes. 
Debate interrupted. 
1 rise to speak on only 2 matters which have arisen out of the discussion on the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs now before us. I refer to, firstly, the question of defence and, secondly, the question of who is going to take over Australia. In regard to the question of defence, I agree wholeheartedly with  Senator Gair's  statement that it is time Australia did something about her own defence. I cannot understand the attitude of the Australian Government to defence. Over the last 22 years it has done nothing about defence. We have been lucky that there has been no need for Australia to defend herself in that time. Nevertheless the Government has shown little regard for Australia as a whole by not adopting a real defensive attitude. It should be realised that for many years only 1 per cent of our gross national product was spent on defence and that the figure then went up to 2 per cent. About 5 years ago it increased to 3 per cent and then because of the Fill fiasco it went up to 5 per cent. However, the percentage of our gross national product now spent on defence has decreased now to about 3 per cent. One can see how little Australia is spending on defence when one compares our expenditure on defence with the expenditure of other countries. For example, Great Britain spends about 9 per cent of its gross national product on defence and the United States of America spends between 12 per cent and 15 per cent. 

 Senator Murphy was quite correct when he said that a nation can become industrially strong by not spending its money on defence. But we have not spent much money on defence for 25 years, yet we are not as strong industrially as such countries as Japan and the USA. In all that time, if  Senator Murphy's  theory is correct, we should have been building up our industry as we were not spending money on defence. However, we cannot escape the fact that the time has come for us to do something about defence. The Government just cannot leave Australia as defenceless for the next 20 years as it has been in the past. It is time Australia spent some money on defence. Everyone knows that spending money for defence purposes, is not sound electorally as it does not buy votes. That is one reason why the Government has not been spending money. After all, the USA has been in the background to help out. However, it is not in the background any longer and it is time that we realised that that is the position and did something about it. 
I do not quite know how  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson got into the act, but somehow or other I asked him a question about 3 years ago concerning an article by Stewart Harris of the 'London Times' that the British aircraft carrier 'Hermes' was available for the Australian Government to take over.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson put paid lo tho idea of Stewart Harris and said: 'Fancy listening to a journalist'; but tonight  Senator Hannan  raised the very same point that we could have obtained the 'Hermes' for practically peanuts and we could have been training a crew for all this time instead of now looking around for an aircraft carrier, which will be terribly expensive. 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. As the Minister is aware, in the last 3 financial years 3,698 public servants made trips abroad at a cost to the taxpayers of nearly $7.4m. Will the Minister ask the Prime Minister to make a general statement in regard to this matter and in regard to the policy adopted by departments for these overseas visits? Who authorises them? Are they really necessary? In particular, what percentage travelled first class and why, and how many were accompanied by their wives and why? 
Obviously some departments have a tremendous movement of departmental personnel who go overseas. When I was the Minister for Supply there was a constant stream of the hierarchy of my Department going overseas. They were involved in technological fields, particularly in relation to the aircraft industry and space research. I think that  Senator Murphy  alluded to this matter during the last sessional period - certainly at one stage during the debate in the Estimates Committees. There is a need for us not to allow our professional people to become insular and not to allow them to be deprived of the vast wealth of knowledge on subjects which are within their responsibility. I have no doubt that the same situation arises in other departments, particularly the Service departments. That is the answer to the generality of  Senator Turn-bull's  question. In addition, he has asked me whether the Prime Minister's Department will give more details of numbers, the conditions under which public servants travel and so on. I shall certainly refer that question to the Prime Minister's Department for a reply. 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform honourable senators as to the proposed programme for the balance of the day in order that honourable senators and transport officers can make arrangements? 
I welcome the question because I realise that while we function here people down the line have responsibilities for our movements. I would like to respond to the question as I see the position at the present time. The proposed order of business is that general business take precedence after 8 p.m. As it happens, we have international visitors here, and in the interests of our nation many of us have commitments this evening to entertain these visitors. This gives rise to some difficulties for us. If it is the will of the Senate I propose to go down the business paper in the ordinary way. However, the Social Services Bill is being dealt with in the other place, and if it comes over to this place by way of message there is very good reason for our disposing of it quickly. It is part heard in the other place and I have been trying to ascertain when it is likely to come to this chamber by way of message. If it came reasonably early in the afternoon and if it were the will of the Senate, I feel that we could dispose of it this evening. I would seek the will of the Senate and suggest that we put the message down and proceed with the Bill forthwith so that we could dispose of it today. I think that the Opposition, and I am sure the Democratic Labor Party too, would want that course to be followed. 
However, I am not able to obtain a fixed time as to when the Bill is likely to come into this chamber. I understand that it is possible that the other place will resume debate on it this afternoon. As soon as 1 am aware of the movement and the passage of the Bill in the other place I will acquaint the Party leaders as to the situation and then, with the co-operation of  Senator Greenwood  who will be handling it here, I will seek to have the Bill brought on and ask leave for Government business to take precedence tonight in order to dispose of the Bill. Obviously if it is ascertained that the Bill will not arrive in this place until very late we will not be able to follow the course I have outlined. In that event we would have to determine whether we wished to go on as a Senate to deal with general business tonight or leave ourselves free to entertain our international visitors, which is not unimportant. It is not as important as the Social Services Bill, but our commitment to the delegation from the Pacific countries is not an unimportant one. 
When this debate was interrupted the other night I was saying that, although the report of the Joint Select Committee on Foreign Affairs was a good one in many respects, nevertheless I felt that it was built up on a false premise. Arising out of this was the important question of defence and who would occupy the Indian Ocean. To recapitulate what I said about defence, I support the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  in accusing the Government of doing nothing for the defence of Australia. If we want to keep this country for our children and our grandchildren we should be doing something in this regard. It is no good saying continually that we have no enemies and therefore we need do nothing about defence. Even the Government does not believe that because it has bought at colossal expense a certain number of aircraft, choosing a Rolls Royce image rather than a Valiant or a Holden image, which would have been satisfactory to Australia at the present time. 
There are many other aspects of defence which need building up. We should have a proper defence programme, but we do not have one. We must spend on defence more than the 1 per cent to 3 per cent of the gross national product that we spend at the present time. Although in 1 year we expended 5 per cent for the purchase of the FI 11 As, I think we are now back to 3 per cent, and this is not good enough. When we raise with Ministers this question of expenditure on defence they answer by saying: 'You cannot have it both ways. You must have development and you have to consider that in regard to defence.' There is a nation called Israel and I admit, without anyone telling me, that it receives pretty big handouts from the United States of America. In lieu of that we have our own natural resources and we have our own income. But Israel is not only able to spend a tremendous amount on defence but it is also able to develop the country to such an extent that it is one of the wonders of the developing world. We could learn a lot from Israel in regard to both development and defence. 
I do not want to continue on the subject of defence. I want to attack the second premise of the Committee's report, which is to the effect that it is the Russians who will be in the Indian Ocean and therefore we have to protect ourselves against Russian influence. I criticise the Department of Foreign Affairs for not keeping Ministers informed of the facts of the situation. After all the Russians are in the Indian Ocean only for the purpose of encircling China. The Russians are not in the Indian Ocean region because of a wish to threaten Australia. They are not interested in us. We have nothing at all to offer the Russians. They are there solely for the purpose of posing a continuous threat to China. It is their presence which made China agree to the present visit to China of President Nixon. 
The fact that there is a Russian presence in the Indian Ocean region has brought up the claim that Australia has to do something about her own defence. Let mc point out that there are more serious reasons why we have to do something about our own defence. As I said the other night, the potential enemy to Australia is not Russia, which is not interested in this region, nor China, which has never had an interest in this region. The only people who have benefited from saying that China has an interest in Australia are the supporters of the Liberal-Country Party Government. It has been their espousing of the claim that China has an interest in Australia which has kept that Government in office. It is for that reason that they have kept on telling us that the Chinese will be coming down. But even that myth has now been exploded. Honourable senators will recall that Ministers would get up one after the other and say that those who disagreed with them did not know what they were saying about China and the domino theory, but today one does not hear any Ministers mentioning these matters. I must admit that some Ministers still get up and say that those honourable senators who disagree with their views know nothing about the subject which they are discussing and that Ministers are always in the right in what they say. This forum gives honourable senators who disagree with the views of the Government the only opportunity they have of saying what they think. The Ministers can say what they like, but in the end they are usually proved to be wrong. 
I come to the question of which country is a potential threat to the security of Australia. A potential enemy which no-one has taken any notice of is Japan. It is no good shutting our eyes to the future. If any country is going to become strong militarily in the future it is Japan. All Japan's statements about not wanting any military forces and about not wanting atomic power is sheer talk. As anyone who has had any contact with the Japanese knows, they have been trying to get the: Americans out of Japan as last as they can. lt has taken the Japanese years to do that. But the day they get Okinawa back they will go nuclear. 1 know that their Prime Minister and their Praliament have said that Japan will never go nuclear, but that is so much rubbish. 1 do not think any honourable senator would have a memory so short that he cannot remember back as far as 6th December 1941. On that day the Japanese Ambassador was telling the people of America that Japan had no intention of attacking them and the next morning Japan attacked. 
The same propaganda is being put forward now. The Japanese are saying that they have no military intentions and no wish to go nuclear, but there was recently a 20 per cent increase in Japan's national defence vote. I admit that that increase is not as large as it sounds as Japan's defence vote has not so far been very large because America has been protecting that country, but from now on Japan will rapidly expand. Japan will expand because it realises that its main competitor for power in the east is China and that if China becomes a nuclear nation Japan will also have to become a nuclear nation. The end result will be a nuclear Japan. The industrial capacity of the Japanese is such that they could outstrip the Chinese in about 2 to 3 years if they wanted to do so. So there is this potential threat. 
I am not saying that Japan is going to come down here, but it is a potential source of danger. The point I am making is that the Government is regarding the wrong country as being a potential threat to the security of Australia. The Government is looking at China as if it is the country which is going to attack Australia when everybody else knows it should be looking at Japan. Why is the Government adopting this attitude? Because it suits the Government electorally. Japan is now regarded as a wonderful ally. Money is coming into Australia from Japan to help in the development of our mineral resources and the Government adopts the attitude that this source of capital must not be disturbed. It is for that reason that the Government does nothing about regarding Japan as a potential threat to Australia's security and criticises the Chinese. We are in the process of being taken over economically by the Japanese anyhow. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I would remind the honourable senator of the subject matter of the debate. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I listened to the contributions to this debate of several honourable senators and they all spoke of defence and of the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean. The Russian presence is the basis of the report the Senate is debating. I am trying to point out to honourable senators that it is not the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean that should be concerning us but our own defence necessities. I appreciate that you may feel that I am wandering from the point,  Mr Deputy President,  but if you analyse my speech carefully you will see that I am not. I wish to conclude my remarks by saying that I still maintain that it does not matter two hoots how many Russians are present in the Indian Ocean because they are there only as a threat to China and that the Government should be looking at the real threat further to the east, that is, Japan. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, concerns the camping of people on public places in the vicinity of Parliament House. I preface it by saying that whilst 1 sympathise completely with the people who are there now and whilst I support many of their views, I do not support their continued presence opposite Parliament House. I do not think it adds to the dignity of Canberra or the Parliament. The question is: Is there a law to prevent this? If not, why not? 
-by leave - 1 move: 
That General Business, Order of the Day No. 1, be discharged. 
I have taken this action because, although I know that all honourable senators will agree with me that tertiary education should be a responsibility of the Commonwealth Parliament and that this proposition would be acceptable to the Senate, there may be problems in the other place and I cannot see a referendum being conducted on this matter. In view of the fact that the State Attorneys-General propose to hold a conference on the Constitution and because I think the Tasmanian AttorneyGeneral will be able to raise this matter at that conference, 1 have moved for the discharge of Order of the Day No. 1 . 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1  have  3  subjects to mention which are all linked by the one word 'preposterous'. First of all, I think it is preposterous that we have on our notice paper  2  questions which were asked in April and May last year and are still unanswered. One would think that the Government would have learned by now that when it does not answer questions people begin to talk and wonder whether it has something to hide. The Government has not learned the lesson of the VIP aircraft. These questions were not asked by me but I have an interest in the subject matter covered by them. The Government has nol provided answers. Why does it not supply answers in regard to Jetair Australia Ltd? ls the Government ashamed of something? ls the Government afraid of something? Does it take  12  months to answer a question that is on the notice paper? The Government could answer it in a week if it wished to do so. The Government is scared, lt knows that it has something to hide so it will not provide the answers. If I can get enough friends in this House to support me  1  will see that we propose a substantive motion to make the Government provide the information. 
The second thing that is preposterous is the altitude of Ministers. I am getting heartily sick of the attitude that God has made the Prime Minister, that all the rest are his servants and that we, the poor humble backbenchers, have to bow 6 times before we can even look at them, lt took me  3  weeks to get an appointment with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  All right, he was busy. He is a busy man, writing letters all day long. He gave me the appointment and then shoved me out in  3  minutes flat. Since then  1  have been trying for  2  weeks to get an appointment with another Minister. I admit that in the first week he had so much on his plate that I would not blame him, but for the past week  1  have been waiting for the summons to appear before God; no summons. They arc so busy. They have so much to do. Even with their Assistant Ministers they still cannot see a humble backbencher. 
They are recognised in the other place. It is absurd and preposterous that a member of Parliament cannot, get to see a Minister. It is of no use for the Ministers to say that they cannot find you. They can find you when they want you to vote for them but they cannot find you when you want them. It is absurd that we have to be humble and to pray for a meeting with a Minister. When I was a Minister  -  I am sure that  Senator Gair  will agree with mc on this - if any member, no matter who he was or whether he was from the Government or the Opposition side, asked to see me I saw him immediately. But not the Federal Ministers. They are so puffed up with their pride at being made a Minister. I would not care if they got there on merit, but when you know that it is nothing but patronage and when they are so puffed up with their own importance, you get heartily sick of it because you know that they are not really worth while people. Today my ire was raised again. 1 asked the secretary to a Minister whether the Minister would ring me tonight as 1 wanted to speak to him. 1 am still waiting for the telephone call. 1 suppose the Minister said: 'It does not matter. He is only a back bencher. Why worry about him?' It is preposterous. It is time the- Government did something about this and made sure that Ministers realised that back benchers have a right to see Ministers. The Minister I wanted to see does not even know what I wanted to see him about, lt may be important to the Government; it may not be. lt does not matter what it is. Members of Parliament have a right to discuss matters with Ministers. 1 come to the third thing that is preposterous. I regret to say that in this case I have to become schizophrenic because I usually try not to mix my medical side with my political side. The preposterous demands by the General Practitioners Society has done so much harm to the medical profession that I feel it is time that 1 spoke against the Society's proposal to increase fees. I am a member of the Society. In fact, I am one of the founding members of the Society. Unfortunately this is the second occasion on which it has raised the question of fees in an absurd, irresponsible and preposterous manner without any due consideration for the people of Australia, and 1 point out here that I am not worried about the health scheme. I doubt whether any doctor would charge the fees which have been suggested by the Society. I raise this point because the Press in its hysteria today has said that these charges have been recommended by the Society. However, I point out that these charges have not been approved by the Society. The first impression that I want to correct is that these charges have been thought up by the executive of the General Practitioners Society and have not been approved by the Society itself. 
On a previous occasion I was fortunate to be present at a meeting when a similar wild and woolly scheme was proposed, and when it was put to the vote of all members we managed to defeat it. I hope to do the same thing again. I do nol propose to resign from the Society until after its meeting in a fortnight when I hope to be able to persuade the Society not to go on with this stupid and completely out of touch attitude in regard to medical fees. Then I shall resign from the Society because I think it has reached a stage at which it really does not know what it is doing. In fact, I am not sure that it: is not trying to sabotage the medical profession into being socialised. We founded the Society mainly because we objected strongly to the executive of the Australian Medical Association making decisions on matters which were never referred to its members. In the General Practitioners Society we agreed that any decision had to be carried by a vote of its members and a very good democratic system was evolved, but the executive has failed to regard this matter on a democratic basis. 
I queried the decision, having heard that it was to be announced. 1 rang  Dr Arnold  and said: 'We have not decided this matter. He said: 'We were asked to work out a scheme on this'. I said: 'You were asked to work out a scheme but it has not been approved by us members yet. I think you should say that in your broadcast'. I do not know whether he did, but from the tone of the Press reportage I fear that he did not say so because the Press has taken it that these are the fees to be charged. I completely disassociate myself from my own society in regard to these fees, as I am certain most doctors do. 
 Normally we do but we have not had a ballot on this. We had a secret ballot on another proposal a couple of years ago when the executive tried to introduce the same preposterous scale of fees which was something like four times the existing fees. The proposal was to charge something like $20 to see a patient at night. That horrifies any general practitioner and we managed to defeat it in a secret ballot. The present proposal has not been put to members of the Society. I am certain that if it is, it will be defeated.  1  felt that  I  had  to  mention this becauseI think that the Society has done irreparable harm to the medical profession by proposing these increases when they have not been approved by the Society as a whole. 
 Nearly 1,000 as far as I am aware.I see them only every year at the annual meeting. As the honourable senator knows, I have been away so I cannot tell him the exact number at pre- sent. 
 Mainly, but there are members from every State. It is now an Australia-wide organisation but basically the bulk of members come from New South Wales. We are all general practitioners and most general practitioners would not have a bar of these proposed charges.  I  am certain that even if they were approved by the Society not many doctors would make these charges. There has been enough talk about the medical profession and  its  avidity for financial increases. I do not blame anyone for wanting to increase their salary range. Everyone wants to do that. Nevertheless. I think that these people have overstepped the mark and have done irreparable damage to the medical profession. J felt I should say something to this effect, and I have done  so. 
 I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a series of questions. I hope that he will be able to help some of us unfortunate backbenchers. What are the rules and procedures to be adopted when a senator has a temerity to beg hopefully for an appointment with a Minister in another place? Do we nave to make our request in writing and is the minimum application period 2 months or less? How does a senator get near enough to lick Ministers' boots when craving an appointment? Should we approach these relatives of God by crawling on our stomachs, or would walking on our hands and knees be acceptable? Will the Leader of the Government help by opening a waiting list for senators wishing to interview Ministers in another place? 
How humiliated a person feels is a matter for his own judgment, I suppose. I can speak only as far as this House is concerned. 
But it is the other House that is involved. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIf the honourable senator puts a question to me. I am bound to respond to it. If this is to develop into a series of questions and answers, I suggest that the honourable senator is a doctor, not a lawyer, and that he should stick to being a senator. The fact is that if any honourable senator puts to me, or to any of my ministerial colleagues here, a question which relates to the portfolio of a Minister in another place we do all we possibly can to obtain quick responses. If any honourable senator wants an appointment with a Minister in another place, he should use the normal procedures of seeing that Minister's private secretary or staff and indicating that he wants to see the Minister. If he has some difficulty, I will be perfectly happy if he comes and speaks to me because I might be able to facilitate his interview. But I do not believe that the situation warrants the extravagant language used by  Senator Turnbull  in his question. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. In view of the fact that the National Health and Medical Research Council in October 1971 considered that there was inadequate evidence that group vaccination had had any significant influence on the incidence of influenza or in providing significant protection for the individual, and that the benefits of immunisation against influenza were doubtful, why has the Government not prevented its own organisation, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, from advertising suggestively to the contrary? 
That is a question which I would not presume to answer without notice. I will take it on notice and get a reply. 
I want to speak on this matter because I find that I am possibly the only honourable senator in this chamber who opposes the motion. I oppose it on 2 grounds. Firstly, it is a complete exercise in futility. 
All right. I am going to develop this theme in a minute. Secondly, it could have dangerous repercussions in other takeovers if the Government is going to interfere with every business takeover on behalf of anyone who feels hurt - especially somebody who has been nurtured in the bosom of the Government for years. The Government could say that it is going to have an investigation into the takeover of any firm. Those are the 2 main reasons for my opposition. I hope to- 

 - Senator Gair has not even heard my speech yet he is already interjecting. 
I was about to say that I hoped to expound on them. I think they are very good reasons why this is a futile exercise. Anyone who understands the stock exchange - I give way to honourable senators who serve on the Senate Select Committee on Security and Exchange - knows that if any party can obtain a block share of even IS per cent of a company, that party can go a long way towards dictating the policy of that company. On most occasions private subscribers do not send in their proxy. When one has 23 per cent of shares, one virtually owns that company. Therefore it can be said - excluding the matter of foreign ownership - that Ansett' has been virtually taken over by TNT already. To have an inquiry about what is going to happen in regard to takeovers seems to me to be completely futile. 
Of course we have been told by  Senator Gair  that the question of a monopoly arises. Just because 2 companies merge it does not mean that they are a monopoly. In this country a lot of pharmaceutical companies have merged but they did not become monopolies. Other pharmaceutical companies are still opposing them. Interstate Parcel Express Co., F. H. Stephens Pty Ltd, Mayne Nickless Ltd and Brambles Holdings Ltd still exist and they are prepared to exist alongside Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd and its absorbed company, Ansett Transport Industries. There is no question whatever of a monopoly. Therefore there is no harm to the Australian people in regard to a monopoly because no monopoly exists. If honourable senators want to talk in terms of a monopoly they should talk about the  2-airline  policy. That gives a monopoly. I now turn to the matter of foreign ownership which seems to be the real cause for this inquiry. Foreign ownership can only be a worrisome problem in regard to the Broadcasting and Television Act. I ask honourable senators not to tell me that the Government is not looking into the matter. Do not tell me that the Australian Broadcasting Commission or Ansett are not looking into it to make sure that TNT is not owned by more than  10  per cent of foreign interest. So everyone is looking into this matter and we are going to look into it further. 
Who? 
The palm? 
I am glad to hear  Senator Sim  say that people associated with the ABC and Ansett are prepared to be bribed. Is that what the honourable senator is implying? He referred to the palm. 
 Parliament! I thought the honourable senator said 'palm'. I beg his pardon. I withdraw my criticism of him. I could only hear one word. It just shows that I am getting old and deaf. When honourable senators have finished laughing I shall continue. Foreign ownership is the only thing that matters. It is being watched carefully by everyone concerned. Therefore, it is not a problem and it has nothing to do with the merger because the merger cannot take place if the foreign ownership in TNT exceeds the prescribed limit. The next thing about which we are told is that there will be unemployment. This was a completely erronous statement made by, I think,  Senator Gair,  because when these  2  companies merge they will grow. 
I probably will. The subject of unemployment was raised, whether directly or indirectly, lt is a quite erroneous suggestion. With the  2  companies merging there will be an even bigger company with bigger prospects  - more road transport and more employment than previously. Certain employees of Ansett have mentioned to me the likelihood of their being unemployed. I have pointed out to them that they will be better off when the takeover is confirmed. The unemployment bugbear is absolutely false. I would like to reply to  2  things which were mentioned and which I thought were irrelevant. One referred to a balance sheet in Japanese. Let us face facts. Has the Government done anything to stop balance sheets being published in Japanese? The Japanese are certainly taking over many of our industries. Because a world company has a balance sheet in Japanese does not mean to say that it is Japanese owned. 
 I did not say that you did not. 
 No, I am not. I am just pointing this out. 
If I am  out of  practice, I am getting back into it very rapidly. 
 Not very successfully according to the honourable senator when I point out his foibles. He also did something which I thought was rather unworthy of him when he read a telegram - I still do not know the name of the author - which stated that TNT is borrowing on short-term, which it probably is. Large companies often .borrow on short term. Even small companies and house owners borrow on short term to carry them over. I cannot remember the second part of the telegram, but it inferred that things were not too good with TNT. 
 Yes, it was a subject for investigation, but let us know who sent the telegram. No name is mentioned. It may have been sent by  Sir Reginald  Ansett. We do not know who sent that telegram. The next matter raised was whether anything will happen to the Government loans in Ansett when  TNT  takes over. Of course not. That was another objection that was raised. 
 How is Ansett repaying them? TNT is much more financial than Ansett and can easily repay the loans. 
 It will take over all the activities of Ansett, debts and all. A company cannot take over another company and say: 'The debts do not belong to us'. Of course, the debts belong to the company that is taking over. Anyhow, the Government will ensure that its contracts are upheld. To raise all these matters - unemployment, financial instability and Government loans - is to try to put to the public that TNT is not a good company to take over Ansett. 
It was stated that transport is important in a national emergency. Of course it is important in a national emergency. Do we need a standing committee to tell us that? Does it matter whether TNT takes over Ansett? TNT will be just as reliable and just as Australian as Ansett is at the moment. So there should be no interference. Reference was made to a gobbling-up operation. There would have been no gobbling up - this is my opinion - if  Sir Reginald,  Ansett had not been so arrogant in the first place. It was obvious, from the first purchase by TNT onwards, that it should have a say on the board of Ansett. One would have thought that Ansett would have offered TNT a position on the board and said: 'Come and join us and we will make the venture a success'. I think there are a lot of personalities involved in this. Because TNT was not invited to join the board it decided to go further and to take over Ansett completely. That is only my personal thought on the matter. There is no doubt that TNT is a very large company which has very lively interests and which is giving a high return on its investment. Ansett has been nurtured in the bosom of the Government and has been prepared to sit there knowing that it can thumb its nose at the Government because the Government cannot do anything about it. This favoured son of the Government is now squealing. So we all join in to try to give him a let-out. 

 Senator Cotton made 4 points to which I wish to reply. He more or less inferred that now that he is Minister for Civil Aviaion he has instituted innovations. We have been at the Government for 5 or 10 years to depart from the system of parallel scheduling. I can remember the first argument with  Senator Cotton  2i  years ago over both companies having aircraft leaving at the same time. I know that consideration of the matter has been continuing for the past fortnight or a little longer. 
All right. Consideration of the matter has been continuing for 5 years as far as the Government is concerned. For 5 years it has been continuing and nothing has happened. Suddenly something is happening as a result of the attempted takeover.  Sir Reginald  Ansett said that it is impossible to depart from the practice of parallel scheduling. What do honourable senators 'think will happen? Will the Department of Civil Aviation suggest different scheduling?  Sir Reginald  Ansett will say: 'This does not suit us'. To be fair to Ansett, I know that on one occasion it did alter its timetable, but Trans-Australia Airlines immediately altered its timetable to fall in line with Ansett's. They can do anything they like with the timetable and nothing is done by the Government. 
Schedule airlines are given the concession of lack of competition on the basis that they keep to their schedules unless by some accident they cannot fly the scheduled aircraft. But this is not so with the 2 airlines at the moment. If it suits them, if they have not a full load, they will change aircraft. Honourable senators will know that time and time again, when they expect a DC9, a Friendship is used or the service does not operate at all. The Minister and his Department allow this to continue, with impunity, year after year. Cases have been brought to the Minister's notice. There is always an excuse. When one books 10 days ahead the airlines say that the particular aircraft is not operational. That shows how wonderful the companies are. Five to ten days ahead they know that the aircraft will not be operational. All these things are attributable to the 2-airline policy. We did not hear about concession fares until TNT suggested it. 
 It is not relevant, but I have had to listen to things which were not relevant. It was mentioned by the Minister. I presume it was irrelevant then and I propose to keep on being irrelevant. Only today or yesterday we were told by  Sir Reginald  Ansett that concession fares are an impossibility, but the Department will fix it. 
 There have been group concession fares for years. The matter of separate accounts was raised. There should have been separate accounts years ago. An airline company and a road company should not have been allowed to run a television station and not have separate accounts. Suddenly, because TNT says that it will have separate accounts, Ansett says that it will do that. I do not want to dwell at great length on the subject of the 2-airline policy. It seems to me that the time has arrived when the Government should look at a 3-airline policy. There was a time when Ansett operated a third airline and did not object to it. I have no sympathy with Ansett in regard to this takeover. Did he ever think of Butler when he look over Butler Air Transport? Did the Government step in then? It did not give any help on that occasion. Today this man sees his empire going. I give him credit for what he did in building it up, although he was lucky in having an incompetent manager of Australian National Airways Pty Ltd when  Sir Ivan  Holyman died and his son took over. That is when Ansett came into it. Nevertheless, he did build up this empire. 
Ansett now is saying: 'How can road transport people know anything about the aircraft industry?' I would like to know what Ansett knows about the television industry. There was a time when he was only a road transport operator. He was not an air transport operator. How did he know about air transport? It seems to me that practically all these arguments thai are advanced as to why we must have an inquiry are irrelevant. It boils down to the fact that this is a simple company takeover. There have been bigger takeovers, although perhaps not in Australia. But if we are to investigate any takeover when the person being taken over starts to squeal, I do not know where we will finish. I am surprised that the Liberal Party is supporting an inquiry into this matter. I know that, the Liberal Party is supporting the proposal because the numbers are against it so it may as well put on a good face. The Government is looking into the question of foreign investment, yet ii is prepared to allow a select committee of the Senate, which it never used to allow to investigate anything the Government was investigating, look into this matter. 
 He can look after himself. 
 This is just nonsensical. The honourable senator is getting really childish in his old age. I thought I was getting old and deaf but the honourable senator is becoming childish. Gordon Barton certainly was associated with me in the Australia Party. 
 No, because I did not believe in the Party's policy in regard to defence. That is why. 
 That is a typical insinuation. Why does not the honourable senator go outside the Parliament and make these insinuations. He said that I was a strain on the purse but Gordon Barton never contributed to my finances. 
 How many honourable senators of the Australian Democratic Labor Party have been able to enter Parliament without financial help? 
 It may have. We are now reaching a pretty childish state of affairs with  Senator Gair's  interjections. For the reasons I have stated I feel that this motion is completely futile. The takeover is virtually an accomplished fact. If the foreign ownership problem is solved then the sending of this matter for inquiry to a select committee which already has enough to do is a waste of time. 
J would like to ask the Minister for Health a question concerning children at risk in poisoning cases, is he aware that children between the age of 1 and 5 years are those most at risk from accidental poisoning? Is he aware that in 1970 in this age group 3,578 cases of poisoning were reported out of a total of 8,191? I am sure that the Minister is aware that I have for 4 years tried to get his Department to do something about this In regard to safety containers. Honourable senators will remember that I circulated these containers among senators to see whether they could open them and about one-third of them could not. I have asked the Minister 2 questions already. I also ask him whether he has read his Department's journal. If so, has he seen that after 4 years enlightenment has struck his Department which now says that safety containers in themselves are not sufficient, nor is any one yet designed thoroughly satisfactorily but they certainly play a part in helping to protect young children? When the hell is the Minister's Department going to protect these young children? This is the question I ask the Minister. 
I would like to continue my series of questions directed to the Minister for Health dealing with safety containers. Yesterday, in reply to my question, he said that the Commonwealth was continuing to examine this matter in the light of it being a very real problem. Today I ask him: Firstly, does not he think that 4 years is a long time for a continuing programme on a very serious problem? Secondly, does not the Department of Health employ a permanent head on a salary of $22,000 a year who should be able to think in 4 years of some solution to to this problem? If he cannot do so may I, without any charge to the Government provide the solution in the form of a question seeing that this is question time? Is there any reason why the problem cannot be solved tomorrow by the Minister for Health by altering the regulation under the National Health Act and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act to make it compulsory for all tablets to be dispensed in safety containers? 
I gave an answer to this question yesterday but now, the honourable senator has tended to move away from that question. What the honourable senator asked me yesterday was, in fact, based on something he read from a Department of Health journal. I would like to provide a considered reply to his question. 
1 ask the Minister for Health another question in my continuing series of questions about the accidental poisoning of children due to the use of unsafe containers for tablets. After 4 years of questioning has his Department a solution? 
My Department has been examining ways and means of reducing the risk related to careless storage in the home. I was not Minister for Health in late 1970 but I understand that through the agencies of the National Health and Medical Research Council a special communication was sent to all pharmacists commending to them certain action in relation to this risk and in relation to the use of safety containers. The container, Palm-N'-Turn, which  Senator Turnbull  brought into the chamber does have deficiencies. It has been found that even children in the age group at risk - I to 5 years - have been able to open it, often in a very short period. For tablets other than short shelf-life tablets the container does not provide a satisfactory method of preventing degeneration of the drugs due to the atmospheric conditions. While safety containers have some deficiencies in relation to drug stability, durability, ease of handling and labelling, my Department is currently examining two new types of containers which have been developed recently. In addition, alternate forms of packaging, such as tablets packaged in foil strips, are being examined. AH drugs currently causing a risk problem are being examined in this context. Foil packaging may have an advantage in terms of time taken to break the tablets off the strip and remove the foil. That may guard against the careless use by children, particularly in the 1 to 5 age group. I hope that at an early date there will be further development in relation to the problem. Let us face facts: It is a very real problem in any home into which drugs are taken and in which there are children. 

 - Mr President, I ask you a question about our temporary parliament house, our more temporary parliament house and the most temporary parliament house that is about to be built. I have just been uprooted from my temporary parliamentary room and moved to the more temporary one. 1 find that [ cannot open the window. That would be all right, if I could control the air conditioning, but there is no control for the air conditioning. 
That is quite true. Then I find that somebody has decreed that the temperature in the room shall be 70 degrees. 
Apart. from Queenslanders, the norm is 68 degrees. That is the usually accepted temperature for air conditioning. I find my room extremely hot. What can I do about it? 
I have been informed that I could wear shorts, but I understand that you,  Mr President,  made a ruling on that. My final complaint is this: I have heard rumours that most temporary accommodation is to be erected. Why cannot the Government get on with the job of building the new parliament house? lt does not matter when the Government decides to do it, there will be opposition.  Mr President,  could you persuade the Government to take its courage in its hands and say that tomorrow it will start building the new parliament house instead of wasting the taxpayers' money? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the persistent rumours of cronyism concerning the 
Government's purchase of 6 DC3 aircraft from the Jet-Air company, would the Minister be prepared to place on the table of the Senate all relevant documents and relevant extracts from memoranda concerning the necessity for purchasing civilian configuration DC3 aircraft and the necessity for purchasing these aircraft from the Jet-Air company? In view of the request from Cambodia for aircraft with military configuration, why did the Government purchase civilian configuration aircraft from the Jet-Air company instead of using its own excess Royal Australian Air Force military configuration aircraft? Finally, have the planes given to Laos and Nepal been delivered yet? 
I would like to add a few words to the discussion,  Mr President.  I support your remarks, even though they will kill the presentation by me of my maiden petition. I have just received my first petition in 10 years. Nevertheless one must ask in all seriousness what is the purpose of the presentation of petitions. The one I have to present to tha Senate was left in my room without any covering note - it was just left there. I gave it to the  Clerk  and he. certified it. Not one of the petitioners comes from Tasmania. Apparently people go round with these petitions and distribute them to various honourable senators. 
I know that. I am trying to point out that problems are involved in the presentation of petitions. No address is given for at least 5 of the petitioners who have signed my petition and another 6 just say Caulfield or Frankston. So they would not be easy to trace. The whole purpose of the presentation of petitions appears to me to -be completely futile unless they are referred for investigation to, say, the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare if they involve social service matters or to another standing committee if they involve other matters. I was proposing to seek to have my petition referred to a standing committee.  Mr President,  would it not be better if the. Standing Orders Committee were to investigate this matter and report back to the Senate with a suggestion which is suitable to all honourable senators, including the Independent senators? I think it would. 
I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the petition relating to social services presented to the Senate by  Senator Turnbull  this day be referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Supply: What was the price paid to the Department of Supply for the recent purchase of a surplus DC3 aircraft? To whom was the aircraft sold? 
I have a question to ask of the Attorney-General. I refer to an incident on 23 rd December at the Prime Minister's Lodge. In view of the increasingly mysterious answers being given to this matter will the AttorneyGeneral scotch for all time the rumours which arc very persistent in Canberra that guests at the Prime Minister's Lodge that evening or that night were responsible for the firing of the gun? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Further to my inquiries concerning the purchase of aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd, would the Minister inform me as to the following: To which countries did the Government offer DC3s as gifts, or did certain countries request these planes? What were the countries involved? On what dates were the offers made or requested? What was the specific offer or request in each case? On what dates were the planes delivered? 
I am here enough. 
No. I gave it up a long time before you were Government Whip. 
I did not mention you. 
No, we are strictly independent, but I am solid in my Party about this matter. I have found in the 10 years that I have been here that to jet a good slot on a broadcasting night is impossible. I am asked to speak when someone is wanted to fill in at 10.30 p.m., when it is a complete waste of time. Quite often a member would prefer to speak on a nonbroadcasting day when he has a lot to say. He knows that then he has longer than half an hour. If senators are to reduce our time to half an hour on non-broadcasting days they must also reduce the times on the other day unless, of course, the  Deputy President  will give another assurance that independent senators will always have the call when they rise and will not be told what to do by the 2 Party Whips. 
Having gained a point through the last motion that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson moved I hope I may get another victory when I finish my speech tonight. I am opposing this motion because it would take me more than half an hour to castigate the Government, the Minister and the Department of Health for their supine attitudes to smoking. Therefore I feel that I am entitled to have more than half an hour. I would be prepared to go along with the half an hour proposition if broadcasting time speeches were reduced to 20 minutes. I say that because we in this corner never get a chance to speak on broadcasting days at reasonable times. We are very often offered a slot on Wednesdays, but it is usually for 10.30 pm. 
No, I wish to make a suggestion. I think that 2 hours is quite long enough for an urgency motion.  Senator Cavanagh  is interjecting again. If he wants to put his thoughts later, I will let him do that. The Whip goes around looking for people to speak solely because his party does not want a vote to be taken on the matter. He keeps getting senators to speak in order to fill in time so that the time allotted for the urgency motion will expire. There is no reason why the speeches should not stop once the matter has been placed before the Senate and a vote then be taken. Usually the Government does not want a vote taken on the matter. Therefore it asks senators, even independent senators, to speak on it. That is the only time we are asked whether we want to speak. I think it is absurd that we do not get a chance to speak, especially when the matter is a technical one. I feel that I have a right to speak on a health matter, if I wish to do so, but I have never been given the opportunity- 
I have a right to speak, but I cannot get my name on the list of speakers. Only 8 speakers are listed. The Government Whip says: 'We have 4 from the Government side' and the Opposition Whip says: 'We have 4 from the Opposition side. We cannot give you one of our places'. Firstly they want to know which side we will support. Then we have to argue with the Whip for that side to see whether we can get our names on the list. Invariably the answer is: 'We already have our speakers who have swotted up on the subject, and they want to speak'. That excludes us from speaking on sometimes important matters. I think the practice should be stopped. If a matter is said to be a non-party matter, then let it be a nonparty matter and let the independent senators have a chance to speak when they wish to do so. It is not often that they wish to speak, but when there are special subjects on which they feel they have a right to speak, they should be entitled to speak. 
I suggest that 10 minutes is ample time for the seconder of the motion to speak. After the initial  speaker  from each side has completed his speech there is repetition from the Labor side and from the Liberal side because the following speakers merely repeat what the initial  speaker  for each side has said. The independent senators are still denied the right to speak. I maintain that this practice should cease and that the Chair- 
The Chair should make sure that they get the chance. It is the duty of the Chair to make sure that people who wish to speak have their chance and are not prevented by the Whips from speaking. That is the only reason I wanted to speak tonight. I think that 2 hours is long enough to debate a matter of urgency. I do not think  Senator Murphy  quite supported that contention because he said that if the motion were passed, the time for debating a matter of urgency would be reduced and the Senate would be able to deal with more business, which would mean that more matters of urgency could be raised. More matters of urgency will be raised, so more time will be wasted. The time for debate will be cut short so that more matters can be raised with the result that less time will be spent on government business. However, I feel that 2 hours is ample time to debate a matter of urgency. I put it to you,  Mr Deputy President,  and to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  that when a technical matter or a special matter is raised on which the independent senators and the Democratic Labor Party senators wish to speak, they have the same rights as have other senators. I hope that my speech bears fruit. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! I interpose at this stage because there seems to be misapprehension on the part of  Senator Turnbull  about the role of and arrangements made between the Whips. While the arrangements have been accepted by the Chair as a way of ensuring an orderly debate, I assure the honourable senator that if one of the inde pendent senators whose name was not on the list rose to speak, the Chair would give consideration to calling him. 
I hope that we can discuss this matter without emotion. I am not emotionally involved in it. I have taken an interest in it by the accident of watching a television programme this evening in which I saw a young man apprehended. I am not quite sure of the legal difference between the terms 'apprehended' and 'arrested'. 1 saw a young man, who appeared to be arrested, between 2 very burly policemen. He was pushed to a car protesting that he was not the man whom they were seeking. Because of that my hackles rose at the thought that this could happen in Australia. I addressed myself to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  and asked him whether it would be possible for him to make a statement. He has done so. But I have found that his statement is at variance with the statement which he issued at 6.30 tonight. Let it be made quite clear - before the people in the John Birch Society and the people on the far right start accusing me of being one of these people - that I believe in national service. I believe that anyone who breaks the law of the land should be prosecuted. I say to honourable senators: Do not try to say that I am one of the rabble, a Communist and so on because I am trying to support a man who, it appeared to me. was unjustly arrested. 
All right. 1 do not want to become involved in the whole question of draft resisting. 1 am not interested in that. I am interested in one thing and that is what happened to this man today. He was a university stunt. It was part of a practical joke. 
To the rest of the world it would be funny - except to certain people. It is quite common in universities to impersonate people. It is obvious that this was an impersonation as a practical joke to fool the police. 
All right. Let us say it was a dangerous practical joke which misfired. But let me point out that according to the Attorney-General's statement issued at 6.30, subsequently this person was introduced to Inspector Headland of the Commonwealth Police. This is the person w:,o called himself Wood. On speaking to Headland this person said he was not Wood but Shanley. So it had already been established that he was not Wood. The Press release by the AttorneyGeneral states: 
Headland and  Shanley  left Parliament House and moved across the road where  Shanley  was apprehended by  2  Commonwealth policemen. 
I am not quite sure what 'apprehended' means. I am being serious about this. Does it mean arrested or virtually arrested? 
To the uninitiated and ignorant like myself, I assumed that he had been arrested if he were apprehended. We were told that this man was not arrested, yet in the statement it says that he was apprehended. I want to know why he was apprehended at that time. By then he had said that he was not Wood; that he was another person. Therefore he was not the person sought by the police. I admit that perhaps Inspector Headland became confused and did not know which story to believe. 
But was there any need to arrest him? Is any person who says his name is Anderson or Greenwood to be arrested because he says that? Is there anything illegal in that? I would like to ask the Attorney-General whether a person impersonating another person is liable to arrest. This is a breach of civil liberties. I am not supporting the man or saying that he was right or wrong. The tuan said: I am not Wood'. He might even have apologised; I do not know. Nobody seems to know. He went across the road, and the police knew he was not Wood. 
He then said he was not. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Turnbull  has the call and he will address the Chair. 
I am now asked: Why did he not produce proof of identity? I do not know. Surely it was up to the policemen to ask him to produce proof of identity. Did the policemen ask him? So many questions are left unanswered in the statement that we do not know the full story at all. 
I am not judging it. I am just telling the Senate what I saw on television. If the honourable senator wants to get emotionally involved, he will be running true to character. To him, anyone who is a draft resister or supports a draft resister is a communist, or virtually a communist. The statement issued at 6.30 p.m. states: 
Inspector Headland asked Shanley to go back to Police Headquarters to be interviewed as to his part in the affair. Shanley agreed and was then driven away. 
I do not know whether any other senators saw the television programme. He was protesting, it seemed to me. It was not that he agreed to be driven away. He was taken to the car and virtually pushed into it. One policeman muttered something about the camera, and put his back to it so that what happened to Shanley as he entered the car could not be seen. I do not know whether he was forcibly pushed into the car or not. 
There are certain civil liberties that should prevail. I would like the Attorney-General to tell the Senate what is the truth. It was obvious that the young man was protesting as he was being led to the car and entering the car. He was saying 'I am not the man you want' and other people were saying 'He is not Wood*. He had already told Inspector Headland this. Why did Headland let the 2 policemen apprehend him before asking for proof of identity? Why not say to him: You have said you are one man, and now you say you are another. Please prove who you are'? His friends called out: 'He is not Wood'. 
I do not want to get into any involvements. The police have their duty to perform. From a reading of this statement, Shanley's story that he wanted to go and be interviewed by the police is apparently correct, but I believe that he has denied it since, according to the second statement. Why does the Attorney-General want to believe him in one part and not believe him in another? The Attorney-General ended up by saying that this was a plot to discredit the Commonwealth Police. He is joking, of course. I do not know who is to blame, but the Attorney-General's Department must take some of the blame for the fact that the Commonwealth Police are being discredited. I do not support at all the incident on the campus of the University of New South Wales, but that incident showed the police to be powerless. There were pictures of the police happily joking away as if they were glad to know that the man had escaped. 
Yes. To say that this person intended to discredit the role of the Commonwealth Police is, I think, carrying it a bit far. If a man has committed an offence he should be arrested. But did this man Shanley commit an offence? The Attorney-General has not mentioned that. I think it is the key to the whole thing. If he committed an offence and should have been apprehended, I cannot argue any further. If he did not commit an offence, what right did the police have to apprehend him? This is all I want to know - not that he dissents, burns his card or refuses national service. It is just a question of the civil liberty of any man when a practical joke goes wrong and he is apprehended. Will this sort of thing happen in future? Will anyone who has a crack at the police or has a joke at the expense of the police be apprehended? I raise this matter because I believe that an injustice has been done to this man Shanley. The AttorneyGeneral very kindly said that this man can prosecute the police. Why should a citizen have to do that? 
In what way is he a criminal? 
He did not say he was a criminal. 
In what statement is it said that Shanley said he was a criminal? The Attorney-General by his silence has intimated that no crime had been committed. Every day, when a senator wants some information it is usually given by way of interjection, and there is no reason why that procedure should not be followed now. We have another example of bureaucracy. According to the AttorneyGeneral, if this man feels that a wrong has been done to him, he can seek redress by going to court. Has the Attorney-General thought what this would cost him - the time, the trouble? Why should any citizen have to do this? It is completely wrong. It is a wrong attitude for the Department to adopt, that people should have to defend themselves and that they are guilty even before they are tried. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. In view of the conflicting reports about the number of draft resisters, about which there seems to be some confusion, would the AttorneyGeneral settle this matter once and for all by informing us as to the correct number of draft resisters and the number for whom warrants have been issued? At the same time, could he inform us of the number of youths who have failed to attend medical examinations and the number for whom warrants have been issued for such failure? 
I want to raise a matter which disturbs me greatly.I refer to an apparent totalitarian trend which seems to be appearing in Australia and which may well be a backlash to the problems of demonstrations. Although it may be said that the example I am about to give is no business of mine or of this Parliament, nevertheless I believe this matter is of vital importance. It is almost unbelievable that it could have occurred and that such a trend is developing in Australia. I refer to the refusal of a police board to allow a former polceman,  Mr Arantz,  to rejoin the New South Wales Police Force. It is significant to me, and I hope to every decent Australian - I believe every decent Australian will support me in my view - that the individual apparently is not allowed to confront the establishment. We have seen this in politics, of course, in the case of an ex-Prime Minister. Apparently this occurs on every occasion on which anyone wishes to confront the establishment. 
No-one will deny that  Mr Arantz  was torn between the necessity to abide by the regulations of the Public Service, which forbade him to make the truth public, and his conscience, which demanded that the truth will be disclosed. When, then, should a public servant speak out? That is a particular problem and one that I think this Parliament should resolve at another time.  Mr Arantz  should have first taken up with the New South Wales Commissioner of Police the matter of the deceitful crime figures, and only if the Commissioner maintained his untruthfulness should  Mr Arantz  have made the information public in the public interest. It is obvious that the Police Commissioner, on the figures available, was deveiving the public. For political purposes he was aided, whether unwittingly or otherwise, by the Premier of New South Wales. 
I think that most people agree that public servants should have the right to speak out when those in authority knowingly decieve the public. Who now would not believe that the publication of the Pentagon Papers was not in the public interest? Anyone who has been in the United States of America will know that the consensus of opinion there is that they should have been made known. We in Australia had an incident in which a Prime Minister and a Minister both lied to this Parliament and the public. This so infuriated a public servant as to compel him to make the truth known to me. I refer to what has become known as the VIP affair. Everyone knows what happened in that case. 
There can be no question that  Mr Arantz  should have been subject to some disciplinary action but he certainly should not have been dismissed from the Police Force. That was a callous and inhuman decision. Obviously he had no chance of succeeding in his appeal to a board which consisted of a judge appointed by the Premier and 2 police officers subordinate to the Commissioner of Police. If the Board had upheld  Mr Arantz's  appeal it would have indicted the Premier and the Commissioner of Police. What horrifies me is this: Firstly, this man's career was ruined because he told the truth. It is unbelievable that this could happen in Australia. Secondly, no justice has been meted out to those who tried to deceive us. In fact the Commissioner of Police was given the golden handshake. Admittedly, many people believe that he was dismissed but he was dismissed in such a way that he retained all his credits. 
This is indeed a sad commentary on our political scene. More horrifying still, in my opinion, is that an Australian can be forced to undergo not just a psychiatric examination as such, but a psychiatric examination by a doctor appointed by his accuser. What was the reason for making him undergo a psychiatric examination? Obviously the Commissioner of Police realised that he was in the wrong and so he tried to destroy the credibility of his antagonist. All honourable senators know that once a person is referred to a psychiatrist there is a stigma, whether we like it or not, and an implication that there is something peculiar about that person. If all of us went to a psychiatrist, including myself, there is not one of us who could not be labelled with having one or other psychiatric illness. In my opinion the New South Wales Medical Board should deregister the police doctor concerned in this case who so willingly tried to please his superiors by declaring that  Mr Arantz  was a psychiatric case. Fortunately for  Mr Arantz.  he was taken to other doctors who decided that he was not a psychiatric case. 
Have we not protested about similar cases that occur in Russia? Do we not hold demonstrations about these sort of things? Are we not appalled by similar things in other countries? Well, why do we allow them to occur in Australia? That is why I raised this matter this evening. I want to alert Australians to the fact that it. can happen here and is happening here; to alert them to the fact that we are heading for a totalitarian state. One only has to recall the fact that police are assisting a Nazi group in their future brutalities. Not one of the members of this Senate, or the other place, who usually become hysterical about matters concerning law and order, has spoken against this assistance being given by police. I may well ask the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  what he has done about it because it could be that the Commonwealth Police are involved. I do not know which police force was involved. If it was not the Commonwealth police then the Attorney-General is left out of the matter. It was not clear to me from the discussion the other night whether it was the Commonwealth police or State police who were involved. 
Finally, in all sincerity, I ask the AttorneyGeneral to try to do something for this conscientious and very intelligent police officer who has been robbed of his livelihood. I suggest that he employ him in the Commonwealth Police Force. The AttorneyGeneral could do this. It would show that Australia has some sense of decency when dealing with its own people. 
1 apologise for speaking again on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate but if honourable senators want to blame anyone they should blame the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  and Ministers who refuse to answer questions. T am getting sick and tired of asking questions in this chamber and having them evaded by Ministers. It is extremely difficult under our system of conducting question time to ask supplementary questions in order to try to prise out of a Minister the answers that one requires. I am referring not only to the Attorney-General because any Minister who does not want to answer a question just waffles on and leaves one in the position of having to seek further information. Today, I must admit, I got into a bit of strife trying to clear up a question that I asked the Attorney-General yesterday. He failed to answer the vital part of my question. In order to get an answer I got involved in a long garrulous speech. But this is the point: He did not bother trying to answer the question that he failed to answer on the previous occasion. 
In this chamber in the last few weeks we have heard 2 arguments on the question of draft resisters. The Opposition side has said that warrants against draft resisters have been issued on a selective basis. The Attorney-General has said that this is not true. I wanted to find out who was telling the truth. Either the Attorney-General was telling the truth or he was lying. 
I ask the Attorney-General a question.  Mr President,  I am afraid that I must ask you to bear with me in this because it is quite a lengthy question. Yesterday I asked a question seeking the correct number of draft resisters, the number for whom warrants had been issued, the number who had failed to attend medical examinations as well as the number for whom warrants had been issued for such failure. I am not interested in the polemics of the situation between the Opposition and the Government I am interested in the facts. In his most verbose reply, the Attorney-General stated that there were 695,000 registered and that 14,000 of those required to register had not registered; of those required to register, 2 per cent or 14,000 had failed to register but there were probably more. In regard to medical examinations, he stated that the number required to attend for this purpose was 147.000 and that 441 had failed to attend for this purpose. The Attorney-General concluded, after giving a lot of detail that I did not ask for, by saying: 
In fuel, at the end of April there were 20 warrants outstanding for persons who had failed to appear in court to answer a summons either for failing to attend a medical examination or for failing to obey a call-up notice. 
In that group, according to the AttorneyGeneral's figures, there are 14,441- 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Is it possible for him to inform the Parliament of the cost or estimated cost of the following: Firstly, the completed extension to the eastern or House of Representatives side of Parliament House; secondly, the completed western or Senate extension; thirdly, the further western extension now being built; and, fourthly, the further contemplated extension to the eastern side? 
 I am going to oppose the motion on the grounds that we have a report which has come here- 
I would like to get things clear. I am a mere doctor, not a lawyer. I understand  that the Senate voted to remove these sections from the ordinance on a previous occasion. 
If the position is confusing to an ordinary medical  practititioner,  how much more confusing must it be to other people when we have these interjections going on in the chamber? I am not certain, but I have a faint idea that I voted for the removal of the sections, but since then I have been asked by a member of the Bar Association to support the ordinance. It seems strange that the Bar Association would want the ordinance  suported  if it felt that the ordinance was detrimental to it. The section says that a practitioner can be either one of 3 things - the triangular concept to which  Senator Murphy  referred. It does give the choice of being both a solicitor and a barrister if one wants to. 
The position is the same in the medical profession. A doctor can be a physician, a surgeon or both. I am trying to compare the position in the legal profession with the position in the medical profession where there can be exactly the same system. 
That is true. Surely the section that should be altered is the one dealing with the practising certificate. 
I do not follow. It seems rather peculiar to move to delete clauses 10 and 11 if one believes that there should be the 3 types of lawyers. Why should clause 10 be deleted? Why not leave that and delete 11? 
I think I am becoming more confused than ever. There does not seem to be any reason why we cannot have the 3 positions. In Australia we cannot get the sharp differentiation that there is in the more populated countries. Certainly so far as the medical profession is concerned, a doctor can be a physician and surgeon because in country areas he has to do both jobs. There is no doubt about that. This would apply to other areas in Australia. It may be argued that that does not apply to the Australian Capital Territory. 
I do not think it is. I think clause 10 should be left in. I think clause 1 1 should be argued separately. Surely the Law Council must have given an indication of what it wants. I assume that the Law Council would be representative of all lawyers. Could somebody tell us what the Law Council wants in this matter? 
1 have  a  couple of comments to make from a slightly different approach to this matter. I could not agree more with the proposition that probably conciliation commissioners should have a salary of $16,000 a year. After all, they have a lot of responsibility and a salary of $16,000 in an inflationary period does not mean anything. But I cannot go along with the absolute hypocrisy of the Government in introducing this proposal at this time. Just think of the nerve of honourable senators in the Liberal Party in supporting this clause when they were the people who said a few months ago that this sort of action should not take place. But, of course, they were talking with their tongues in their cheeks. We lack leadership. The only leadership we have is motivated by selfinterest. When parliamentary salaries were being considered, we were told by the leaders of the country that salary increases must be kept down to prevent inflation, but that this did not apply to ministerial salaries. That was the greatest hypocrisy of all time. I am not talking in a fit of pique either. I think conciliation commissioners should receive a salary of $16,000, but noone has explained why the proposed increase should be retrospective. 
I was away, but I can read.  Senator Hannan, Senator O'Byrne  and I had very interesting discussions on the matter in New York. We now find that not only is the salary of a commissioner going up to $16,000 against the Government's own plans, but the increase will be retrospective to last November. I believe that the salary should go up to $16,000, but I do not believe that it should go up yet. If it is a bad time for people in the Public Service and members of Parliament to have their salaries increased, I suggest that we postpone consideration of clause 12 until after we have dealt with clause 57 and altered it by making the commencing date for the new salary 1st March 1973. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that the National Health and Medical Research Council, in October 1971, considered that there was inadequate evidence that group vaccination has had any significant influence on the incidence in influenza or significant protection on the individual, and that the benefits from immunisation against influenza are doubtful, why has the Government not prevented its own organisation, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, from advertising suggestively to the contrary. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The views of the National Health and Medical Research Council as expressed at its SeventyThird Session in October 1971 were largely con cerned with the value of organised and officially sponsored mass vaccination programmes against influenza. 
Although Council considered that the benefits to be derived from such programmes are doubtful, it was of the opinion that the vaccination of certain 'special-risk' groups as a routine procedure each year is probably justified, as there is no currently available alternative procedure. 
The 'special-risk' groups referred to by the Council are - 
persons with rheumatic heart disease and/or congestive cardiac failure, chronic bronchitis, emphysema, chronic asthma, chronic hypostatic pulmonary congestion, chronic interstitial pulmonary fibrosis or mucoviscidosis; 
persons with other serious chronic debilitating diseases; and 
all other persons aged 65 years and over'. 1 am informed that the indications for the use of influenza vaccine as listed by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in recent advertising literature include certain groups which, in general, equate with the priority groups enumerated in the Council recommendation on this subject. I understand that the literature from the Commonwealth Serum Laboratores also lists some other limited groups, which may reflect the diversity of medical opinion on this particular matter. 
The recently issued Commonwealth Serum Laboratories pamphlet 'Flu 72' does not recommend mass influenza vaccination of the Australian community. 
 The report we are discussing today is now 15 months old. I said by interjection that it is 18 months old but I have since discovered that it is 15 months old. One wonders about the purpose of even debating it. So very little of the contents and recommendations of the report has been implemented that one wonders whether the Government has any intention of implementing anything in it. The report was prepared by 8 senators of whom 5 are on the Liberal-, side - Senators Marriott, Branson, Dame Nancy Buttfield, McManus and Maunsell. Even with a majority of Liberals on the Committee, no weight at all has been given to its report. 
I think it is important to differentiate between drugs and medicaments - or perhaps 'medicines' is an easier word. When people today talk about drugs they seem to be concentrating on illegal drugs. There should be a strict differentiation from legal drugs. The illegal drugs are in an absolute minority but when people talk about drugs and. drug taking they get confused. It is said : that people are taking too many drugs but many drugs will not hurt you at all.  I  think we should make it very clear whether we are talking about drugs that are taken illegally or about medicines. 
The report mentions, but does not stress enough, that drug taking is an illness. I cannot stress too much that the imposition of legal penalties on people who are drug addicts should cease forthwith. The proposed scheme to supply drug addicts with drugs is a good one and should be carried out. These people need drugs to survive. We hope that eventually they will get over their drug addiction. If they cannot get over it, at least they should not be subject to extra pressure to survive in trying to obtain the drugs. They are turned into criminals and thus criminal activity is created. I ask the Senate to take note of the fact that drug taking is an illness and should not be penalised at all. Treatment is the essence of any drug taking problem. 
In Tasmania we were the first to take attempted suicide out of the criminal code, or whatever it is called. In former times people who attempted suicide were prosecuted. Tasmania was the first State to abolish that procedure. After all, people who attempt suicide need help, and so do drug addicts. They need more help than anyone. To penalise them and put them into prisons cannot do the slightest good. It will not help them one iota. It is just so much nonsense. The main thing that worries me now is that penalties have been suggested but nothing has been done. I do not know whose fault it is but surely the Commonwealth and the States should have meetings of Ministers for Health. Meetings of Attorneys-General are held. Between them they should be able to come up with something on this vital question of penalties. 
The role of the drug pusher has not been stressed. I believe that any person who sells drugs illegally should be given life imprisonment. That is the first thing we should stress. We are too wishy-washy in imposing penalties on drug pushers. I am not referring to marihuana. I will deal with the latter in my speech. I am referring to the pushing of the more severe drugs, especially heroin, cocaine and LSD. In my opinion pushers of those drugs should be given life imprisonment without any right to parole. Unless drastic action is taken more people will be selling them. 
The present penalities are so mild that even a poor old pensioner who is caught taking something from a supermarket receives a greater penalty than a drug pusher. What action has been taken by the Commonwealth Government or the State governments? I am sorry that  Senator Marriott  is not here. I think he has gone to obtain answers to some of the questions I intended to ask. He may be able to tell us later what actions have been taken in regard to these matters, and especially what action the Commonwealth, combined with the States, has taken in regard to enforcing much heavier penalities on these people who push drugs. I arn glad to see set out in the report that once a first offender has subscribed to a bond that has been imposed upon him, the matter does not appear on his record as an offence. It is abolished from his record. I think that is particularly desirable in relation to marihuana which is such a controversial drug in regard to its ill effects. 
Now I will make my remarks in relation to cannabis. I do not advocate that anyone should use cannabis but I think our laws are archaic in regard to it. If we do not imprison people for smoking or drinking we have no right whatever to imprison people for using cannabis. There is very little difference between those 3 items especially between alcohol and cannabis or marihuana. When I am asked to talk on this subject at various schools I point out in my talk that this is not a reason why people should take up a new, potentially dangerous drug. We do not know whether marihuana is dangerous but it could be. It took us at least 200 years to find out that tobacco is a harmful drug. Today we realise that tobacco is strictly a serious and debilitating drug. The same could be the case in relation to marihuana. 
When I was in Indianapolis I studied this question of drug taking. The Lilley company in Indianapolis - a drug company - had about 8 Ph.Ds. just testing the effects of marihuana. There was no doubt that it did affect concentration and it did affect one's balance but no more or less than alcohol. But because alcohol is socially accepted we do nothing about it, but if the young, who are adventurous and want to try everything, smoke marihuana they are put into gaol and are regarded as criminals. Our attitude is wrong. There has been no scientific proof at all that marihuana has any genetic effect. It may well have such an effect but this is one of the dangers of taking on a new drug. However, at the moment there is no proof that there are any genetic effects from marihuana, and there is no evidence at all that it results in permanent brain damage. We cannot prove this at all. I want to make it quite clear that I do not advocate the smoking of marihuana. I cannot see the point of introducing another social disease. Until such time as we are prepared to penalise people for drinking alcohol, we have no right whatever to penalise people for taking marihuana. 1 come now to the matter of excessive drug prescribing. I must take issue with the Committee in regard to this matter. People such as professors of pharmocology, specialists in their own narrow fields, come down from their ivory towers and say that it is the general practitioner who is over prescribing. This is nonsensical. I want to be quite emphatic about this. Do not blame the general practitioner. It is not his fault because he is under pressures from several different sources in this regard. Let me deal, first of all, with the elderly. It would horrify honourable senators - it horrifies me sometimes when I am doing locums - to see the number of tablets that an elderly person has and is taking. But one cannot get him off these tablets. He has gone into hospital and he has seen a specialist. The specialist says to him that he must have A, B, C and D and he leaves hospital with A, B, C and D. If he goes into hospital again with another disease he is given X, Y and Z. It is a strange thing, but the older one becomes the greater one's faith in God and the greater one's faith that tablets will keep one alive a little longer. One will do anything to keep oneself alive. Because the elderly person is given 5 tablets on the first occasion and then 3 more for something else, he takes the whole 8 and continues to take the whole 8. We have a system whereby he is able to go to the doctor and just ask for a repeat of his tablets and the doctor, being pretty busy, just writes out the repeat. Perhaps when he comes next time he will see a partner who writes out the other repeat. Nobody knows what tablets he is getting. The system is at fault and not the general practitioner. 
I have stressed before - even the members of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee do not seem to have got this into their heads about triple drugs - that whereas when I went into practice and had to do pharmacology we prescribed a bottle of medicine which may have had 3, 4 or 5 active ingredients, today we do not prescribe a bottle of medicine; we prescribe the 3. 4 or 5 active ingredients as separate pills because in that way they are more potent and more defined. So whereas once upon a time we may have prescribed a bottle of medicine for someone, todav we give him 3 different tablets, and this increases the number of tablets that a person consumes. That effect is not the fault of anyone except our demand for greater accuracy in our prescribing. Time and time again I have seen people - especially elderly people - who have been under the care of a specialist coming out of hospital with 5, 6, 7 or 8 tablets. He has faith in these tablets because a specialist has prescribed them. The general practitioner has to repeat the prescription, and so the patient keeps on taking all of these tablets. 
When I was abroad - again at the Government's expense - I read about evidence that had been given before the Committee. I used to wonder whether I should not write and criticise these people for giving such stupid evidence; it was stupid in my opinion, anyhow. We have the absurdities of the Government itself in relation to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme which create these problems. Suddenly the Government decides that certain things must be taken out. The Committee was given evidence that aspirin was harmful. Of course, no-one mentions that the only time aspirin is harmful is when someone takes 80 tablets a day, but if anyone is silly enough to take 80 tablets a day let him go on taking them and finish his own life. 
Eighty. One has to take them for a considerable time before one gets nephritic effects. It does not matter if the ordinary person who takes APCs for his aches and pains takes 2 every 4 hours. That is a prescribed dose, and it would not hurt to take such a dose for a week or so. But the way it appears in the Committee's report, all aspirin is bad. 
One of the absurdities in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme is that it is good enough to kill off pensioners because they are permitted to have aspirin, but the general public cannot have it. If you are a pensioner we are allowed to prescribe it for you. The same problem exists in relation to phenacetin. So far as the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee is concerned, it is worse. The Committee substituted paracetamol, the end result of which is exactly the same as that of phenacetin. Phenacetin is a very good pain reliever but now we do not have the benefit of it. It does not affect one unless one takes it in massive doses over a long period. The ordinary person in the street cannot get APCs because the P has changed from phenacetin to paracetamol which is a very weak pain killer. 
Then we have the absurd situation in relation to barbiturates. The Government has taken strong, firm action to prevent people from having them. Instead of prescribing 50 as we used to do, we now can prescribe only 25. This simply means that the patient has to visit his doctor twice. However, most of these are the elderly - pensioners who want their sleeping tablets. Does the Government really mean to say that they should be denied their sleeping tablets if they feel that they need to take them? Does it matter whether someone who is 65 years of age takes one, 2 or 3 sleeping tablets each night to make him sleep? Does it really matter at that age? The Government, showing its strong decision, very firmly reduced the number of sleeping tablets to be prescribed to 25. That increased the cost of pharmaceutical and medical bills because the patient had to go to the doctor more often. A pensioner under the pensioner medical service had to visit the doctor every 25 days, or at more frequent intervals if he has to take 2 tablets at night, to get his supply. The final absurdity is that if a patient takes a drug such as nembutal with a strength of 100 milligrams he is allowed only 25 tablets. If the strength is 50 milligrams, he is allowed 100 tablets. A doctor can prescribe 4 times as many tablets  -  100 instead of 25  -  if the strength is half the 100 milligrams. 
That was a bit too much for the Department of Health to work out. It was trying to reduce the number of tablets that could be prescribed but it quadrupled the number that could be prescribed if the dosage was reduced. So you had double the amount available. 
I do not want to debate again the dangers associated with handling drugs. I cannot stress that matter too strongly. From time to time in this chamber I have repeated the number of children who die each week because of the lack of action taken by the Department of Health in providing proper containers. Every excuse has been put up to me in the 4 or 5 years that I have been raising the matter of providing containers which are difficult to open. Some people said that the children can open the containers anyway. It did not matter that the containers made it more difficult for the children to open them. Every possible excuse was given why the Department should not use containers which were difficult to open. At one stage the Department said that the containers were too expensive. The child's life did not matter, compared with the expense. Then it was education: It was the mother's fault for leaving the containers around. The Department did nothing to help the child. Every possible excuse was given, which showed the Department's inefficiency, lack of decision and lack of action. This inefficiency has been going on for quite a time. It is still going on. With the Committee's help, the Department has finally recommended that all tablets should be foil wrapped. Now I suppose the child will eat the foil wrapping as well as the tablet. The foil wrapping is a good idea and is one way of helping. All tablet containers should have on them the antidote as well. 
I turn now to the subject of alcohol, which is mentioned quite a deal in the report. It is the most commonly abused drug that we have but it is one that we do not do anything about because we enjoy it. The hypocrisy of the whole report is that because alcohol is socially acceptable we accept it. Because we are frightened of marihuana we do not do anything about legalising it. We know that tobacco is a killer and a great cause of morbidity in the community. If I remember rightly, there was not one recommendation in regard to tobacco. The supine attitude of the Government in regard this matter horrifies me. The Government has no excuse, because it has been m power all these years. It is now 4 years, I think, since the first 2 reports  on  the harmfulness of smoking came out. Not one thing has been done. It is longer than 4 years. I remember  Senator Wade  was the Minister for Health then. He used to tell me that education was the answer. 'Hear, hear' would cry members of the Liberal Party sitting behind him. What has the Government done about education? It has been shown that education is useless. The Government has not spent one cent on education. This year it intends to do something about education. 
On education in relation to the dangers of tobacco smoking. Until this year it has not spent one cent. 
We will hear what has been done when the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Health makes his speech. The drug has been shown to be harmful. Most intelligent societies have recommended that a danger warning be put on each pack of cigarettes. That still has not been done. It is well recognised that the tar content of the cigarettes should be shown on the pack. Because the tobacco companies are the greatest supporters of the Liberal Party, and probably the Labor Party as well - they give to both and at a time when they think there is to be a change of government they give very freely to the Oppositionboth the Government and the Opposition have fought the issue of prohibiting the very things that we have been advocating that the Government should do from a health point of view in regard to tabacco smoking. They have no excuse for their lack of knowledge in regard to this matter. It has been brought home to them time and time again. There have been many reports. The Department of Health and the National Health and Medical Research Council have reported on the matter. Everyone in authority in this country knows that smoking is harmful,  a  killer and the cause of great morbidity and loss of man hours in income. Not a thing has been done. It would be simple to prohibit all advertising. Even the advertising that the Government allows now has been watered down, at the instigation of the tobacco industry. I cannot understand the supine attitude of the Government to  a  matter as serious as this. 
It is revenue. I would increase the tax on smoking so that those who want to kill themselves should pay for the hospital attention that they will need because -they smoke. I would put more tax on smoking. There is no reason why there should be any advertising on television or radio. We know the reason why we cannot abolish advertising on television. It is because the owners of the television stations are the greatest supporters of the Government. In fact, one owner appoints our Prime Minister. It is obvious that we have to bow to these companies and not do anything to offend them. 
At the moment 1 think I could say 'none', but that would be too easy. At the moment I do not think even  Sir Frank  Packer is supporting the Government. I deal now with the subject of treatment. The report was made in May 1971. lt said that $5m should be given immediately for help in regard to drug abuse. How much has been given? Perhaps the Assistant Minister will tell us. How much is being spent on treatment and research in regard to drug abuse? Not one cent. 
There are 2 other matters which are not emphasised particularly in the report, although they are mentioned. The first deals with detailers. The Department of Health has a most peculiar attitude to pharmaceutical companies. As in any other business, the companies send around detailers who advertise to the doctors. The doctors are supposed to be pure suckers who, after listening to the detailer, immediately prescribe his drug. There are now 40 to 50 detailers and they visit doctors once every 3 months. So doctors must be turning over their drugs fairly rapidly. I wonder how stupid the companies think the GPs are? A detailer visits a doctor on 
Tuesday and says that his brand of aspirin is good. The doctor prescribes it immediately. The detailer forgets that on Thaisday morning another company's detailer visits the doctor and says that his brand of aspirin is best. So the doctor promptly changes, because the detailer told him. The whole attitude to detailers is completely erroneous and has no effect on the doctor's prescription of drugs. Because a detailer tells a doctor information in regard to his company's drug does not make the doctor prescribe any more. 
There may be 15 different type of tetracycline. I think there are only 3 or 5 of erythromycin. But about 15 people come in and tell us about tetracycline. It is still the same drug but a different brand. What is the difference whether one comes in or 15 come in? The doctor knows that he has to use a tetracycline and he is going to use it. Perhaps he likes the look of one detailer better than another and so he uses that brand. But it is absurd to say that detailers exert pressure on doctors. I think the report of the Committee went on to suggest that detailers should have minimum qualifications. I think that is a good idea. They should have some knowledge. Actually, it is not important if they do not because it is a doctor's responsibility and he can usually check quite simply. A new second bible has been issued in the last few years alongside the pharmaceutical benefits book. It is a compendium of medical drugs and it contains nearly all the do's and don'ts about the matter. The final matter I want to mention relates to the bizarre effect of some of these drugs. This is a risk we have to take. It is no good throwing thalidomide at me and saying: 'Look at that'. No-one knew anything about it. Nowadays one can say that practically every drug has some effect. But today we do not know the effect many of the drugs have on the unborn child. I am not talking about thalidomide. We tell pregnant women not to take most drugs. But this is something which we have to face. It is no good saying that drug companies rush out to put these drugs on the market to make money. Of course they do. Everyone knows that. But the companies do not know any more than the doctors know in regard to these bizarre effects. If we want to carry this matter to the extreme we could look at penicillin. I forgot how many deaths occur each year in Australia because people are given an injection of penicillin. But we do not stop it. We keep using it. This is a risk one has to take because of the power of penicillin. So it is no good saying that we cannot take every drug which comes on the market because it may or may not have an effect. This is a risk we have to accept. 
That is a different problem. 
Yes- through the cow from the pastures. But there is too much worry. I am not decrying the fact that some of these drugs cause deformity but we have to face up to the fact that if we want potent drugs this is a risk we have to take. Another matter which I shall raise at another time is along the same lines and that is vaccination. Everyone should be vaccinated. In the United States there were 8 deaths from vaccination. Does this mean that we are going to stop vaccinating people? Of course it does not. The same applies to deformities which occur. On the whole I support this report. I think that it is very good. I think that the Committee worked hard on it. My only criticism is that the Committee listened to the ivory tower people rather than the general practitioners. I do not think that enough general practitioners gave evidence. But on the whole the report is good. My only regret is that the Government has not done anything about the recommendations. If it has it has been minuscule. No-one knows what the Government has done. I hope - and I understand - that we will hear from the Assistant Minister Assisting the Minister for Health as to the number of recommendations which have been put into effect. 
I direct a question to you,  Mr Acting President.  Last week a question was addressed to the  President  in regard to parking for members of the Parliament outside Parliament House. What has been done about this? Honourable senators cannot park in the parking area. I promise that I will park right in front of the Prime Minister's car next time I cannot find a parking place. Then we may get some action. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  I cannot give an immediate answer to the honourable senator's question. I will try to obtain the information for him. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I direct a question to you,  Mr Acting President,  for your consideration. 1 refer to the method of honourable senators rising in their places to ask questions without notice. Having observed the scene for some 10 years and, during that time, increasing in age and finding increasing disability in jumping up and down like a yo-yo, and after hearing comments from a Norwegian who thought as 1 do that it is quite undignified for members to keep on popping up and down almost like continuous yo-yos, I ask: Would it not be possible for some system to operate whereby honourable senators could notify the presiding officer beforehand either personally or by messenger that they had a question to ask and let the  President  or whoever is acting in that position proceed to call on honourable senators to rise in their turns rather than have this undignified method of popping up and down and hoping that we will be seen? 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  -In reply to  Senator Turnbull,  I desire to say that the present practice in regard to the asking of questions is a long-established one. I think that any change may have to go before the Standing Orders Committee. However, I will certainly refer the matter to the  President  on his return. I want to say that 1 am following precedent. I know that sometimes honourable senators may feel that they are being overlooked. But certain principles have been set for me to follow. They are that leaders and  deputy  leaders of parties or whips take precedence over other honourable senators when they stand to ask a question. I want honourable senators to bear this in mind. The request of  Senator Turnbull  will be submitted to the  President  for consideration. 
I rise to speak on the Budget. One can only say that this is one of the best budgets that has ever been presented to any Parliament, Commonwealth or State. The Budget must be accepted by everyone because what the Government is following is part of the policy of the Australian Labor Party and part of the policy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. This is really an ALP-DLP Budget. This makes the Budget quite simple to accept from the point of view that everyone now supports it. In fact, the corollary almost seems to be that the Government has a death wish: It feels that it may go out of office and it wants to make things as easy as possible for the Australian Labor Party when it assumes office. The Australian Labor Party has a Budget ready for it to take over when it occupies the Government benches. 
I wish to address myself not so much to the contents of the Budget - the goodies in it - as to the way in which it has been presented. In the first place, this Budget is 12 months too late. What it contains should have been done 12 months ago. Instead of that, the Budget that was presented contained technical jargon instead of proposals which would be of use to 
Australia. Apparently, the thing to do today is to use this jargon. The idea is to emulate typical financial jargon such as cost-push', 'demand inflation', 'wage demands' and 'rising costs'. That is what was done in the last Budget. The result was almost disaster for Australia. 
This makes more sickening than ever the sight of Government members rising and talking about national superannuation. Each Government member who has spoken of national superannuation really must be completely ashamed of himself and what he has said about it. This Government has been in power for 23 years and has done nothing about national superannuation. It was only last year, or even less than a year ago, when the Labor Party said that it intended to introduce national superannuation and to abolish the means test in 5 years that Australia was told by the Government that this was impossible; it could not be done. Yet, today, members of the Government rise and say: 'Look what we are going to do. We are going to introduce national superannuation and abolish the means test in 3 years'. Not one explanation has been given by Government members as to how this can be done now. It is all very well to criticise the other Party because it has said that it will do this in 5 years and then suddenly to say that it can be done in 3 years. This to mc is one of the most sickening features of this Budget. 
This Government, which has done nothing at all for the people on the poverty line, suddenly has come forth with these goodies. Why? We all know that it has done so because an election is soon to be held and never before has the Government been led by such a disaster as its present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  It appears that, after 23 years of office, the Government has not only run out of ideas but has also run out of leaders. We have been left with this puppet who stands up and is wiggled about. On the one side, the DLP is pulling the strings controlling the Prime Minister. On the other side, the Country Party is pulling the strings controlling him. In the middle the Prime Minister is sustained by his own ambition to remain as Prime Minister. 
He  is doing  all  right. But he is doing all right only because  he  has been given a lead as to how to do things rather than by acting  as  a leader himself. 
 I do all right? 
 I am not sure what he means. But it is not just I alone who- 
I am not surprised, it should have done that years ago. What surprised me as a matter of fact was that it allowed me to remain in for  11  years. 
That is right.  Thi  Labor Party is very foolish, in fact, but it did the best thing for me. We have here now another senator in a similar position. I am in good company in this respect. I refer in this debate not merely to the fact that we have a Budget which shows no new ideas except for what has been copied from the ALP and the DLP. I stress also that we have not a leader. If ever there was a time when Australian needed a leader, it is now. We are giving away the whole of our birthright as fast as we can and as cheaply as possible. We keep talking about foreign ownership but do nothing about it. I know that a Senate committee is investigating this matter. But more than an inquiry by a committee is needed. By the time that the Committee presents its findings, nothing will be left. This deplorable lack of leadership is affecting the whole of Australia. 
The fact that the Government parties cannot find a leader is in itself deplorable because there are some good men in the Government. There is no reason why the Government should not be able to find a leader. Honourable senators should not say that I alone am condemning the leadership. If honourable senators wander around Australia as I have done lately - I have been doing locums in different areas - they  will  not find, as I have  not  found  one  genuine Liberal who supports the present Prime Minister, who  does not  say: 'We have a disaster on our hands'. They all admit that they have  a  disaster on their hands, that they should have a change in leadership but that  it  is too risky to change leaders now; therefore, they must put up with what they have. 
I remember that the first time when I met the present Prime Minister in the United States of America he was then Minister for External Affairs. He came to the United States and made a most shocking speech. The next year, as Prime Minister, he came to a dinner party in the United States. I think that  Senator O'Byrne  would agree with me that it was the greatest shocker of a speech that was ever heard from a Prime Munster, bearing in mind the company selected to meet him. 
 Senator O'Byrne  was not making the speech and he was not the Prime Minister. What did the man who made no impact at all upon the Americans do? He came back to Australia and said what a wonderful relationship he had with them. He had such a wonderful relationship mainly because of his wife; there is no doubt about that. 
No senator shall use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House. 
I have no objection whatever to legitimate political criticism of any political figure, but I think the honourable senator is going beyond what could be regarded as legitimate political criticism and is descending into the gutter of personal abuse. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Do you wish to speak on the point of order,  Senator Turnbull? 
No,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I did not think you were going to worry about  it. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I suggest that you refrain from undue criticism of a member  of  another House. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  the Prime Minister is not only a part of another House; he is a part of the Australian scene. Australians are entitled to criticise their Prime Minister. Australia is still a free country. There is nothing in the Standing Orders which says that a Prime Minister should not be criticised. 
I am not in the gutter. 
I hope it is. I have not said anything so far that has not been of a political nature. I am entitled to make political comment. 
I was just about to say that the only person who attracted attention in the United States was  Mrs McMahon.  Everyone knows that she received Press publicity throughout United States because she was photographed wearing a special dress that exposed a considerable amount of thigh. Everyone knows that. It was in the newspapers. The impact of these 2 people on the American public was such that they were called the naked and the dead. The only people who supported the Prime Minister in New York were the sycophants surrounding him who kept saying: 'What a wonderful speech yon made'. Everyone at the dinner party I attended was surprised at the speech he delivered. Honourable senators would have blushed if they had heard it. The PrimeMinister made a mess of his speech; yet his sycophants told him it was a wonderful speech. About 60 people were at the dinner party and I should think that about 50 of them would have asked: 'Can he not do better than that?' So it was not just my opinion. 
I do not want to make a prediction, but from talks I have had with supporters of the Liberal Party throughout Australia I would not be surprised if, should the present Liberal-Country Party Government be returned to office at the next election, which is a possibility,  Mr McMahon  were to be Prime Minister for only another year before being kicked upstairs to the position of Governor-General. It should be remembered that that position is due to fall vacant at about that time and the LiberalCountry Party Government has already prostituted the position by appointing a politician to it in order to get rid of him. I have no objection to the office of GovernorGeneral. I will have more to say on that in a moment. 
Yes, I know. But I do not think such tactics should be adopted with respect to the office of Governor-General. Some people are not lucky enough to get three or four trips abroad either. 
I turn now to the effects of the Budget. One important point I want to stress is that without increased productivity this Budget will be absolutely useless in fighting inflation. It is true that we in Australia are not used to the degree of inflation that occurs in other countries. Some countries seem to think that we do not have very much inflation, but to us it is high. However, a country cannot do anything about inflation unless it is prepared to increase its productivity. There is nothing in this Budget that shows any desire by the Government to increase productivity. One of the worst features of our economy at present is that 25 per cent of the work force is employed in the Public Service. Can any supporter of the Government show me where there has been any increase in productivity in the Public Service? There has not been one iota of productivity increase. The only increase in the Public Service has been in personnel, which means that there must have been a decrease in productivity. That is the example the Government is giving. Because of the unemployment problem the Government now says it is going to open up the Public Service so that more people can be recruited. That will mean less unemployment. But the Government is forgetting that the people who are recruited into the Public Service will be there permanently and therefore cannot be removed in the future. We will have a greater load round our neck than ever before and more inflation. 
Another factor which has to be taken into account in the fight against inflation is the demand by certain sections of the work force for a 35-hour working week. Let me say at the outset that I do not agree with the proposition that there should be a 35- hour working week. The Government is making gibes about these demands, but what has it done about those public servants who work a 37-hour week? 
Thank you,  Senator Georges. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  -  Senator Georges,  you will cease interjecting. 
But that was a very helpful interjection,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I am very grateful to tha honourable senator for it. I hope he will interject again. There is very little difference between a 36i-hour working week and a 35-hour working week; yet we have the Government attacking those who want a 35-hour working week and doing nothing about the 25 per cent of the work force which works a 36i-hour week. If the Government believes what it says it should do something about those people who work a 36i-hour week. But it is too scared and worried to do anything. The Government is scared of everyone. It is not prepared to put its foot down about anything because it thinks that its action might affect votes at the next election. 
That brings me to the next subject with regard to the fight against inflation, that is, revaluation of the Australian dollar. Let me say straight out that I am in favour of it. It is nonsensical that members of the Australian Country Party and those who hold seats in electorates verging on country areas are so scared about the possibility of not retaining their seats at the next election that they are prepared to sell their souls. The Australian dollar has not been revalued solely because of the attitude of the Country Parry. Let me remind honourable senators that 80 per cent of the people of Australia live in urban areas. Instead of revaluing the dollar we are devaluing it and allowing the inflow of money into Australia whilst at the same time costs are increasing. I do not want to go into the argument whether  Sir William  Gunn is right or someone else is right about wool. All I wish to do is to point out that there is a dispute within the Country Party itself with regard to revaluation of the Australian dollar. There also seems to be a dispute in both the Liberal Party and the Labor Party in regard to the same matter. But ones attitude to that dispute, it seems to me, is solely dependent on whether one has an electorate with Country Party supporters in it. Not one person has thought about what is the best thing for Australia. There is no doubt but that the best thing for Australia is revaluation. We should have been going for that all along. 
It would help to reduce inflation because goods would flow into Australia. We would have cheaper goods in Australia than we have at present. 
Unemployment is a different factor altogether. 
Of course it is an important factor, but it does not have anything to do with the present situation with regard to revaluation. 
We have a Tariff Board and country people receive subsidies. They will all be looked after in due course. At least the unfortunate people in the cities would be able to get some benefit, from revaluation. It would help them. 
1 1 may be an over-simplification of the position, but I am not the only one who is advocating revaluation. Although I once received a prize in economics, I do not regard myself as an economist. But there are economists in this country who say that we should revalue and that it would be the best thing for Australia, not just for the Country Party. 
No. Let me point out that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is the cause of any speculation. When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was accused of speculating the other day the Treasurer should have stepped in and said that the Government would or would not revalue the dollar. He should not have shilly-shallied as he did, leaving the issue open to doubt. If the Government were strong he would have said 'We are not going to revalue', or 'We are going to revalue', whichever way he wanted it. But he left it as it was. The Prime Minister says one thing and the Treasurer says something else. It is the divisive attitude in the Government which has just about brought it to its knees already. 
I want to get on to the subject of health. I am getting sick and tired of standing up here year after year for 10 years complaining about the Commonwealth Department of Health. We have no Minister representing the Minister for Health in this chamber at present. There used to be a time when one could even talk to Ministers and they would know the position. But I presume that the Minister for Health  (Sir Kenneth Anderson)  will be able to read and he might be able to pick up my remarks. 
Yes, the Minister for Health is sick, the Assistant Minister is in Geneva and the Acting Minister for the Acting Minister is outside. But that is all right. I am just pointing out that we do not have anyone interested in the Department of Health sitting here. I want to criticise the Department of Health because there is no doubt that it is a pretty horrendous type of Department. It has many people in it who have no idea of general practice in this country. They have no idea of what is going on except through their regulation constipated minds. That is all they have. 
They are so full of regulations that they do not know where to turn next. That is the sort of Department which rules us today. 
I want to give the Senate some examples of this. If the Government goes on in the way it is going it will have a confrontation with general practitioners. It is this Liberal Government and no other government which has brought about the state of affairs whereby general practitioners have become second rate doctors. This has been forced on them by the differentiated rebates and the fact that one has to be a specialist in order to receive the higher rates. It does not matter if one does the same job as a specialist, one does not get paid as much because one does not have a senior degree. This situation is laid right at the door of the Government because it introduced the differential rebates. If we are going to have second class doctors we are not going to have any doctors at all. At the present moment there is an increasing shortage of doctors. If we are not careful we are going to have thousands of Asian doctors practising here just as they do in England where the hospitals cannot be controlled without Asian and African doctors. 
At the moment it looks as though there could be a confrontation between the Government and general practitioners. I say straight away that this is almost certain to occur after the general election. The only people who will be hurt are the patients. It will not affect the doctors. Of course it will not affect the Government. But the patients themselves will suffer. That is why I think it is time that a bit of common sense was talked between the doctors and the Government rather than have this attitude: If you do not toe the line we will crack the whips at you and you will not be able to allow your patients to have any benefits under the National Health Act. I think that that is one of the most stupid and dangerous statements that has ever come from a government. If it wants a fight it will have a fight. Governments always win but in the fight which will occur there is no doubt at all that it will be the patient who will suffer and nobody else. I think I heard  Senator Carrick  talking about Labor going to nationalise the medical profession. Just recently I wrote a letter to the 'Medical Journal' in which I mentioned this very subject. But doctors will have a choice. 
They can be nationalised under Labor or they can participate under Liberal. I think on 4 occasions in the Journal I have written: Put not your trust in political parties because either party will sell you down the river as fast as it can if it thinks it can win votes. This is what the Liberal Party is doing at the moment. 
Perhaps it is a disadvantage but I think it is a good thing. It gives me a clearer mind. The position is that on the one hand we have the Government saying that if doctors do not do what it tells them it will take their livelihood away. On the other hand the Labor Party is saying that if doctors do not do what it tells them it will nationalise them. I think that if it were up to the doctors, in the end they would say that they would rather be nationalised. If this is going to happen - I do not think it will - what would be the best thing? I would rather be a civil servant knowing that every year I will receive an increase in pay and a pretty hefty lump at that rather than be strangled by the Liberal Party and told exactly what I had to do as a doctor. So there is going to be a choice. It is not much of a choice but it may swing a lot of doctors to thinking that they may be better off nationalised. 
I think that in the last few months 5 doctors in Canberra have just closed their surgery doors and joined the Department of Health. They saw the writing on the wall and wanted to get in early. The same thing is going to happen in relation to nursing homes. I think it was  Senator Carrick  who said that this is a great thing that the Government has done. But no-one mentioned the little writing in between which states: 'We will control the nursing home prices'. This is rather a strange thing from a free enterprise Government which believes that business should charge exactly what it wants. But the moment it comes to health policy the Government decides exactly what it is going to allow people to charge to sell their goods. Certainly there will not be enough nursing homes at the moment in view of the bonanza which has just been handed out. They will proliferate like mad. People will make money out of them. Of course the crunch will come when they want to put up their fees because prices have gone up and inflation has caught up with them. They will be told: 'No, you cannot increase your prices'. I would not trust this Government at all because the chemists have proved that this Government is not to be trusted when it makes an agreement in regard to prices. That is one of the reasons why doctors are very distrustful of this Government. 
I want to come to some of the regulations imposed by this hide-bound Department. A man in the Department is paid  $22,000  a year which is probably a lot more than some general practitioners receive because they have costs to subtract before they obtain a profit of  $22,000.  I doubt whether many general practitioners would earn that amount. But here we have a man earning  $22,000  a year and his satellites are assistant secretaries or first secretaries. They get higher names as they receive higher pay. They all sit in their little offices and think of regulations which they can turn out to hinder the doctors, the patients or somebody. 
They are very efficient with their regulations. Some of them are so completely stupid that one wonders how anyone with such a poor IQ could last in a department until one realises that this is the only place in which they could last. 
It fills in the day and it gives them something to do. I want to mention Intal. This illustrates the sort of attitude which one finds. It is not a question of what can we do to help a patient or the public but of how can we hinder as much as we can. I give a personal example. The drug call Intal needs a special authority - a special form. I was doing a locum for a doctor who had written for the special authority on a Friday and had left for London on the following Sunday. I became his locum on the Monday. In due course the authority came back approved.  1  promptly wrote out the prescription for the patient and said: Go and get it.' Back came the reply: 'You are not allowed to do that. You did not apply.' I telephoned and said: 'Who is supposed to sign?' The reply was: The doctor who asked for it.' I said: 'But he is in London.' I was told: That is bad luck'. So I said: 'What will you do? Does the patient wait until the doctor comes back in  2  months' time or do I have to write out another special authority?' I was told: 'You write out another'. I just could not get it into mat stupid man's head that I was a locum tenens and therefor acting for that doctor. That is the sort of thing which makes everyone angry. Knowing a bit about the business I said: 'Is there a regulation?' I was told: 'Yes, there is a regulation. The doctor who signs the prescription must be the one who applied for it.' So I said: 'Would you ask the Minister to make available the memorandum which was submitted to him when he approved of the regulation.' Ministers are supposed to approve of regulations and usually the Department hands out a memorandum saying why it should be approved. However, if the Minister in charge of the portfolio is non-technical, he just signs the approval. About a week later the officer rang me up and said: 'We cannot even find the memorandum.' Some little man had just decided that it should be put in the regulations and he did this. The Minister automatically signed the approval. 
This is the sort of thing that goes on. If it happened to Government senators they would be up in arms. Because it does not happen to them they say that it is all right. Only about a month ago I was in George Town doing a locum and the same sort of thing happened. I wrote to Hobart and asked for a special authority for the drug Intal. We had kicked up a tremendous fuss because at one stage we had to fill in a form comprising 4 pages in order to get this authority. The purpose of the drug is to treat those suffering from asthma. These people are breathing rapidly and in distress while they are waiting for Government officials to do some work. Afterwards we were able to be supplied with this drug on an ordinary special authority. I sent the appropriate form down to Hobart in order to get this drug. We are told that the patient has to suffer from chronic intracta ble asthma in order to get it. In my hurry, I just wrote 'asthma'. Because I had not dotted the i's and crossed the fs, because I did not specify 'chronic intractable asthma', my application was sent back. But we are not allowed to ask for this drug unless the patient is suffering from chronic intractable asthma; therefore I would not have signed the application unless that was the case. But my application went down to some little official in Hobart who sent it back to me and said: 'Why do you want it for asthma?' I would like to read to the Senate,  or  incorporate in Hansard, the correspondence that was written. 
I sent the application down and I received this letter back: 
I refer to your recent application for authority to prescribe  Disodium Cromoglycate  (Intal) as a Pharmaceutical Benefit for . . . for treatment of 'asthma'. 
The purpose for which Intal may be prescribed as a Pharmaceutical 'Benefit is stated in the Schedule of Benefits as: 
The prevention of chronic intractable asthma'. 
It would be appreciated if you could furnish further details regarding the severity of the patient's condition, and the use of other therapy. I will defer your application pending your further advice. 
There is a modern device called the telephone. It does not matter to an official of the Department, apparently, that a patient is sitting there gasping away while waiting. I got very cross and replied that same day. I wrote: 
I am just as aware as you are that the purpose for which Intal may be prescribed is for 'the prevention of chronic intractable asthma'. You may recall that in order to pass through medical school one had to be able to read. 
I interpolate here to say that it is in the regulations that if you sign the form you must know what you are signing for. My letter continues: 
It would be obvious to any good general practitioner that every drug would have been tried before putting a patient on to Intal: I could list all the various drugs . . . has had for her asthma but as you would have to take my word for them, you can now take my word that they have been ordered for her. The severity of the patient's condition would have to be assessed by me but as she is suffering from chronic intractable asthma and I find that other drugs are not helping her and that I believe the best drug for her is Intal, would you kindly forward me the necessary authority? 
Before holding up other applications, I would suggest to you that you ring the doctor concerned because he is probably concerned with the patient's welfare whereas it is immaterial to your department how long it takes for a patient to commence treatment on a necessary drug. 
I myself would have rung you but I feel this may deplete your file and therefore to assist you I am replying by letter - but the fault of the patient not having had treatment lies with you.  1 received the authority next clay without any comment. This shows the stupidity of the mind of the pedantic, laborious, typical civil servant. Just because 1 used the word asthma' instead of 'chronic intractable asthma' he sent back my application and was held up. How would a Minister like it if be went to his doctor suffering from asthma, which is a nasty disease, and the doctor said: 'Yes, I think you now need Intal', and then said that be had to write to a doctor in Hobart, Perth, or some other capital city in order to obtain approval from a man who does not clinically examine the patient and who has to take the doctor's word for what he writes. This is stupid, lt is nonsensical. Yet the Government allows it to happen and does nothing about it. lt knows about these things but it does not care. This matter has been raised before in this chamber but the Government does not care. Once an honourable senator becomes a Minister he is so frightened of the head of his Department that he would not dare criticise him, because the Minister is such a bloody fool himself that he cannot cope with him. 
 My blood pressure is good. It is 120 over 80, if you want to know. The point is that the Minister is so dead scared of the head of his Department that he just approves these regulations and says: 'What a silly man that general practitioner is to complain about you when I know that as head of the Department you are wonderful!' 
I think it would be pretty high. But that is only a speculation; I do not know. Let me remind honourable senators that these things happen "o patients and that they could happen to honourable senators. Yet Government senators are the people who prefer to allow an officer from the Commonwealth Department of Health, who probably has not been in practice for 10, 20 or 30 years, to decide what treatment a patient should have. If Government senators are honest in their opinions, they will agree with me. 
I will deal with the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee now and I do not want any Minister to get up and tell me what a wonderful body of men are on the Committee. I do not want to be told that they are the leading men in Australia, because once they fall into the trap of accepting a position on the Committee they become civil servants. I will not mention them today, but previously I have pointed out the innumerable mistakes that these men have made. I will mention just briefly one of them. As I said, to obtain an authority to use Intal we had to fill in 4 pages, but when there was a row about it we had to fill in only a simple authority. For years we doctors had to lie like hell so that we could get tetracyclines for our patients, because they could be prescribed only for specific purposes. In order to obtain an authority we had to write 'SP' alongside the application; so we all put 'SP'. No one cared 2 hoots. It tickled the mind of the civil servant who felt that he was making the doctor think and he was getting it for a special purpose. So we wrote 'SP' and we all became liars. We had to do it for the sake of our patients. That situation was brought about by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. The Committee is like a statutory organisation. When the Committee is doing something good the Government takes credit for it, but when it is doing something terrible the Government says: We have no control over it; it is an organisation by itself. We cannot control it in any way'. 
When the National Health Bill was before this Parliament 2 years ago the Senate carried an amendment making it compulsory for the Pharmaceutical Benefits 
Advisory Committee to state the reasons for rejecting a drug  or  accepting a drug. Because the Parliament was about to go into recess the Democratic Labor Party felt that it had better not hold up the Bill any longer. The next day the amendment was submitted again. The Democratic Labor Party voted with the Government and the amendment was defeated. During the course of the passage of this Bill it was pointed out that the names of the members of the Committee should be known. This proposal was carried and then defeated the next day. On each occasion the Department of Health said that it could not disclose the names of the members of the Committee. It argued that if their names were disclosed they would be pestered to death by all the drug companies. It said that it would be impossible to publish the names. It just could not be envisaged by the Department of Health. So this proposal was carried and then it was defeated. Then of its own accord the Department of Health said: 'Yes, we will tell you the names of the members of the Committee.' The very reasons that the Department gave us suddenly disappeared overnight. Now we do know their names. In fact, we knew several of the members before, but now the public knows the names of these people. 
I make the same remarks on the question of the refusal of drugs. Do not tell me that they are the best people on this Committee because they are the people who one week put a drug on the free list and the next week take it off, and vice versa. These are the people who say that we cannot have double or triple drugs and then they add an extra one to the list. These things have happened. It is in relation to this Committee that the Minister for Health will get up and say: 'Its members comprise very well known and very senior people in the profession that no one dare criticise them.' In fact, they probably sit a little further over from God, next to the Ministers. There is no reason why the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee should not give its reasons for refusing to put a drug on the pharmaceutical benefits list. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
General Business taking Precedence of Government Business at 8 p.m. 
 Mr President,  previously when I was speaking on the Budget I bad discussed the various political and economic points of the Budget. But I must say that this verbose and repetitive document on the 35-hour week, which has just been handed to us, confirms what I had said. 
No, I do not agree with that. The man has already gone senile. What I am trying to point out is that I have already discussed this matter in my speech on the Budget. I do not agree with the 35-hour week, but I also disagree with the hypocrisy of the Government in bringing forward this emetic document. Every reason given in the document is a reason why the Public Service should work a 40-hour week. As I have said previously, if the Government is sincere in its attitude that there should be no 35-hour week, why should it allow 25 per cent of the work force to have a 36-hour week? There is little difference between the 2. The fact that $58m was paid in overtime in the Public Service is a reason why the Public Service should work a 40-hour week. It is also another reason why we should not have a 35-hour week. If we have a 35- hour week what will happen is that there will be more overtime. When one visits other countries one finds that people work a 6-day week, if not a 7-day week, and if we want to keep up with other countries eventually we will have to work a bit harder, too. That is all I want to say about the statement that has just been delivered. It is an absurdity to present such a document in this chamber and in the other place when the Government is hypocritical in its attitude to the Public Service working a 40-hour week. 
I now revert to the subject which I was discussing when I was rudely interrupted previously. I was talking about our paranoic Department of Health which has only one factor in mind - how to make more regulations and how to impede general practitioners. The unfortunate thing is that most of the doctors in the Department of Health have a chip on their shoulders about general practitioners. They think that general practitioners make far too much money and therefore they have to be pulled  down.  Therefore, the departmental doctors say: 'Let us hinder them in every possible way we can'. 
I had already discussed some of these points. I was dealing with the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. Again I do not want to be told that there are eminent people on the Committee. I know that they are eminent people but. as I have said previously, once they work for the Government they become rather constipated mentally in the same way as do the public servants who work in the Department of Health. I have pointed out the number of errors they make in regard to pharmaceutical drugs, but I want to raise this question again because when the Senate was debating the National Health Bill it insisted that the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee should make known its reasons for refusing to place a drug on the pharmaceutical benefits list. When the Department of Health is asked to do this it says: 'It cannot be done'. 
This is exactly what the Department said in regard to the naming of the Committee; it said: 'It cannot be done'. But after all the kerfuffle about this matter, the Department, without any necessity to do so, went ahead and did it. The same thing applies to the question of drugs not being placed on the pharmaceutical benefits list. Many drugs that have been placed on the list have been taken ofl! it and other drugs have been placed on it. It is completely unfair not to inform drug companies of the reason why a drug is not on the pharmaceutical benefits list. When this question was raised previously the Department of Health had the stupidity  -  I am sorry to say that is the only word for it - to say: Oh, you cannot make them give the reason because one of the competitors might find out what it is all about'. The competitors know what it is all about anyhow. Probably they already have a drug on the list, or if they want a drug to be placed on the list, they would be only too happy to know the reason; they would want to know the reason - everybody wants to know. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who, in this chamber, represents the Acting Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  is not present in the chamber, but I hope that somebody will raise this matter with the Acting Minister for Health. Let us have some clarity of the position and let us hear some commonsense about this matter instead of the nonsensical utterances that we hear from the Department of Health. 
Now I want to refer to 2 other matters which concern the Department of Health and then 1 might let the Department off the hook. I have referred previously to the rather nonsensical and ludicrous exhibition concerning preventative medicine which occurs every time an aircraft lands in Australia. Those honourable senators who have been abroad and have returned to Australia by air know that the door of the aircraft is opened and that all the flies inside the aircraft sec a notice which says: 'Flies, do not go out the door until we spray you'. Then 2 men come on board the aircraft with canisters in each hand and they walk up the plane spraying and all the insects drop dead. 
 Yes. lt does noi matter about the passengers sitting there who are hot and anxious to get off the aircraft. They just sit there and wait while this exhibition of autocracy is shown to the world. The Department says: 'We are looking after the health of the Australian people, so we will spray the aircraft'. If this spraying has to be done - and it is not done by many countries- 
 I know there are, but in many  of  them the hostesses on the aircraft do it. When it has been suggested to the Department of Health that the hostesses could do it in Australia the Department has said:  'No,  they cannot be trusted to do it'. The captain of an aircraft is paid even more than a head of a department, so I presume that he is a responsible person. 
It could be put on one of his lists that this has to bc done. It is simple. It could be done while the aircraft was in motion and it would save this unnecessary delay when the aircraft lands. Also it would overcome this ludicrous position which makes every person entering Australia laugh at our customs. 
That is right. But there is a notice which tells all flies to stay in; that has been attended to beforehand. 
-No.  The spray could be put into the air circuit. 
 Yes. Sometimes passengers need stay one minute or 2 minutes only, depending on the officiousness of the sprayer. Hie point is that this action is needless. The Department  of  Health waves the big stick and says: 'We are protecting your health. Therefore, what  we  say is right.' But the Department's officials have not been in practice. Half the time, they do not know what they are talking about. I turn to the matter of vaccinations. Do not get me wrong; I believe that every person should be vaccinated. 
Yes. But Great Britain and many European countries do not demand vaccination certificates for entry now. When this question is raised with the Australian Department of Health, hands are raised in horror. But the Department's officials do not know what they are talking about. Honourable senators may have read a statement in the Press the other day - it is one which the Department of Health backs - that an increase has taken place in the level of smallpox in the world. That statement lacked the qualification from Geneva where the statistics are kept that the only reason why the level has increased is that medical teams have been sent into Ethiopia and it is there that cases of smallpox which have not been reported previously have been discovered. These teams working through that country now have discovered so many cases that these additional findings have caused a marked increase in the world figures for the incidence of smallpox. In every other part of the world the incidence of smallpox has decreased. There are only 2 other centres where smallpox is still found. These are Indonesia and an enclave somewhere in India. 
Let us accept that we should be vaccinated. But why do we carry this precaution to such extreme lengths with respect to children suffering from eczema and pregnant woman, who cannot be vaccinated? Whilst it is not impossible to vaccinate such cases, it is harmful. Yet the Department of Health requires those in these categories to enter quarantine for 10 days. The absurdity of this situation is demonstrated in this way: If these people come from the 3 countries where smallpox is to be found, certainly they should be required to enter quarantine, but if they come from any other country, they should be admitted. The Department of Health admits directly that it will accept a person who has come from America- 
No. The period is up to 3. weeks. 
The likelihood of infection is extremely rare. As is pointed out in England and Geneva, these people can be traced and in a special case such as the one mentioned by the honourable senator the person concerned could be asked to report each day to an officer of the Department of Health. The Australian Department of Health releases people from the need to be vaccinated for smallpox if they come from America. The Department has accepted that standard. But a person who comes from anywhere else, including Europe, must have a vaccination certificate. In 2 cases recently pregnant women were placed in a quarantine station in New South Wales because they were not and could not be vaccinated. This is an absolutely monstrous absurdity. Nothing is being done about it. If it was the wife of an honourable senator who was affected, that honourable senator would be the first to raise his voice in protest. But the Minister for Health listens to the stupid people in the Department of Health who say this cannot be done. It can be done. It is done everwhere in the world. It is time it was done here. I wish to move now from the subject of the Department of Health lest I be accused of a paranoia about that Department. 
I turn to the question of the VIP aircraft. I suppose T will need to be very careful in what I say. No doubt exists that, although we now accept the use of VIP aircraft, this form of transport is being abused, and perhaps to the greatest extent by none other than the Governor-General himself. Every time a request is made for the use of a VIP aircraft, the reason why that aircraft is needed should be given. So, I ask the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman):  What are the 15 official reasons why the Governor-General had to travel to Perth in a VIP aircraft? If the GovernorGeneral abuses the use of these aircraft, his right to order a VIP aircraft should be taken from him and the right to grant the use of a VIP aircraft should remain with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Air. There is no doubt that this man has abused the system completely. No explanation has been given of the reasons for his abuse of VIP aircraft. That is all that I want to say about the matter at present. I have read the documents that have been tabled. What we should do is have the manifest setting out VIP aircraft usage tabled every month in the Senate, instead of every 6 months, so that we then can keep up with VIP aircraft usage and find out what is going on. 
When one sees the whole entourage of the Governor-General being moved from Canberra to Sydney for a luncheon, a dinner or a cocktail party, one is moved to say that the situation is monstrous. If I may say so, it is an insult to the efficiency of the Public Service. Would it not be possible to maintain a staff at Admiralty 
House which could be used also at Kirribilli House? The staff could be interchangeable. 
It might. 
I do not know. There must be a staff at this place. Could not the needs of both residences be combined and met by this staff? It would be very rare for functions to be held at both places on the same day. But everywhere we look in these documents we see that the whole entourage, including the clogs and the cats, must go to Sydney or wherever else the Governor-General goes, and then they are returned to Canberra. This may be cheaper; I do not know. But surely there must be some simpler way of entertaining in Sydney than doing this. 
I wish to raise another matter now concerning vice-royalty. Is it not time that we in Australia realised the need to remove ali our State Governors? Once upon a time there were colonies here. Apparently the States are living in the belief that they are still colonies. So, for purely snobbish purposes, we have a Governor in each State. I believe that the Governor-General should be appointed by the Queen. I do not believe it should be a political appointment. 
 Yes, 1 do. I did not say that. 1 said that he was abusing his privileges. There is no reason why he should not have the use of a VIP aircraft. I am all for it. 
No. 
The proof of the pudding will come when the reasons why the Governor-General travelled by VIP aircraft to Perth on 15 occasions are given to the Senate. What the honourable senator is saying is that he is an honest man and he did this properly. We will hear the answers eventually from the appropriate Minister. 
Yes, I certainly will. I have done that in this chamber before. If 1 am wrong I will apologise. 
I am not taking away his privileges. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DAVIDSON)-  Order!  Senator Georges,  you are out of your place. You will cease interjecting across the Senate chamber. 
Because, of our associations with Great Britain. I believe that we should maintain the office of Governor-General. But 1 believe that the Governor-General should be appointed by the Queen and not by whoever is Prime Minister. The position of GovernorGeneral has been prostituted by the appointment of politicians to get rid of them. I do not mind politicians being appointed to the office but it is different when the appointment is made to get rid of a politician. That was the reason why the present Governor-General was put in that office. This shows again how we regard the office. It is just another vacant position to which we appoint someone we wish to get rid of. I return to the 6 State Governors. Looking at the State Governors that we have had, we see that very few of them were worth having. We have  Sir Charles  Gardner, who is an admirable man,  Sir Mark  Oliphant and  Sir Roden  Cutler in New South Wales. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! I trust that the honourable senator will not reflect on  Her  Majesty's representatives. He is entitled to a free discussion, but I suggest that he should watch this line. 
I am reflecting not on Her Majesty's representatives but on the people who appoint them. We now find, right throughout Australia, retired Navy or Army people occupying these positions because they do not know what else to do. Their pension is not enough for them so they ask for these jobs. Anyone who has been in government knows that they ask someone to submit their names and suggest that they would be useful in that position, but when they are appointed they pontificate. Suddenly they become governors and suddenly they know all - even more so than Ministers. 
No, I am not reflecting on them; I am merely pointing out what is happening with them. 
No, I have not submitted my name for State governor. 
I could go there because that seems to be a pretty good spot. 
What, with Willie? To be serious about the subject, it is time that we got rid of our State governors. I think it is essential that we do so. If the State governments will not do so the Commonwealth should deduct from its grants to the States the cost of maintaining their governors.  Senator Negus  is interjecting to introduce another matter which 1 do not propose to discuss. 
I propose now to tackle the question of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Here we have a commission set up by the present Government. Nearly all the commissioners are members of the Liberal Party or are supporters ot that Party. Because the Government cannot attack the Commission we find that it attacks some unknown, undefined group in the Commission. Iti this very chamber we have cries from all sides: You can't take it.' We hear that all the time. Whenever someone makes a point the other side chips back with *You can't take it.' I say to the Government: 'You can't take it.' I know that it appears that the ABC is biased. It may appear that way because it offers so many criticisms that we could all make of the 
Government. The Government is always more vulnerable than the Opposition in regard to criticism; that is just the way it is. It is the Government and it must accept criticism. 
J would probably agree that, if anything, there is a bias to the left. 
I am saying it. I am an Independent and 1 am prepared to say exactly what I want to say. The point is that when the ABC criticises any Government supporter we hear cries that it is unfair and that it is biased. If 1 had to be interviewed on television and the interviewer were biased I hope I would have enough brains to pull him down. But Government supporters are so stupid - the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  especially. He cannot face up to any interview because he knows he just cannot cope with it. 
David Frost showed him up as a lovely old granddaddy and that is how he came over on television. I think David Frost did a remarkable job to get that impression of him, but politically it did not inspire anyone to believe that he was a Prime Minister or of Prime Minister material. 
Yes, I have. 
Very well. If people attack a person and he has any intelligence or IQ, or if he believes that there is bias, he should attack them. This can be done on television and that is what Government supporters should do. Instead, all they do is get up and cry: 'You can't take it.' It is sickening for the 3 Independents in this chamber to hear this cry from all sides. All parties do it. 
Yes, you all do it. When somebody scores a point there is always the cry. 'You can't take it.' Sometimes I have noted and commented that the person who says: 'You can't take it' is the one least able to take it. So I say to the Government: 'Do not try to alter the ABC. If you do so you will have facism in this country. That is what it will amount to.' If there is any thought of the ABC being biased it is up to the Commission to do something about it. It is not a matter for Ministers who are trying to have their images refurbished so that they will appear better and win a few votes. 
I end my speech on the Budget by saying, as I said before, that it does not matter what happens in the Budget, it does not matter one iota what has been given to everyone, what bonuses have been issued or anything else. These things do not matter in the least unless there is increased productivity. But there is nothing in the Budget to suggest any means of achieving increased productivity. If the Government really wants to improve the situation, as I said in respect of the semantic document which has just been handed out, it should raise the working hours for everyone to 40 hours a week. 

 Senator Dame NANCY BUTTFIELD (South Australia) (5.35) - I have a mixture of emotions after hearing  Senator Turnbull.  He has said that we on each side of the chamber cannot take it. He can certainly dish it out. He amuses us. It is very nice to hear him speak because he is entertaining, but he is always entertaining at someone else's expense. The whole of his speech that I have heard this evening has been a denigration of, first, the Department of Health, then the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and then one thing after another.  His  remarks do not leave me with much of a positive nature on which to comment. 
Yes, and I thought that was rather disgraceful - especially the suggestion that he was pushed out of politics. Even if that were true, he has made a jolly good job of being Governor-General. Certainly I do not begrudge him the small privilege of being allowed to have a special aircraft to fly him somewhere. He is away from his home and has a lonely existence. I, for one, would be thoroughly in favour of his having that privilege without interference from this Parliament. 
It is common knowledge that the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare has for the last 2 years been diligent in examining both particular and general aspects of social welfare in Australia. This is not the time to discuss the operations of the Committee, but I want to refer to one common thread in the Committee's work which is relevant to the debate on the 1972-73 Budget. I refer to the nature and extent of human, needs and the way in which this Budget shows that the Government has been and is aware of human needs and has introduced courageous and compassionate proposals for meeting some of those needs. Behavioural scientists often remind us that human needs fall basically into 2 main groups. On the one hand there are needs of a physical kind;' on the other there are needs of a non-physical or psychological kind. The former include the needs of people of all ages and types - old and young, weak and strong, urbanised and nomadic - for food, clothing, housing and relief from disease, pain and the crippling and disabling effects pf physical handicaps. The latter broad group of needs - 'those roughly termed psychological - concern the things of minds - peace, happiness, self-expression, knowledge and satisfying human relationships. 
The first call on any modern government is to adopt policies and programmes which meet the physical and psychological needs of its citizens. It is never possible to know all human needs; neither is it possible for any government to meet every known need; but a Government which shows its awareness of human needs and its determination to do its utmost to meet those needs is a government which is up to dale in its strategies and which has the best interests of the country at heart. This Budget manifests that type of awareness and thinking and makes provision for both the physical and psychological needs of Australians. In particular it is a Budget which, as the Treasurer, the right honourable Billy Snedden said when he introduced it, is geared to the social goals. of families. I intend to expand on those aspects of this Budget which have relevance to human needs and especially to the social goals of families - Budget aspects which clearly demonstrate that this Government is aware of its responsibilities and is best fitted to lead the country in the 1970s. 
Amongst the innovations in this Budget are 2 proposals which are particularly related to breadwinners in the family. They concern employment and, as such, are related to both physical and psycho.ogical needs - the need for the material support which flows from regular and satisfactory earning levels and the need for psychological support which flows from the sense of wellbeing and confidence which comes from doing a worthwhile task in the best possible environment. Much has been said in recent times about the effects of modern scientific and technological developments on the workforce. Australia has had a significant pattern of social mobility from the earliest days of its history, but this workforce movement has been accelerated in recent times by the rural-urban migration and also by the necessity to learn new skills. There is an inevitability about automation, for instance, which means that all workers, including those traditionally distinguished by blue or white collars, must accept change and adjust to it. Because of change there is a need for improvement in the types and quality of industrial training and in the movement of workers from one place to another as required by employment needs. 
The Budget introduces a cash subsidy scheme to promote the modern and efficient training of apprentices. It also extends training assistance to persons made redundant by technological change. In putting forward this proposal for industrial training promotion the Government has been quite realistic in recognising that there are some individuals in the 1.77 per cent of the work force who are unemployed who have had a history of such unemployment quite apart from exceptional circumstances. The needs of these individuals are for skills which can find employment in industry. These new industrial training provisions make provision for such people. Special circumstances also pertain to the employment of Aborigines, and the Government proposes to meet this special need by increasing the level of subsidy to those employers who participate in a work training scheme for Aborigines. 
No plans for the expansion of industrial training can meet with success unless there are sufficient training specialists. This need also has been recognised by the Government in its plans to encourage the employment and training of such people. For some time past the Government of Sweden has had a scheme to provide fares and resettlement allowances for workers who must seek employment and re-establish themselves in new areas because of the changes in demand for their services. The Australian Government has not yet reached the comprehensive programme developed in Sweden, but this Budget makes a decided advance in that direction. With the co-operation of the State governments it envisages the development of a viable scheme of employment settlement with responsibility for the cost of fares representing a claim on the public purse. 
The Government's policies towards housing in this Budget indicate a clear appreciation of the needs and desires of all age groups for satisfactory housing as their chief need. The proposals for an increase in grants under the Home Savings Grant Act from $500 to $750 and the raising of the maximum value of a home which may attract a grant from $17,500 to $22,500 both reflect a realistic appraisal of housing costs and the needs of young families in particular. It is worth noting that Australia has one of the highest rates of home ownership as well as one of the highest rates of housing construction in the world. About 70.8 per cent of dwellings are owner-occupied - a figure which rose by 15 per cent between 1947 and 1966 census. This rate of increase is entirely due to this Government's Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. Under the Housing Agreements, which operated for 15 years to 30th June 1971, the Commonwealth made substantial long term loans totalling more than $ 1,509m to the States for the provision of housing. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
States sphere and 91,000 have been built through building societies. The important thing to be realised is how much is due to the assistance given to building societies through the home builders fund, and the degree to which building societies have grown in Australia in the last few years. 
When one looks at the figures it is significant that in 1969-70 the savings banks were the greater lenders for housing, in that year lending money for about 61,000 homes to a value of $46 lm whereas the permanent building societies loaned money for just on 34,000 homes to a value of $36Sm. However, when one studies the figures for last year one finds that the situation has been reversed. The savings banks loaned money for 73,000 homes - 12,000 more than they did 3 years before - to a value of $656m, whereas the permanent building societies loaned money for about 52,000 homes, which was an increase of 20,000 homes, to a value of $666m. Building societies are now doing more lending than are the savings banks. The outstanding feature of this is the way that this rapid growth of permanent building societies has come about. It is a most admirable movement which should be encouraged. 1 am pleased to know that the Government, under the new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement, ' is to make 30 per cent of the allocation for housing available to building societies and other approved lending institutions. 
Another housing grant for people in need is the rental assistance grant of $1.25m a year for each of the 5 years from 1971-72 to 1975-76. This is a general Commonwealth contribution towards the cost to State housing authorities of charging reduced rents to families that they consider need this assistance. This certainly is an area of need which has been mci to a large extent. 
This Government's immigration,, policies and programmes have been of great, assistance in the building of houses. Indeed, immigration has assisted Australia's development in many ways. Australia's broad immigration policy has been supported by all political parties in Australia. Between October 1945 and June 1971 the total number of permanent and long term arrivals was 3,630,000. Of these, 1,700,000, or almost half, received some financial assistance from the Australian Government towards the cost of passage. It would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to assess the migrant contribution to the gross national product. One guess is that it has been more than $70,000m over the past 20 years. No migrant programme of the magnitude of Australia's could hope to' flow without some problems. These problems have included the much greater distances involved m travel to and within Australia by comparison with Europe. Such distances have heightened feelings of loneliness and separation - feelings which can be more acute, particularly for wives and mothers, when ignorance of the English language prevents communication with neighbours, school teachers, shop assistants and others with whom discussions often could result in more efficient and happier family life. But it also adds strains on parental relationships by reversing normal patterns, and makes mothers dependent upon their children for interpretation, explanation and communication. 
In this respect the Budget's immigration proposals take note of the extent to which migrant supported population growth serves some of the country's physical needs. They also pay attention to the psychological and spiritual needs of those newcomers to our country who are contributing to its growth and progress. An amount of $3.2m is to be appropriated specifically for migrant counselling and selection, and for English language training and migrant welfare services. This expansion of support measures for migrant families should do much to break communication barriers and to help new Australians adjust to aa environment which cannot but be alien to them at first but which can offer them exceptional opportunities for security, prosperity and happiness. Whilst congratulating the Government for its humane approach to the personal needs of migrant families, I would like to refer to the way in which our migration policies go so far towards meeting so many of the basic needs of the entire nation. 
As was made plain in the Budget, the steady growth of Australia's population continues to be a major goal of economic policy. The need for economic development and growth as a nation during the past quarter century has been met very much by our success in attracting migrants. Since 1950 Australia's population has increased from 8 million to 13 million. More than half this increase in our population has resulted from migration and the Australian born children of migrants. The need to increase the work force - it has increased from 3.4 million to 5.6 million - has been met by migrants, over half this increase being attributable to migrant workers. We need to keep a youthful population. As a great Australian economist,  Sir Douglas  Copland, pointed out, immigration has resulted in a 'younging' of our population. The reason for this is that the average age of settlers arriving here is appreciably less than the average age of the Australian population. The average age of migrants when they arrive is 24.5 years compared with 31.4 years for the overall Australian population. Immigration has helped to provide both impetus and means for the continued sound growth of the Australian economy in the face of widely varying and often adverse events in the world markets so important to us. 
Migrants have played a major role in servicing key industries. The latest census figures available show that more than onehalf of the men engaged on electric power works and transmission lines are migrants; that one-third of the men engaged on water supply and sewerage are migrants, and that from one-third to one-half of those engaged in building and building materials industries are migrants. Many other similarly impressive examples could be cited. Migrants have strongly reinforced our educational facilities, particularly at tertiary levels. One third of the university staff is migrants. It is a further measure of the contributions of migrants to little publicised but vital areas of our national activity that almost one half of the members of the Australian Academy of Science were born overseas. There are other fields where migrants have helped significantly. For example, they have added proportionately more to the work* force which finances our social services than they have added to the population supported by these social services. In addition, the majority has received all or most of its educational and vocational training overseas. This has meant a significant saving to Australia. At the same time it has enabled migrants to make an immediate and positive contribution to the national economy. 
It is in the knowledge of this that the Government has again emphasised its intention to continue the active migration policies which have served us so well. The immigration programme for 1972-73 takes full account both of our immediate needs and our longer term national interests. It is in harmony with the realities of the present situation. We can be confident that, as in the past, the flow of migrant worker arrivals will be related, in numbers and types, to the changing patterns of our labour needs. At the same time this programme will ensure the continued viability of our migration activities in migrant source countries important to us. It will therefore mean that, as and when the need arises. further migrants from these countries will be forthcoming for Australia, which is very important as so much iri the field of migrant availability depends on goodwill and trust between governments, countries and people. The decisions for the current financial year have been taken within the framework of a far reaching series of measures by the Government. 
So often we hear - particularly from Opposition senators - of the need to plan ahead in the field of migration. We have evidence of the Government's policy with regard to such planning. Australia is one of the few countries in the world to have commissioned far reaching population studies on which its future policies as a nation can be based. At no time during the past quarter of a century has immigration been regarded as an end in itself. It has always been recognised to be an essential instrument of broader policies. Initially these policies were expressed in terms of a desirable population growth rate of 2 per cent per annum. To achieve this overall rate of growth an immigration target of one per cent was set. It was never a rigid commitment but, in fact, our overall population growth rate has been around this level for most of the time. We have reached the stage where Australia has a range of population options now open to it. Because of this, a re-examination of our objectives is both feasible and timely. 
The population studies foreshadowed by the then Minister for Immigration in July 1970 are now well under way. They are on such a scale as to require a 3-year programme of research spread over the years 1971 to 1973. The terms of reference for this research take into account not only desirable population levels at different points between now and the end of the century but also the desirable patterns of distribution of those population levels. Both economic and non-economic considerations - for example, environmental factors and resource utilisation - are being studied. The situation in countries with which Australia has particularly close associations by reason of migration, trade, political affairs or geographical juxtaposition are other factors which are being taken into account. The Government has also commissioned a cost-benefit analysis of immigration under current Australian conditions. This, too, is in progress. A major study into the actual experiences of migrants in Australia is being developed by the Department of Immigration in conjunction with the Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
In other fields of migration, significant studies and investigations are also in progress. In the Immigration Advisory Council, for example, we are deeply involved in work relating to migrant integration. The Council has 3 standing committees, namely, the Committee on Social Patterns under the chairmanship of Professor George Zubrzycki, the Committee on Migrant Education under the chairmanship of  Dr Sam  Richardson, and the Committee on Citizenship under the chairmanship of  Mr George  Hastie. The work of the Advisory Council and its committees has provided much of the information on which the Government has based its immigration policies and programmes. Directly and indirectly, the Government has sponsored and initiated a considerable breadth of research into all aspects of immigration and population policies. For example, the Department of immigration, in addition to undertaking its own research has subsidised studies of the Australian Council of Educational Research and the Academy of Social Sciences in Australia. This has been done in clear recognition of the need to look far beyond the present to the Australia of the future. Yet in doing so the Government has not ignored the exigent present. Australia's immigration programme for 1972- 73 is, therefore, in harmony both with our present needs and our future aspirations. 
The Government recognises the prime importance to migrants of the need for suitable housing and accommodation on arrival. In 1967 a broad plan to improve the standard of transitory accommodation for migrants was introduced. The Commonwealth's objective has been to make available flats that are broadly comparable in standard and rental with flats being provided to the community at large by State housing authorities. Since most families do not have their own personal household effects with them on arrival not only are the flats fully furnished but also all necessary household equipment, including linen and cutlery, is provided. The rent charged includes an element to cover the furniture and equipment. Flats are dispersed throughout the community. Their locations are chosen carefully for convenient access to shops, schools and transport services and to provide reasonable proximity to centres of employment. It is significant to point out that since the introduction of this scheme in 1967 a total of 2,453 units have been built and 10,494 persons from 33 nations have been housed in them. The average stay in these flats is 19 weeks. 
I cannot leave the Budget without some recognition of the Government's splendid record in moving ever forward towards meeting the needs of those dependent on social welfare. Basic pension rates have been raised, special provisions have been made for the ailing aged and still more steps have been taken to eliminate the means test within 3 years. The Government has been mindful of the obligations of society to the aged and it has encouraged and subsidised those institutions and organisations which have undertaken programmes of assistance for the aged. My own State of South Australia, under the Playford Government, was a pioneer in assessing the need for aged persons homes and in making those needs known to the Commonwealth Government. Some bold experiments in providing homes for the aged in South Australia have attracted attention from welfare workers at home and overseas. Since 1954 the Commonwealth Government has provided gen erous assistance towards the provision of homes for aged persons. More recently it has taken steps to improve both nursing home and domiciliary facilities for the frail aged. Proposals in the 1972-73 Budget anticipate further new integrated measures for chronically ill patients in nursing homes and the assistance of aged infirm people who can be looked after in a home environment. This, to my mind, is the most important step forward in the entire field of social welfare. No amount of money or beds can replace the need of aged people to be loved and wanted within the family circle. The provision of $14 a week to families which maintain their senior members in the home is indeed praiseworthy and should provide added incentive to family responsibility. In passing I wish also to praise the Government for having raised the $2 a week special supplementary assistance for rental to single pensioners to $4 a week and extending it to married people. 
Before completing my speech 1 wish to make reference to a question that I asked of the ': Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  today about the need for British justice to be available to every Australian citizen regardless of social or economic status or age. He indicated to me that the legislation which has been passed by this Parliament endeavours to minimise the necessity for legal opinion to make it clear. That was not my main reason for asking the question. So often people are called upon to protect their innocence or their legal rights and the cost of obtaining legal opinion and representation in the courts is quite beyond the means of so many people. It is for that reason that I make the suggestion that perhaps some sort of insurance scheme would make it possible for people to feel that British justice is within their reach. 
There are many other areas of need which have been given generous attention in the Budget that will both stimulate the economy, inculcate confidence and reduce disparities and differences in the community. These 'other areas' include much better personal income tax concessions and rate reductions, easing of estate and gift duties, sizable grants for a wide range of education services and provisions for non-profit , child care centres, about which I offer  a '  warning to plan and administer well and with great care and wisdom for grave dangers lie therein. The 70 per cent increase in aggregate expenditure on Aboriginal advancement, forms of assistance to road safety, tourist attractions and generous grants to many organisations serving the Australian community all add up to a determined attempt to Use available Australian resources to meet human needs in ways and means consistent with the times in which we live and consistent with the broad national approach of my Party, the invincible Liberal Party of Australia. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration a question which has no political overtones. I hope that I do not receive an answer with political overtones, as I am seeking information. As the Government allowed the South African rugby team to tour and compete in Australia on the basis that sport and politics should be separated, why is it . that 2 Rhodesian golfers have been refused admission to Australia for sporting purposes? 
I rise to speak only because, listening to question time, I was appalled by the attitude of the Senate to what can be regarded only as one of the most serious acts of terrorism in Australia for many years. The debate has continued along the same lines. Any of us could have been in Sydney. Any of us could have been one of the 15 or 16 who were injured. Any of us could have had our legs amputated. All parties in the Senate today have been trying to score a point off the opposite side by saying that somebody is or is not a member of the Ustasha or is a Hannanite, a Hitlerite or something else. That is all that has been happening so far today. 
The only sincere words I heard from  Senator Hannan  were his concluding remarks that he hoped the Government would take firm action. That is what we want. We want firm action. It does not matter on which side of the Senate we are sitting. We should not be trying to attack each other in an attempt to score political points in regard to the bomb outrage. I think it is disgusting. The time spent here today so far, both at question time and during the debate, has been wasted. 
We had to listen to 2 different aspects of the history of Yugoslavia.  Senator McManus  gave us one which I thought was exceedingly good and a somewhat different type of history from that given by  Senator Hannan.  I was not sure whether the 2 senators were referring to the same country. Whichever history we accept, both of them unconsciously created the atmosphere behind what has happened here. Whether we accept  Senator McManus's  history of Croatia, its origins and its mergence into Yugoslavia or  Senator Hannan's  history of Croatia, both historical aspects of the country show that the people who live there are prepared to commit any outrage to get an independent Croatia. As they are unable to do it in Croatia, they are trying to use some of their methods here. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  kept repeating: 'Is it or is it not due to Croatian terrorists?' Who else would do it? 
No, I do not know. Let us have a reasonable guess. 
I have not any evidence, but who would be doing it? 
Members of the Government would be the only people in Australia who would ask such a question. They say that the media is completely wrong; that each paper is against the Government and the Attorney-General. Everyone agrees on that. The Government says that the media is biased. That is its answer. That is all it can say. The media reflects the opinion of the country, and that is that there is is a terrorist organisation here. I do not care what we call it; there are individuals here who are terrorists. 
Forget the dockers. I am not interested in them. 
There may have been 4 killings there. That shows pretty poor police work when they cannot find the culprits. Those shootings have nothing to do with the bomb outrage. They are a separate entity and a separate problem - a problem that should be solved on its own. 
The whole country, except the Democratic Labor Party and the Liberal Party, believes that the bombings are the work of a terrorist organisation. It may be just a few people, but it is a terrorist organisation. I do not care what we call it. It has to be stamped out before it goes any further. It is no good the Attorney-General saying- 
 I would deport every Croatian who was on the suspect list. I could not care less. 
The honourable senator wants me to be a dictator. I am prepared to be one. 
I did not say that they were fascists. I am trying to point out that here we have- 
All right, I am all talk. The whole country is talk. I am saying exactly what the majority is saying. 
I do not think, 1 know. Go out and talk to them. Do not sit in your little office being a big Minister all the time and having your servants coming around saying: 'You are right  Mr Minister'.  So the Minister thinks he is right. Go out and talk to the people. If he does he will see that everyone agrees. Go out to the Press, which represents the people. When there is a unanimous- 
Their shareholders? Are they on the side of the people? The honourable senator is bringing the Press into the dispute. The shareholders are supporting the Government, yet every newspaper in this country says this. When One gets a unanimous opinion on this, I am happy to think it is right. The opinion of the Attorney-General expressed by the Melbourne 'Herald' was: The other day upon the stair I met a man who wasn't there. He wasn't there again today, oh how I wish he'd go away.' 
Opposition Senators - The AttorneyGeneral has just re-entered the chamber. 
It is about time. He should have stayed in the chamber all the time for this debate. Do not accuse me of attacking him when he is not here. I cannot help if he is not here. I have been here long enough today to listen to the debate. Finally, we come to the Opposition's motion. 
We would like police evidence. The whole of the population is waiting for some police evidence. There is no police evidence at all. Apparently the police are as incompetent in this regard as they are in trying to find this man, whatever his name is. Anybody else can find him, apparently; he can produce tapes and he can go to television shows, but the police cannot find him because they do not want to find him. 
I do not know his name; I am not even interested in him. I have cited him as an example. I support the motion, though I would prefer that the Government appoint a royal commission to investigate this matter. That is what is needed. But since we cannot order a royal commission from here I believe that if we support the motion it will force the Government to act because the moment the Senate sets up a committee to consider any subject at all, the Government promptly sets up a committee of its own to inquire into it.  Senator Marriott  interjected. I would like him to repeat his interjection because I may not have heard it correctly. 
All right, it is not the truth- 
But it is partially the truth. Take the Repatriation Commission and the repatriation reference of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. When the Government knows that it is in the wrong, it knows it is to be attacked, it sets up a committee of its own. The same thing will happen in this case. If we pass this motion the Government will set up a royal commission as sure as fate. That is why 1 am supporting the motion. When the Government says that such a committee being formed by members of Parliament would not know what it was investigating, I recall that the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange did a good job, from the evidence I have heard. I have not seen that Committee's final report, hut it did a lot of investigating and asked many questions and it did a magnificent job. Therefore, why would not this proposed committee, on which the Government would have a loaded majority, also not do a good job? It is no good the Government saying that the committee would be an unsuitable vehicle for this inquiry. What is wrong with it? 1 would go further and urge the setting up of a royal commission. But if we cannot have a royal commission, then let us have this committee. Therefore I support the motion, and I hope to heaven that for a change we can get on with the job of this Parliament instead of trying to score political points as we so often do. 
I am not interested in the coming election. I am not standing for re-election and I could not care less. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Air in regard to the VIP aircraft. In view of the fact that a commercial aircraft left Melbourne for Canberra at 7.25 a.m. yesterday, does he not believe that he had no justification for authorising a VIP aircraft to pick up himself and another Minister in Melbourne and bring them to Canberra  when the commercial flight was so handy? 
 Senator Greenwood. 
The matter which I wish to raise concerns the aviation company called Jetair Pty Ltd. Honourable senators will recall that I have asked some questions in regard to this matter over a period of 18 months. I almost let my interest drop until I found what I thought was an injustice had been done to  Senator Georges  when he was expelled from this chamber for raising this matter of Jetair. I felt that the facts as I knew them should therefore be placed before this chamber because there is no doubt whatsoever that there has been a series of remarkable coincidences, if we can put it that way, that linked the then former Minister for Foreign Affairs, the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  with this company. 
There are 2 aspects which require looking into. First of all there is the granting of a licence by the Department of Civil Aviation to Jetair which was quite contrary to the Government's 2-airline policy. Secondly, there is the question of the purchase of aircraft from Jetair when that company had become bankrupt - or it might have been not bankrupt but in a serious financial position. Jetair was saved to the tune of $250,000 by the present Government which purchased the DC3 aircraft from it instead of using its own Royal Australian Air Force planes. It is obvious that when Jetair went into this business it must have been given the nod by somebody, otherwise it would not have gone into the business. People do not go into an unprofitable business unless they see some profit in the future. Suddenly Jetair was granted a licence to carry passengers to certain areas of New South Wales. 
Of course, one can rationalise anything. It was quite easy to rationalise that this was a good thing for the people of New South Wales. So that company was given the licence. Other people have been refused a licence for cargo carrying, but Jetair was granted a licence for carrying passengers. I think that this alone requires delving into. We should ascertain why this company was given permission to carry passengers because if it had been successful obviously it would have gone further and become a third airline. There is no doubt about that. Anyone with any business acumen would realise that that would be the position. 
Jetair was refused permission by the Department of Civil Aviation to purchase 2 bigger planes other than the DC3 aircraft which it had purchased. But the company had tendered for them and had hoped to get these extra planes so as to be ready to carry on as the third airline. However, that aspect was blocked. 
We then come to the second part of the problem, the innumerable coincidences that occurred in regard to the purchasing of 6 DC3 aircraft from Jetair when that company was in a very serious financial position and the sum of $250,000 meant something to it. The Commonwealth bought the 6 DC3 aircraft to fulfil, what I was told in answer to a question, an urgent decision that the Department of Foreign Affairs had made to give aircraft as foreign aid to certain countries such as the Khmer Republic, Nepal and Laos. I asked for the dates on which the first request by Khmer Republic had been given, or the date of the first suggestion by our Department of Foreign Affairs to the Khmer Republic that we would like to give them, aid in the form of DC3s. The only date given to me - and honourable senators may remember that we also had the similar problem as to whether we were invited into Vietnam or not - was the date on which the Khmer Republic officially accepted these planes. We cannot solve the problem as to whether we offered the planes to these people or whether they asked for them because the dates I asked for have not been given to me. As I said, the only reply given to me in regard to dates was the date on which the Khmer Republic officially accepted these planes. 
A year later I again asked for the dates. I got the same evasive answer which did not give me the date on which we had offered the planes to that country or the date on which it had made the request. Again I was told when the offer was formally accepted. But the point about this date - and I think that this is most important - is that the date on which the Khmer Republic formally accepted the offer of the Australian Government was 2 days after the Department of Foreign Affairs had agreed to purchase the planes from Jetair. Tn other words, if the Khmer Republic had said that it did not want these planes what was the Government going to do with them? 
There is still more to this because this whole matter was based on urgency. I was informed in replies that I have from the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that the matter of giving aid in the form of aircraft to Laos and Nepal had been more or less circulated around the departments for a period of 2 years. Then the picture changed and the Khmer Republic suddenly wanted 5 planes. Did we offer them or were they asked for? We still do not know. 
Another remarkable coincidence was that the planes were purchased by the Commonwealth at a time when this company was financially embarrassed. I am informed that the then Minister in charge of Foreign Affairs, the present Prime Minister, is a very close friend of a director of Jetair. That may or may have no significance  -  I do not know. But it is another coincidence in the picture. As a man- 
Oh, right. He could be. I am not disputing that. He could be even a friend of the honourable senator. But I have it on good authority - actually I corroborate this when I heard that he was a friend of a director; I made sure of this - that he did have a friend. 
Well, a bit laboured. Nevertheless he was a friend of a director. When the matter came to the Department of Foreign Affairs without reference to Cabinet the then Minister for 
Foreign Affairs endorsed the papers to purchase these planes. We have been told that he is a good administrative officer. If he knew his departments he should have known that that was not the way to purchase planes, that the people who purchase the planes are officers of the Department of Supply. 
The picture then moves over to Supply which promptly said: 'Hey, wait a minute, you cannot do that here. You have to call tenders'. Ah, but there is an urgency about this matter - a great urgency. So Supply rationalised the whole procedure by saying: Oh well, perhaps it would be just as cheap to buy aircraft from Jetair as it would be to repair and do up Royal Australian Air Force planes that are available and ready for disposal'. So the Department of Supply said: 'OK, go ahead, that is ail right, the cost is probably negligible'. But we have not been able to ascertain how the Department worked out the cost of fixing up these planes. AH we know is that it would have cost $15,000 to repair them, However, we do not know what it would have cost to alter their configuration. 
Let us get back to the question of urgency and the fact that we had to buy 6 planes. For 2 years the matter of whether we were to give these aircraft had been shambled around the Department. These 6 RAAF aircraft in military configuration were available and ready to go to Laos and Nepal. I presume that the Khmer Republic then asked for their aircraft. We already had the 5 RAAF aircraft ready for Nepal and Laos. They were in military configuration. That was the type of plane that the Khmer Republic had asked for, one in military configuration. 
So all that had to be done was to switch these 5 aircraft to the Khmer Republic instead of sending them to Nepal and Laos. Instead of that, the Government bought 6 aircraft - not 5 as requested but 6  -  because Jetair had 6 aircraft and so we obligingly took over the whole 6 for them although the Khmer Republic needed only 5. But these aircraft were in civilian configuration and therefore of no value to the Khmer Republic. But do not forget that the matter was urgent. It was grave urgency that made the Minister for Foreign Affairs forget his drill and purchase these aircraft immediately without going through the rigmarole of calling tenders through the Department of Supply. So we had 6 aircraft in civilian configuration purchased for the Khmer Republic which asked for aircraft in military configuration. We still have other aircraft. 
The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  says that I am talking nonsense. In due course, the Minister can show that I am talking nonsense, and he is entitled to his opinion. I could give him my opinion of him but no doubt,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you would not allow that. As I say, 6 aircraft in civilian configuration were purchased for the purpose of sending them to the Khmer Republic which asked for aircraft in military configuration. Admittedly, 5 of them could be used and switched over from Nepal and Laos which originally, 2 or 3 years ago, asked, or we suggested, that they should have the aircraft. But why did the Government send the extra, the sixth, aircraft to the Khmer Republic which asked for 5? It was sent the sixth aircraft in civilian configuration because the Government had to get rid of it. I presume that the Khmer Republic received it as a bonus. It goes to show that in dealing with public moneys we have to be over careful.  may be completely wrong in this matter. Of course, the proof of the pudding will be in the papers. I would suggest that these papers be tabled. There is nothing that the Government has to hide because, according to the Minister, I am talking arrant nonsense. Therefore, the Government will have the proof, in the papers, of the fact that I am talking arrant nonsense. I can assure honourable senators that if they read the papers they will see in them that there is an endorsement by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs of the purchase of these aircraft without reference to Cabinet or to the Department of Supply. This is in his own handwriting. Show us these papers. There is nothing secret about them. There is nothing secret about our foreign aid to these countries. If it is a good thing to give them aircraft, let us get rid of our aircraft. But the RAAF has even more aircraft that could have been disposed of. They could have been converted to civilian configuration and used as such without having to purchase the aircraft from this company to help it out of its financial difficulties. 
Out of the 50 DC3 aircraft sold in Australia over the past few years, only one has ever reached the price that the Government paid for these DC3 aircraft from Jetair. In other words, we also paid through the nose for them. There are many DC3 aircraft lying around the country that people would be happy practically to give away. But no, we are so generous to our friends that we look after them and when they are in trouble we help them out. lt is a good- 
The price is as in civilian configuration. 
Yes, 1 know, because then J would miss you would I not? Your company would be lost to me. The proof of all this is in the papers. The Government can easily prove me a liar. Table the papers; that is all I am asking. 
Very well: table the papers. There is nothing secret in them. If the Government does not want to table them 1 think that the only thing to do is to have a motion passed that they be tabled. I remember that the same thing happened in relation to the VIP aircraft. The Government said that the manifests could not be tabled and that they were secret, secret, secret. But the Government tabled them when it found out that the Senate was to move for their tabling. They were soon tabled, and there was really nothing in them.. The Government can prove it, this time. Honourable senators still have to ask questions. I would like to know, when the Minister rises to reply, the date on which the Khmer Republic requested these aircraft or the date on which we offered them - not the date it formally accepted them, which is the only date the Minister has given me. There are other questions that could be asked about them. What was the reason for the urgency of the purchase? Perhaps it could have been the invasion into the Khmer Republic and this may have, by sheer coincidence, happened at the right time. But it still does not excuse the Government. We all like to help our friends, but not by using public moneys. The fact is that in this case by a remarkable coincidence the Government suddenly wanted aircraft of the wrong configuration when it had aircraft of the correct configuration which could not be handed over straight away. 
I think it is a serious matter. I have been trying to get to the bottom of it.  I  could never do so and I. gave up in despair about finding out the truth. As I said. I feel that unjust criticism was made of  Senator Georges'  remarks. Perhaps he should not have made them. Perhaps he was quite rightfully suspended from the chamber. Nevertheless, he was giving us the facts and I feel that in sheer justice to him I. should give the facts that I know. I think the Government is- 
I think that it is a coincidence. I have not inferred it. They are remarkably coincidences. Obviously, I did not because I would have been suspended also. 
I am saying that the facts are these: We offered the aircraft to the Khmer Republic. I cannot prove that, but that is what I think happened. 
1 cannot prove anything until the Government tables the papers. 
All right. An honourable senator asks who owns Jetair.  I  do not know who owns it. It  is  a public company, but there is a man called Barton. It is not Gordon Barton. 
That is right.  It is  Alexander Barton. There  is  another man.  I  do not want  to  bring names into  it but 
Barton's name has been brought into it, I will not bring the other name into it. If honourable senators want me to, I will mention it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! A very interesting conversation is being conducted. But  Senator Turnbull  what you are supposed to be doing is addressing the Chair. Would you please address your remarks to the Chair. 
 I would be only too happy to name the only other director I know, who is a great friend of the present Prime Minister. If honourable senators want me to 1 will be only too happy to do it. There are coincidences. If I am completely wrong and making improper suggestions the Government can disprove them immediately by tabling the papers, lt is too scared to do so. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. A national seminar on Aboriginal health services held in May this year made many recommendations. Four months later I ask the Minister: Which of these recommendations have been implemented. As the Minister is sure to ask for further information, will he ask the Acting Minister for Health to issue a White Paper or statement of the Government's proposals so that those who are interested in the subject may be informed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Were the following aircraft purchased from Jetair Australia Ltd VH-EQN. VH-EQO, VH-EQB, VH-BUR, VH-TAI, VH-SBN, if so, on. what dates were each of these aircraft delivered and to whom. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following information to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. The dates the aircraft were delivered were supplied to the honourable senator on 16th May 1972 (Hansard page 1653). The destinations of the aircraft were: 
Nepal- Two aircraft (VH-EQN and VHBUR) delivered on 18th August 1971. 
Laos- Three aircraft (VH-EQO. VH-EQB and VH-TAI) delivered on 26th September 1971. 
Khmer Republic- One aircraft (VH-SBN) delivered on 5th September 1971. 
I never realised until tonight that hypocrisy was a ribald matter for discussion such as has gone on in this chamber tonight. The tragedy of the Senate is that whenever any humanitarian project is mooted in this place, time and time again during the 10 years I have been here a social benefit which could be given to the people has been defeated by the jealousies of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the Australian Labor Party. 
All right, just let me finish my speech. I am pointing out that time and time again- 
What I was doing in Devonport is solely my own business and is no concern of any honourable senator. 
Yes, it is a good business and at least it is an honest business. If I happen to be away from this chamber and do not vote it is because I see the futility of voting on some measures when we have the stupidity of 2 parties voting against each other in the belief that one can gain a little bit of credit against the other one. Both parties are equally to blame. If the Labor Party moves something the Democratic Labor Party will oppose it. and vice versa. Both parties are to blame. 
-I am here enough to know what goes on. This is what has happened time and time again. Tonight I would not have spoken except for the continuation of this hypocrisy.  Senator McManus,  for whom I have great affection, made a speech whichI thought was the most hypocritical speech I have heard. 
First of all he said that this is an electioneering matter.  Senator Negus  is not standing for election. If any man could bemarked for sincerity in regard to his subject - and this is his subject- 
I do not care. But  Senator Negus  moved an amendment and he did not do so for electioneering purposes. He believes in it. All these other honourable senators believe in this but they are too scared to vote for it.  Senator McManus  also said that the Australian Democratic Labor Party is not going to support the amendment because there are other factors in the legislation which will be held up. That is not so. There are another 10 days in this session.I have seen a Bill whipped through here in 10 minutes. 
I am not talking about the Bill in relation to salaries. But I have seen a Bill passed through here in relation to Australian Capital Territory regulations.It did not take the Government long to introduce that Bill when, on the previous day, it found that it had lost certain power. Any of the items which will be held up if we carry this amendment can be rectified in the next week. There is no problem there. Then  Senator McManus  went on - this hurt me - to point out that the Australian Labor Party, when it finds that certain aspects of a Bill will be defeated if it keeps up its opposition, turns round the next time the Bill comes into this chamber and votes for it. Let me remind honourable senators that 2 years ago when 1 moved 2 amendments, which the Democratic Labor Party supported, in relation to the National Health Bill, the next day the DLP voted against those amendments for the very reason which  Senator McManus  says the Labor Party is now adopting. If that is not hypocrisy, what is? Could we have a bit of sincerity in this matter? 
Do we or do we not believe in this measure? Do we believe that hardship will be caused? If we do we will vote for the amendment. Do we believe that some people may make a claim and be disappointed? Everyone claims deductions in relation to income tax and they are often disappointed. But that does not mean that we do not allow these things. For heaven's sake, let us have a bit of sincerity. This is a humane factor which affects people, especially Australian Country Party supporters. The ribald laughter which comes from the benches around me amazes me because these people are affected more than anyone else. They are the people who face the greatest hardship. 
All right, abolish it. Honourable senators can do that if they want to. They talk with their tongue in their cheek all the damn time. Get up and abolish it. There is no reason why the honourable senator should not. He has been in the chamber for so long and he gets up and makes sniggering little remarks all the time - snigger, snigger, snigger - that we have to abolish it. Well, abolish k. The Government can do that if it wants to. If it thinks that the Labor Party will not support it that will not matter because it will have the DLP on side and even the independent honourable senators might support it. But I ask the Government to stop this damn hypocrisy it goes on with. I say to the Government that it is time that we stopped all this rot in regard to humanitarian matters which face this chamber. It is time that we got together and did something for the people and not what is best for our Party so that we can be one up on the other Party. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the non-inclusion of contraceptive pills in the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme due to a decision of the Pharmaceutical Advisory Committee or to the Government. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As the honourable senator is aware, nodrug or medicinal preparation may be made available as a pharmaceutical benefit without a recommendation to that effect from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. 
The Committee has made no recommendation to list oral contraceptives as a pharmaceutical benefit. 
 I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is there any truth in the rumour that the Department of Health is about to publish a list of the names of doctors who have allegedly benefited themselves by falsifying medical benefit items? Have these falsifications been investigated and confirmed by departmental committees of inquiry? 
For the purpose of clarification,  I  ask a question of the Minister who represents the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security. I think that many people are as confused as  I  am. Where is the demarcation between the 2 portfolios?  I  asked a question concerning the Department of Health and was told that it was a matter concerning the Minister for Social Security. Could the position be explained?  I  am not trying to disparage anyone.  I  would like to have this matter cleared up in order to ascertain where the responsibility of one Department ends and the responsibility of the other one begins. If a question is asked concerning the Department of Health,  I  presume that it will be answered by the Minister for Health. If not, why not abolish the Health portfolio? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I have listened to this debate and it is not only a non-event, it is a mockery. I add my word of wisdom. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
My question without notice is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Now that the lethargy of the previous Government has been overcome, will the Minister ask the Prime Minister when Australia can learn when this Government proposes to commence the building of a new Parliament House instead of the present costly accretions we see around us? 
-I will oppose the motion. I think that this debate has brought no honour or glory to this chamber. In fact, I suggest that after any public function this chamber should not sit for at least 12 hours. We have been listening to a debate apparently on a matter of urgency. Why is it urgent? No reason has yet been given. 
Come off it. Sena  tor Gair says I was not here. When I am here 
I am awake and I have my faculties. We have reached the point where, because numbers count in this chamber, we are pushing through for our friend and colleague the motion which the Australian Democratic Labor Party wishes to get through while the proceedings are being broadcast. 
If that is not true, a reason should be given as to why this matter is so urgent. Can any member of the Democratic Labor Party tell me why it is so urgent that it could not be debated on Thursday night? May I suggest to those honourable men that they themselves withdraw this motion because, after all, it is not a question of doing justice to any individual, whether he is a communist or not. Justice has to appear to be done, and this has not the appearance of justice. We are invited to force this through and members of the Democratic Labor Party knew, or should have known, that there was a court case tomorrow. This had to be prised out by a Government senator. 
I do not know. Perhaps  Senator Cant  was not telling the truth. All I can say is that the respect to which members of the DLP are entitled would be enhanced if they withdrew their motion and debated this matter at another time, in its proper place, instead of forcing it through. It now appears to the whole of Australia that they are using the forms of this chamber to help one of their own side. Is that fair? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call  Senator McManus.  Before  Senator McManus  rises, I see that  Senator Negus,  whose name appears on the list of speakers, has not risen. It is necessary for an honourable senator to rise in his place in order to get the call from the Chair. I now call  Senator Negus. 
I direct a question  to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. Why does the Government still allow Qantas Airways Ltd to disregard the interests of travellers by its refusal to permit cheaper air fares by the system of advanced bookings on the most popular direct Sydney-London route whereas it allows this system for travellers to the United States of America? Will the Government insist on Qantas serving the interests of the public before the interests of the International Air Transport Association? 
It is very rarely that I get up to make a congratulatory speech. In fact, this is only the second occasion on which I have done so. I do so only when I think the person concerned deserves it. I cannot give  Senator Wood  any higher praise than that. The only other person about whom I have spoken in this way was the late  Senator Hannaford.  Not only does Australia owe a lot to  Senator Wood;  I also owe him a lot. I can remember the reason why I became a mem ber of this chamber. It was because of  Senator Wood's  attitude towards the government of the day. He was right in opposing its views on the economy. I can remember many honourable senators who sat on his side of the chamber ostracising him, sending him to Coventry, because he was prepared to stick up for what he believed to be right and voted accordingly. There were other honourable senators in this chamber who sat near him who said they were going to vote against the government of the day but who never did so when the crunch came. I admired  Senator Wood  for doing that. I have always admired him for his independence. He should be sitting in this corner of the chamber with the 3 Independents and not where he is sitting at present. 1 have never been a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Until recently Independent senators were not appointed to committees. But I soon realised from sitting in this chamber that whenever  Senator Wood  said a regulation should be disallowed he was advocating the correct procedure. 1 have never known him to be wrong, I must pay him a tribute for that. I think that not only the political parties - the Australian Country Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, the Liberal Party of Australia and so on - but also the whole of Australia owes a great debt of gratitude to  Senator Wood  for the independent attitude he adopted as  Chairman  of the Committee, for what he has done and for the troubles he has had to suffer at the hands of, especially, his so-called friends because he has been independent. I wish to thank him for what he had done. 
I want to speak now because I think that one should speak early in the debate before we get swamped in this chamber with all the crocodile tears that are flowing from our friends in the Opposition at the moment in regard to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and what the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  is supposed to have done.  Senator Rae  made a plea to find out why this was done, why that was done and so on. There should be no need to ask those questions because every one in Australia knows exactly why this was done. It was done because of the attitude of the former AttorneyGeneral whose credibility in this chamber is practically nil at the present time. It was because of his actions that the present AttorneyGeneral had to take action to get the information. All this nonsense we hear- 
I am so pleased that  Senator Rae  is going to work on his report because we have been waiting for that report for so long, I had to listen to his trash. If he thinks that I am talking trash, at least he should sit there and take it. Trash for trash, if that is his opinion. We are wondering why the Attorney-General had to do things at midnight. I do not know what is so particularly sinister about midnight. It happened to be a time that suited the people. The whole of Australia knows that the reason why the Attorney-General had to go and interfere with the affairs of ASIO was that ASIO was not doing its job by the Australian people. 
If the AttorneyGeneral thought ASIO was doing a good job, he is entitled to his opinion; it is not my opinion. I do not think ASIO was doing a good job. When ASIO has an AttorneyGeneral who allows it to get away with what appears in the statement to which I am not allowed to refer, then obviously ASIO is not doing a good job. 
It is unfortunate for me that I should be speaking at night when  Senator Little  is awake. Usually he is asleep. This reminds me that I must speak in the afternoon. As far as the pubic is concerned ASIO may have done a good job, but it was subservient to the Liberal Government of the day and it did not take into account the interests of Australia; it took into account the interests of the Government. That is obvious from all the facts which have appeared in the newspapers. This is what has happened. If anyone had any right to interfere it was the present Attorney-General because the previous one was so cowardly that he did not interfere, or if he was not too cowardly to interfere in the affairs of ASIO, he should be dismissed from this House as a traitor to this country for allowing this to go on. He knew the facts but he preferred to allow people- 
I am going to speak very little on the question of Croatian terrorism because everyone in this chamber has spoken ad nauseam for 2 days about that subject and whether  an  honourable senator says one thing or the other simply depends on which side of the House he is sitting. What disturbs me is the smell of death in this chamber, of people waiting to kill. One can sort of smell this atmosphere of hate which is pervading this chamber and emanating from certain members on the Opposition benches. Of course they have the numbers. It is like the vultures- 
Why am I going, to cry? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poyser)  - Order!  Senator Turnbull  will address the Chair. 
I object to  Senator Hannan  interjecting when he is not in his seat. The Democratic Labor Party- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! 
The Democratic Labor Party senators sit over here. 
All right. Everyone regards you as a spy in the Liberal Party for the DLP - and you know it. 
Let me go on with my speech. I  did  not interrupt your nonsensical talk. 
That is all right; I was not on rounds this afternoon. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Turnbull  will address the Chair. 
This hatred which is evident in this chamber has been apparent for 2 days. You can notice it; you can see the venom drooling out of their mouths as they wait for the kill. They are waiting and thinking: 'We have got him, we have got the numbers'. It is a numbers game, is it not? We all know that that is so in politics. Now Opposition senators have got something they can triumph on, so they are going to kill someone. He hurt your side, so you are going to hurt his side. So you have the numbers and you are going to get him irrespective of whether thereis any right or wrong. You will do it irrespective of the status of the Senate - and you are doing it irrespective of the harm that you are causing to a member of our Government who is to go abroad shortly under the stigma that he does not have the confidence of this Senate. 
What trip have I got? 
All right. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Turnbull,  I would like you not to be distracted by the interjections and to address the Chair. 
I will try to do so,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I come to the question that the Senate has no confidence in the Attorney-General. Let me say that I have every confidence in the Attorney-General. And let me say that I do not agree with everything he did and that I deplore the results of what he did. I believe that in this chamber we have 2 men who are equally good and sincere, one who has held and the other who holds one of the highest offices - the Attorney-Generalship - and yet here certain honourable senators are denigrating both. I say to Opposition senators: You want to perpetuate this, you want this to continue. You have the numbers here, but you forget that you do not have the numbers In the other House and that a similar debate will go on over there with the position reversed - and they will kill you in that House because they have the numbers. This is the hatred that you like. This is what you want to stir up. Your avowed policy in regard to anyone who has anything to do with communism is that you will as parties support each other against him - because each of your 3 groups on that side would sink if you did not have- 
Have I said anything nasty about anyone in the chamber apart from your own people? 
If I have not been kind, you deserved it. 
OK. Everyone is entitled to his opinion and I am expressing mine. I am entitled to express my opinion here and I intend to do so. I am pointing out that what you will do by passing this motion is to continue the debate. You will not stop it and it will become a game and we shall see denigration; and this time, of course, it will be denigration of the former AttorneyGeneral, and he will not receive any support from Government members in the House of Representatives because they have the numbers in that chamber. I do not want to see it because I have great admiration for the former AttorneyGeneral as well. Again, I do not agree with all that he has done. I think he has been incredibly weak. I would like to apologise to him for having said to him that his credibility had totally gone. It had not totally gone, it was just that his indecisiveness was incredible. Nevertheless I have much time for him and I do not want to see him sacrificed in the other chamber. Yet I tell Opposition senators that that is what they are doing, and they could not care less because they have the power in their hands to do it here and because they love hatred. You think to yourselves: 'Here we have a man we can crucify, so let us crucify him'. That is what you are doing. I do not care what you say about the results of what  Senator Murphy  did. Say it. But I think you ought to drop the statement that he does not deserve the confidence of the Senate. You may not approve of what he did. you may not approve under any of the 5 paragraphs listed in the amendment, but you ought not say that you have no confidence in him because he is still going to be the AttorneyGeneral whether you like it or not - and all you are trying to do is to stick the boots into him and to smear him with mud. 
Do you call yourselves really intelligent people when you are prepared to do this just for the sake of a party victory? That is what you are seeking - political victory. You know it and you are ashamed of yourselves, and you should be ashamed of yourselves - not  Senator Wright,  however, he would never be ashamed of himself because he has a sadistic attitude. One can see it. When he got up to speak he had a sadistic attitude. I once called him paranoic, which is improper, so I will not say it here. But he has a sadistic attitude, and he was gunning for the Attorney-General and he loved every moment of it. He stood there in his fantasy and loved it. This is the sort of attitude we are seeing in this House. Had I seen a paper such as the Attorney-General saw I too probably would have been in high dudgeon and wanted to do something about it. Anyone who had seen such a paper would have felt that way - but apparently we find now that it was wrong. 
I do not know but I was informed that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that the ASIO report of the meeting was not correct. This brings me to the question: Was it a plant? And it could well be. We on this side of the chamber hear that every Croatian activity is due not to the Croatians, not to the terrorist Croatians, but to the plants. But now when I suggest it, of course, it is ridiculous that anyone should be planting something like this. Yet honourable senators opposite have been talking about it all the time. The other thing I do not like is this: I do not support Burchett, I do not believe in communism at all but the Opposition members have denied him the justice that they are demanding for the Croats and they fail even to realise it. I tell Opposition senators: You are so blind with your political prejudice that you cannot see this at all. One wonders what one should do with ASIO after all this because if it has had any harm done to it I do not think it would be a bad idea to disband it. As far as I can see, although it is called the Australian Security Intelligence 
Organisation in my opinion it has done nothing about security, if one considers the records that have been extracted from the files - and certainly it is not intelligent. So it is time that it had a change of name if it were not abolished altogether. I am not talking about terrorists. Do not let us become involved with the little bits and pieces as to whether an individual or an organisation committed the acts. Cannot an individual be directed by an organisation? AH these individuals probably are directed by someone. Yet honourable senators of the Opposition are prepared to accept this amendment because they think that there may be a double dissolution of the Parliament and that they must again kick the Communist can. 
It is the same thing. 
It is part of it. The honourable senator is supporting them only because the others are Communists. The Opposition would not support them for one second if the others were not Communists. That is what I mean. Opposition senators are kicking the Communist can hoping that this may result in a revival for them and that they will not be roundly defeated at the next Senate election. But the public will defeat them. I have been a member of the Senate for  11  years. I can see clearly what will happen. I will not be in the Senate after the next election. But I can assure  Senator Little  who is trying to interject that there will be  3  less members of his Party in the Senate. It does not matter- 
I am not trying to strike terror into the honourable senator's heart. I am just saying his Party will not have any power after the next Senate election. He is hoping to stir up the fear of communism. After all, that is the only thing that kept the former Government in power for  23  years. Honourable senators opposite are hoping that this will be the answer again. They say amongst themselves: 'Let us stir up communism. We are the defenders of the Croats, or whatever they are, against the Communists'. 
All right. The Attorney-General started it. 1 said at the beginning of my speech that I do not support everything that  Senator Murphy  did and that I do not support everything that  Senator Greenwood  did. Although I do not agree with what has been done on both sides of the Senate, I think that the Opposition is killing the 2 men concerned. They want to kill one honourable senator in this chamber and attend the funeral of the other in the other chamber. I think that they are pretty mean, petty, little men to allow this to go on. I suggest to them that they take out the words contained in the amendment to the motion that state that the Senate has no confidence in the Attorney-General. The public are not worried about the little talks of honourable senators about who left out a statement, who quoted out of context and whether an act was committed by an organisation or by an individual. All they know is that there is terrorism in this country. It does not matter how it was carried out. There is terrorism and it cannot be denied. The public is interested in that, not in petty, party political squabbles. They are not interested in whether the Liberal Party has got it over the Labor Party or the Labor Party has got it over the Liberal Party. All honourable senators think of is whether they are one-up on the members of the other Party. They do not think of the public at all. This is what they should be doing. They should be thinking of  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Murphy  before they vote on this stupid amendment that is presently before the Senate. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that if one wishes ill fortune to any enemy the easiest way of achieving this is to present that enemy with the 'Doctors Book', upon which the enemy will invariably accumulate all the diseases about which he or she reads? Is .the Government not aware that if it persists with its scheme of forcing chemists to hand out pamphlets outlining the side effects of drugs that they have supplied to patients, the patients also will suffer from some or all of the side effects mentioned in the pamphlets, thus necessitating further costs in the patients having again to consult their doctors in order to get different tablets, from whose side effects they will again invariably suffer, thus necessitating further costs and again consulting their doctors? I could go on all afternoon, but there it is. 
I do not wish to upset the applecart but I think that we are running away with the idea that every Party has to be represented on each Committee that is appointed. 
I do not think that  Senator Byrne  is suggesting that. But I do think that the honourable senator should have discussed this matter first with other honourable senators. If 3 honourable senators from each side of the Senate are to make up a committee membership of 6, okay, we will take our turn. The Country Party and the Democratic Labour Party on a proportional basis each is entitled to one in every 12 while the 3 Independents are entitled to one in every 20 in respect of appointments to committees. Should an Independent senator rise on each occasion when senators are appointed to a Committee and make a fuss on that basis? I doubt whether any Independent senator is a member of any Joint Committee. 
That may be so. But the point is that the membership of these committees is not big enough to make them as representative a possible. On that argument, if this committee is to be made a committee representative of the Senate, senators from the Country Party and the DLP as well as an Independent senator should be appointed to it. We ought not to be fighting about these matters if we are to accept that these Committees are to operate in the interests of honourable senators as a whole. If the wish is that 3 senators should be appointed from each side, so let it be. I am quite happy about that. If  Senator Byrne  wishes a member of his Party to be on a committee, he should talk to other honourable senators to see whether they will agree to such an appointment. But I think that we are overdoing it. That is the only reason why I rose. We have no right to demand representation on every committee. 
No, but the honourable senator is pointing it out. The honourable senator's Party has been a great help to us when an Independent senator has sought appointment to a committee. But if this argument is to be carried to its logical conclusion and if the membership of a committee is to be representative of the membership of the Senate, I point out again that an Independent senator must be appointed to each committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many medical practitioners have been employed in the Commonwealth Department of Health in each year since 1 July 1968, including the numbers at present employed. 
How many of these are based in Canberra. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) 
On a previous occasion when I spoke on a similar motion I said that one could smell the stench of hatred which permeates the benches of the Opposition. This motion is a continuation of that same implacable hatred which members of the Opposition are stirring up among themselves against the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  Let us be quite honest about the motion, lt is not concerned about terrorists. It is strictly an attempt to corner the Attorney-General in relation to his raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation.  Senator Carrick  gave a clue to this when he was finishing his speech. He said that this is what members of the Opposition are after. I am quite able to hold my own against any senator here. It does not matter that 1 am a Tasmanian. I do not know what snide remark the honourable senator was about to make to me. At least I was elected on my own merit, not because I ani a bureaucratic member of a Party who crawls around the committee in order to be selected first or second on the ticket so that I can be elected. I challenge  Senator Carrick  to stand for election as an independent. He would not be in the race. 
I resent any aspersions being cast on me by any honourable senator. Three independent senators have been elected. I have been elected twice. At least we got in on our merit, not because we crawled around the committee which selects those who shall be first or second on the ticket. If the honourable senator were not first or second, he would not be elected. Yet he speaks as if he were the only person who knows anything about the affairs of the nation. My God! If anyone should be ashamed of himself,  Senator Carrick  should because he is the man who is supposed to have advised the former Prime Minister. And how well the honourable senator advised him. All I can say is: Thank God for  Senator Carrick  because we got rid of the worst Prime Minister that this country ever had. This was due to  Senator Carrick's  efforts, apparently. Let me return to the motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I think it would be as well if the honourable senator did. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  1 was getting in ahead of you. I felt that I was entitled to make those remarks about a senator who made remarks about me. We heard so much from  Senator Carrick  about the structure of the committee. I thought  Senator Murphy  would deal with the motion in detail. The committee which the Democratic Labor Party wants to set up is totally different from any other Senate committee. One only has to read the motion to realise that. I do not want to bore the Senate by reading it. The proceedings of the committee are to be on television. Daily Hansard reports will be published. At one stage it was intended that counsel should appear. The committee will have the works. It will have a big line up so that it can have a crack at the Attorney-General all the time, which will be reported by the Press. The committee will try to keep that going. Members of the Opposition say: 'We are one up on the Australian Labor Party'. Members of the Labor Party say: 'We are one up on the Opposition'. What they forget is that the public is not interested ;n the petty quarrels between the 2 parties. The public is not interested in what is going on between the 2 parties. The public wants to know who is responsible for the bombings in Sydney in which civilians were hurt.  Senator Carrick  came out tonight with a wonderful fairy tale because of the side which he takes in the issue. So he said that the bombs were p anted by the Yugoslavs, not by the Croats. That is as fantastic as anything I have heard in this chamber. What can the committee do that the police cannot do? Even  Senator Wright,  1 am sure, could not solve this problem, and that is saying something. 

 Senator Carrick's argument that there is a need for the committee to probe all aspects of the matter is unfounded. I am not interested in what people do in Yugoslavia. It does not interest me one bit. It serves them right. If they want to die for their country, let them die for their country. What I am interested in, and what the people of Australia are interested in, is the fact that terrorists are letting off bombs in our country. That is what we arc interested in. The Opposition says that the select committee will find out who is responsible. I have never heard such drivelling nonsense as that put by the Opposition. Let me get back to the basic facts about the motion. lt is an example of the DLP's hatred of the communists. All honourable senators know that whenever a matter concerning the communists arises the DLP flares up because it, together with the Country Party and the finks - the Liberal Party - has the numbers. 
The Country Party, the DLP and the Liberal Party are called the hicks, the micks and the finks. The members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party probably join in simply because the DLP is doing this and it is a chance for them to join in. There are people in the Liberal Party who are opposed to this motion. 
Yes, I am hoping to. I am doing my best. 1 did this a long time ago. I am happy to say that it does not worry me 2 hoots which way other senators vote. 1 am here as an Independent and I will remain an Independent. I do not have to curry favour with any party. 
I am very proud of the Australia Party. 
Yes, and I had every right to do so. 
The absurdity of the stupid little man! He suggests that I could not get No. 1 position on the ticket when I was the only person in the Party. How stupid can you get! This is so absurd.  Mr Barton  is in New South Wales and I am in Tasmania.  Senator Little  should be sensible. He should try to use his brains instead of just chipping in for the sake of chipping in. I hurt him by saying that this motion moved by the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  is aimed at the Communist Party, and this little pipsqueak pips and squeaks. Now shut up and leave me alone. I did not worry you. Just be quiet. I agree with the honourable senator about the Australia Party. I am proud of the Australia Party because it has a very good program and it is growing at the expense of the DLP. If anyone is worrying about a double dissolution, it is the DLP. When the next Parliament meets these 2 Independents,  Senator Townley  and  Senator Negus,  will rule this country because the DLP will have 2 or 3 senators fewer than it has now. 
I want to get back to the point at which I was interrupted. This motion is DLP propaganda against the Communist Party. It is quite right for it to move it if that is its desire, but members of the Libera] Party and the Country Party rushed in and said: 'Here is something with which we can hit the Government and attack  Senator Murphy'.  One only has to talk with members of the Liberal Party for 5 minutes before hearing them say:  Senator Murphy  did it to  Senator Greenwood,  he obliterated  Senator Greenwood;  so we are going to obliterate  Senator Murphy'.  That is the basis of this motion. That is not just my opinion. Members of the Opposition disagree with the Press when it disagrees with them, but praise it when it praises them. The Press admits that in that battle  Senator Greenwood  lost. 
I must admit that I do not read the 'Advocate', if that is the name of it, or whatever it is called. 
ls it the 'News Weekly'? The point is that that is the basis of this motion;  Senator Murphy  killed  Senator Greenwood  and members of the Opposition are going to kill  Senator Murphy.  That is why they are all sticking up for this motion. They are sticking together for one specific purpose. If they were decent and honest with themselves they would move for the appointment of an ordinary Senate committee; but an ordinary Senate committee is not being sought. This is being specially done so that members of the Opposition can get the maximum publicity for themselves. If the Committee so desires, its hearings will be televised. Of course that will be its wish when the Opposition has the numbers. 
We can change the Independent who we suggested should be on this Committee? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I did not hear any such comment. Therefore, I cannot take action. 
I did not hear it. It is suggested in this motion that there be a committee of 7 senators, 3 to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and 4 by the Opposition, and we heard the little pipsqueak say: 'Don't you trust your own Independent?' We can change our nomination if we want to. 1 am quite happy to ask  Senator Townley  to come back into the fold and we will nominate  Senator Negus  if the honourable senator wants us to. I do not mind who becomes the Independent senator on this Committee, so long as I am not involved in it. 

 Senator Townley will admit that he stood for election as an Independent Liberal. I know that he is honest and J know that he will carry out his duties properly; but he is still a member of the Liberal Party and he admits it. Under the constitution of the Liberal Party in Tasmania he is allowed to stand for election against the Liberals and to retain his membership. He is a member of the Liberal Party. The Opposition has arranged that there be 3 senators appointed by the Government and 4 other senators. The Opposition is trying to wipe out the Government because even before we Independent senators had a chance to discuss this matter we were told that the Opposition would appoint  Senator Townley  as  chairman  of the Committee. Do not tell me that the Opposition is looking for a real Inde-pendent to be on the Committee. I have faith in  Senator Townley  and I know that if he happens to be  chairman  he will not let this committee become a witch hunt against  Senator Murphy.  Therefore, the Opposition will lose the whole basis of its reason for having this Committee. If  Senator Townley  takes over the chairmanship of the committee he will be independent and honest, unlike members of the Opposition. 
I propose to move an amendment. I will support it, but I will vote against the motion even if the amendment is carried. If this motion is carried I want to see what we all want to see and what  Senator Carrick  insists should be done; I want to see that this committee is just like any other Senate committee. 1 have written out my amendment, but honourable senators will not be able to read my writing. I move: 
In paragraph 2, omit 'seven', insert 'eight'; omit three', insert 'four'. 
That means that there would be 8 senators on the committee, 4 of whom would be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. That would almost get us back to where we were. The Government should have a majority. The Government will not have a majority in this case, but at least this will provide for a more reasonable approach. The Opposition is negating the principles of the Senate and is doing so deliberately because it thinks it has the numbers. Members of the Opposition are like a lot of bullies. They are just bullying, bullying and bullying and are going to do this because they have the numbers. 
If the members of the Opposition were honest with themselves they would insist that there be a majority of Government senators, as is the case with every other committee. I know that honourable senators will support my amendment because it still will not give the Government a majority. My amendment would provide for 4 senators from each side of the chamber, one of whom is an Independent, and I know that he will be independent. Assuming that he is independent, this will give the Government 4 members to the Opposition's 3. If my amendment is carried, I propose to vote against the motion because I think the Opposition is wasting its time. For some unknown reason, apart from the idealogy of the DLP, the public is not interested one iota in who is doing what, and why. 
Yes, and there are hundreds of other people in this country who also have the same feeling about their personal affairs and they receive no assistance from the  people in the  DLP.  The answer to this problem is to set up an ombudsman. That is something of which I am in favour. These are the sorts of things that could be referred to him if people feel that the Government has obstructed them in any way whatsoever. I have moved that amendment and 1 hope that we get some honesty on the part of members of the Opposition. If the amended motion is carried the Government will have proper representation, and that is something to which it is entitled 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health a question which is supplementary to the one that he has just answered. Will he ask the Minister for Health to allay the confusion that exists amongst patients, chemists and doctors as to whether a person needs one or two injections of the new influenza vaccine for booster purposes? If a person is having an immunisation he needs 2 injections and the following year he needs only one. But certain advice from the instrumentalities of the Department of Health indicates that a person needs 2 injections. The Department of Health implies that a person needs 2 injections because it has changed the pharmaceutical benefits list from one injection to 2 injections. 
No, two altogether even for a booster, and I am talking about boosters now. If a person has not been immunised previously he still needs 2 injections and, because of the added different strain A, he needs to have a booster. There is this difficulty in ascertaining whether a person needs one or two injections. Will the Minister please assist doctors, chemists and patients by giving us an answer? 
 I support the motion and oppose the amendment which I would prefer to see as an addendum. In other words, I support  Senator Wright's  motion which could have been added to  Senator Willesee's  motion instead of  Senator Willesee's  motion being deleted and  Senator Wright's  motion being substituted. I support  Senator Devitt.  The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has not yet given one reason why on this occasion only the Committee will have a preponderance of Opposition members. 
 Non-government members. It is all very well to say that certain things happen in other Parliaments and that, if we believe in them, let us come to some agreement and do them in this Parliament. But to date, as far as I am aware, the Government of the day has always had a majority of members of those committees, and if the Opposition felt that it had not received justice on any committee it could always submit a minority report. This has always been the case, and I think that changing this concept because the Opposition has the numbers is wrong. 1 have said previously - 1 know the reason for it in regard to another notice of motion - that the Opposition is abusing its power. There is no other way about it; the Opposition is just abusing its strength. If the Opposition would tell the Senate the reason - it has not done so-it intends to change the methods of the Senate, we could listen to that reason to see whether it was good enough. But the Opposition has not given a reason. 
4 do not know. It must have one to have done this, but I do not follow it. I am happy to support  Senator Wright's  motion when it comes on but I would be happier if it could be made an addendum to the motion moved by  Senator Willesee.  I would prefer that to  Senator Willesee's  motion being deleted. I ask the Leader of the Opposition or one of his supporters to tell us why the Opposition is doing this. 
I wish to ask  a  question of the Minister representing the 
Minister for Health. In view of the great public interest in the art of acupuncture, will the Government be prepared to sponsor a visit to Australia by 2 or 3 leading acupuncturists from China? 
I  am sorry to have to interrupt the events of the evening but back benchers have had very few opportunities this year to address themselves to matters of national importance. I believe that the Health Insurance Planning Committee report is a matter that comes within that category. No one seems to have taken any notice of the report. As there is no chance to debate it, because a motion to take note of it has not been moved, and as there does not seem to be any chance of the Senate resuming the debate on the Address-in-Reply, the only chance that I have of speaking on a matter which I think is of great importance is by adopting this tactic of talking on a money Bill. Therefore I am using the ruse of speaking on the motion for the first readings of the Wool Tax Bills in order to speak about national health insurance. 
I am not making any political attack on the Health Insurance Planning Committee report, but I believe that the time has come to raise a matter in respect of national health. All of us should adopt the slogan that it is time. It is time not only that our national health system, whether it be the insurance system or the system of medical or hospital care, was improved but it is time that the patient was considered. The report, which has been circulated to all honourable senators and to all doctors, does not make one iota of reference to the patient, and I am vitally interested in the patient. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Order! There is too much audible conversation in the chamber. 
I hope that they will get interested in a minute. I am just leading up. The patient has been neglected completely in the report. It is the report of 2 Ph.Ds. Anyone can be a Ph.D. these days, I understand. I do not want to denigrate the gentlemen who prepared the report because they have done a good job. I am not denigrating the report. I am not attacking it. There are a lot of good things in it. But it appears to have forgotten the patient. The report seems to deal with whether the doctors are getting too much money. That is the first thing. The second question which the report seems to pose is: How can we attack the health benefit insurance companies? How can we do something about the hospitals? But there is not one word about the patient. This has got me to such a stage that I feel I have to speak. 
I have six or seven points to make in regard to this report. Firstly, let me deal with the propaganda about the medical profession. Each honourable senator has his own private general practitioner. I am certain that if I asked each honourable senator individually not one would deny that his doctor is a good fellow, that he has a lot of faith in his doctor and that he thinks his doctor is worth the money which he is paying. 
You did not come to me. The point is that each honourable senator has faith in his doctor. 
Only milage. The, report is an attack on GPs. That is what I want to deal with. Basically the report is an attack on the GPs. lt is really a question of threatening them by telling them that they will have to toe the line and do what we tell them. Our advice is based on the contents of the report. There were no medical men on the Health Insurance Planning Committee. It was comprised of Ph.Ds and so on. The threat is this: 'If you do not do what we tell you to do we will, in effect, ruin your career because you will not be able to practise'. Let us have no 2 ways about it. If the Government denies the GP his right to prescribe pharmaceutical benefits for the patient, then obviously the patient will say: 'As much as I love you, dear doctor, I will not pay you $8 to $10 for a prescription when I can go next door and get it for $T. So the threat is there; there is no doubt about it. T think it is wrong. If the Government wants a national health scheme, the first thing it must have is cooperation, and it is not co-operation when its spokesman says: 'We will hit you over the head if you do not do what I tell you to do'. If it were for the good of the patient, I would be happy to hit doctors on the head; I think many of them need hitting on the head. 
We hear this propaganda of half truths. There is no doubt that someone in the Department of Health is a very good public relations man and that he is feeding the. Press with statements about how much doctors are earning and so on. Let the Government put its money where its mouth is. It talks about this money, lt has said. I think, that $50,000 is the average income for a doctor. The problem for the public is that it is confused about GPs and other practitioners. When a statement is made that doctors are earning $50,000 a year, the public thinks that all doctors are earning such income. The $50,000 a year income is earned by surgeons, radiologists, pathologists and so on. The GP does not earn that sum. When the Press statement made on behalf of either the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  or the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is boiled down, it shows that the average annual earnings for a GP is $30,000 a year. Right. F tell the Government: 'Now put your money where your mouth is, give every GP in this country $30,000 a year and they will all join your scheme because you know damn well that very few GPs are earning such a sum'. If the Gov ernment believes the myth that GPs are earning $30,000 a year net - they are taxed on that $30,000 - then give it to us and we will all join the scheme. Who would not join the scheme for a payment of $30,000 a year, for working from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, for not working on the weekend and for being paid overtime if he has to work at weekends? It is so much nonsense to talk in that way about the poor GP. 1 know that he is making a lot of money, but so are many other people. We members of this Parliament are not doing too badly. I say to the Government: 'Give us $30,000 a year and there will not be one GP who will not want to join the scheme'. But the Government is not prepared to do this. The Government makes insidious innuendoes against doctors. It says: 'They are all money grubbers'. Some are as are some of us in politics and some people in other places. No matter where one goes, there are money grubbers. Nevertheless there are some doctors with humanitarian principles. The Government continues to denigrate the doctors, saying that all they want is money. Right. I am now giving the Government the chance. I do not think for one moment that there will be. one doctor who will refuse to join the Government's scheme if it is prepared to pay them. The Government ought not continue to hand out the propaganda that doctors are making $30,000 a year net if it is not prepared to pay the doctors $30,000 a year, or even a bit less; - I would be happy about that - providing also that we receive superannuation benefits, and a 5-day working week with hours of 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day. Give us that salary and those conditions and we will join the scheme straight away. 
Here I should like to refer to a very interesting chart on a comparison of professions drawn by an accountant who is concerned with taxation problems. He makes a very good comparison of the professions. The ones I want to compare are the doctor and the public servant. The chart shows that the doctor works 3,825 hours per annum whereas the civil servant works 1,511 hours per annum. On the net income per hour worked - appreciating that the doctor earns a lot more than does the civil servant; another graph shows that the doctor earns say $15,000 taxable income per annum compared with the public servant earning $6,000 per annum - the public servant hits the top.  His  net income for every hour worked is $5.12 per hour while the doctor's net income for every hour worked is $3.27. These are facts that nobody can deny. 
The lawyer is not too badly off. Only solicitors are shown on the chart. A solicitor works 2,623 hours per annum and his net income per hour worked - he is third on the list - is $4.25. He is way ahead of the doctor. I ask for leave to incorporate these charts in Hansard so that honourable senators may have a better understanding of the figures. There is a table of comparison of professions and the charts. I do not know whether the charts can be incorporated in Hansard, but certainly the table can. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Before I ask whether leave is to be granted, I point out that incorporation of the table and the charts will depend on the facilities available to Hansard. Is leave granted? 
It was prepared by an accountant who gave an address to a meeting of general practitioners who then published it in their magazine. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table reads as follows) - 

<graphic href="056232197305292_55_12.jpg"></graphic>

Based on net income per hour worked, the doctor should be entitled to increase his fee by 105 per cent to give him equality with the public servant. 
My second point is that there is nothing in this blueprint for the future of medical services, or health insurance as it is called, because health insurance is tied up with the future improvement of medical care. AH that has been done in this proposal is to computerise what it will cost hospitals, health insurance companies, the commission and so on, but there is not one iota about the good of the patient. Let me warn the Government about the cost of this scheme. It has been assessed that it will cost $840m, but this cost is already out of date because it was assessed on the present schedule of fees which is to be altered within the next few days or few weeks. If the cost was estimated to be $840m then, I do not know what it will be in future, but obviously it will rocket upwards as the scheme comes into being. 
My third point is vital to myself for I have been practising and preaching this for 35 years. It is the denigration of the poor. I do not mind the Australian Medical Association, formerly the British Medical Association, not supporting me but I do object to the Labor Government not supporting me in my objection to the fact that a poor person may not have the treatment of his own choice. I think that is criminal. I wrote a paper on this subject which 1 delivered to a medical congress in either 1948 or 1958 - I cannot remember which year it was - the whole point of which is that if a person has enough money, he is entitled to have his own GP treat him. If that person has to enter hospital, he is entitled to have that GP treat him in a private hospital. In other words, the law recognises that the GP is good enough to treat that patient in a private hospital, but if that patient goes into a public hospital - finish. Down comes the clamp and the Government tells the GP: 'You are not allowed to treat your own patient in this hospital. We know better than you do. We have our own specialists in this hospital. They are better than you are and they will treat the patient'. That is what I object to most strongly in this scheme. There is nothing in it which will help to get rid of this philosophy that if one is poor, one may not have the doctor of his choice treat him in a hospital. I object to it. T think that everyone objects to it. 
Why do persons choose to go to private doctors? Most senators in this chamber attend private doctors. They visit them for a number of reasons including the fact that they believe in their doctor or because it is convenient to visit him. If one is sick and one has enough money, one can enter a private hospital. The private doctor will follow his patient to that hospital and treat that patient there. 
This is not the case with those who are poor. If a patient is poor, that patient has had it. Here am I attacking a Labor Government for doing the very thing that it should not be doing. The poor should have the same rights as the rich. What I object to most strongly in the report is that the poor are denigrated. The Government is doing this all the time. 
I do not mind the Australian Medical Association attacking me on this subject that used to be its policy. It has changed now. The AMA has actually discovered that perhaps I was speaking the truth. The AMA has changed. But until the last 4 or 5 years it has always attacked me because it is specialist oriented. It believes that the specialist is the best one to treat a patient. At least 60 per cent of people who enter hospital need GP treatment only. Why then does the Government denigrate the poor? Why does it not allow the poor to have the same treatment as richer citizens are allowed to have? The treatment of the poor is the worst basis of this scheme because nothing is done about that problem. 
In fact, in this scheme, the Government proposes to make the situation worse for the poor. It will not allow anyone other than salaried doctors to treat them. Salaried doctors will be appointed. The Government will not allow GPs to have a say in the treatment in hospital of their own patients. This to me is a disgrace. It is a shame on the Australian Labor Party that this situation is not recognised. It is all very well to say 'We are giving them specialist treatment; specialist treatment is better', and so on. Why does the Government allow the rich to be treated by their GPs? It does not mind that honourable senators are treated in hospital by their own doctors hut this scheme denies this privilege to those who cannot afford to pay. This, I think, is wrong. The Government should do something about this situation. 
My fourth point in relation to the proposed national health scheme is that the Government proposes to do nothing to help to increase the number of GPs in practice. Do not get away with the idea that there are plenty of GPs practising. Let me give the Senate an idea of the situation. There is a locum practice in which I am interested. I was informed in a telephone inquiry I made that the medical practice in which I am interested is serviced by a doctor. Opposite is a doctor of 72 with an Indian partner. Around the corner from this 72-year old doctor is another doctor of 72 years. This was the situation in a country town. When those 2 doctors each of 72 years go, who will attend their patients? Are we to increase the number of foreigners in this country so that we have  someone  medically qualified to mind those patients, or are we to do something to make .sure that people who wish to become GPs and to treat people in Australia will be able to do so? Do we not want Australians to be doctors and to treat our people? Or is the Government happy with  a  position in which people from foreign countries with medical qualifications treat our own people? 
Another result which will flow from this report is that an increase in the number of GPs will be prevented. A shortage of GPs exists now in the country. This shortage will become greater and greater. It will become so acute soon that the Government will have to rely on foreign doctors to run its health service as England does. 
 The optometrist can speak for himself. I am talking about medical practice. One of the reasons for the decrease of the number of GPs in practice is the differential in fees. I have been doing locums. I go into country areas. GP doctors there are operating on people. They are entitled to do so. Their patients want them to operate. There is no one else to operate on them. The surgeon in the country is the GP surgeon. He operates. He receives $X for his work. But if a GP surgeon has a senior degree, he receives two or three times more than $X for performing the same service. Is that reasonable? Is it fair? What does this mean? It means that a person who has graduated from medical school promptly goes into specialisation. This again means no GPs from medical schools. 
 Yes, but not completely. As the honourable senator says, training has a lot to do with it. But, in the final analysis, these people are not oriented towards providing GP services. 
 Even if they are oriented in that way, they would not go into general practice because they can earn extra money by being specialists. An extra- 2 years study is involved- 
 The others have not the qualifications but have the experience. I do not wish to bring my own case into this debate. For many years I operated. 1 had no senior degree then. What I have now is not really a senior degree: it is a Fellow of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners degree. But I operated. I am entitled to operate. People ask me to operate. They are prepared lo pay for my services. Why should 1 be paid less than a specialist who has a senior degree? 
That is right. Why should he be paid more? I do not mind which way it works. All I want is the abolition of this differential. If that is done, we will have more GPs and medical students prepared to go into general practice. 
 No. I think that these doctors should be paid. I agree that there should be what are called visiting medical officers. Whether they are paid or give honorary services is a different matter. I believe in that visiting system, lt could be a fully salaried system such as the system that Newcastle has always had. This means that there may be 4 physicians and 4 surgeons on full salary working in a hospital getting all the experience while the rest of the doctors in Newcastle are not getting that experience. This is harmful to 60 per cent or 70 per cent of the population which is treated outside that hospital, lt is good for those in the hospital but it is bad for those outside that hospital. 
A salaried service on its own means the honorary system or the visiting system, if we like to call it that. The visiting system requires that the honorary will be paid. If he is allowed to visit, he learns more, gets 'more experience and gains more practice. This experience is spread through the community. In other words, there may be 20 honoraries at a hospital doing medical work. They come to that hospital twice a week. Under the new scheme, full time salaried officers will provide 10 sessions a week as against the present 2 sessions a week, so only one-fifth of the former number will be needed. Fewer people will be properly trained and able to spread their knowledge in the community. 
The other matter that 1 wish to mention is the unreferred specialist item. I am not sure whether it is in the Health Insurance Planning Committee report or whether I heard it from someone in the department concerned. A special item is about to be introduced in medical benefits for unreferred cases handled by specialists. The basis of any health scheme, as has been proved throughout the world, is the general practitioner and referral from the general practitioner. If that scheme is not followed, medical costs rise immediately. If people are allowed to attend a specialist ait any time without first going through a GP service, people will do this increasingly and costs will be higher. Until the present, no item has been provided by way of medical benefits for unreferred visits to specialists. There has been no special item for unreferred cases handled by specialists. 
The public does not realise the difference between a consultant and a specialist. A consultant is one who will only see cases referred to him. A specialist is one who specialises in a special field but is happy to see anyone off the street. Patients do not need to be referred. The only time when GPs know that these doctors are specialists is when they ring up and ask for referral forms for one of their patients. Specialists are the people who are prepared to take patients off the street. They charge an extra amount. They charge a specialists fee. This is the reason why half truths and propaganda are heard about doctors not keeping to the common fee. 1 know that a number of doctors do not charge the common fee. But the situation is aggravated by the fact that thousands of people visit specialists on an unreferred basis. Each specialist charges a specialist's fee. Let us assume for the sake of argument that the common fee for the service is $4. The specialist charges a fee of $12 for the same service. The charge by the specialist is shown in the computer as item 1 because it was an unreferred service. But item 1 is the code for a GP consultation. Each such visit is shown in the computer system as a GP charging $8 more than the common fee for the service performed. Of course, what the propagandists in the Department of Health forget to point out is that thousands and thousands of people go to see a specialist without being referred and the specialist charges his specialist tee which is 2 or 3 times more than the common fee. It is shown as item 1 in the list of general practitioners' fees. 
Whilst I am dealing with the common fee, there is another error here in that the computer does not differentiate between common fees charged in the surgery and the other fees that are charged for consultations outside the normal hours. They are all shown as item 1 and therefore this boosts again the number of cases in which the common fee is not charged. 
I cannot agree more with  Senator Jessop.  But that is not what this insurance report is doing. All it is doing is helping to create a shortage of general practitioners. The first matter is the denigration of the poor and the second matter is the lack of inducement for doctors to enter the medical profession as general practitioners. 1 asked a question regarding the number of medical practitioners employed by the Commonwealth Department of Health in the last S years. The number employed in that period has increased from 180 to 309. The number based in Canberra has increased from 30 to 75. To me this is a scandal and it should be investigated. But this is happening before the new national health scheme has come in. When one considers that the number of medical practitioners in the Commonwealth Department of Health has increased from 180 to 309 in 5 years, one wonders whether, if those extra 120 to 130 doctors went into general practice, perhaps there would not be a shortage of general practitioners. But we are saying: 'Join the Commonwealth Health Department. You are assured of safety, you are assured of superannuation, you work only 5 days a week, you have to work only from 9 to 5, you get 4 weeks annual leave and you get sick leave'. 
I do not blame these dropouts from the medical profession. Most of them - not all of them - have been failures in general practice and they join the Department of Health for the sake of security. I do not blame them at all because this is something that they now have. But to me it is absolutely criminal that in 5 years the number of medical practitioners in the Department of Health who are based in Canberra has more than doubled. I return to the report. The third thing wrong with it is lack of coverage of ancillary services. My optometrist is gone, but he provides one of these services. 
Thank you. Here we have a blueprint, a chance, an opportunity to make something of our national health scheme, which is what the Labor Party has believed in for years and what it has been talking about for years. But when the Labor Party comes into office as the Government, all it is worrying about is national health insurance and whether it will cost $X, $Y or $Z. There is nothing about the patients. Why does not the Government include in its national health insurance dentists, physiotherapists and optometrists? Why does it not bring a complete national health insurance scheme? If it is going to introduce a national health insurance scheme, it should bring in a complete scheme. Instead, what the Government is doing in this report is saying that it will nationalise medical services. There is no doubt whatever that in this report the Government has harmed itself because it will not come out and bring in a complete medical report. It will nationalise the rest of these ancillary services because it is saying: 'We are not going to let any health insurance funds exist; we are going to abolish them'. So no one can get health insurance to cover these ancillary services which are so vital to the Australian people. Why did not the Government do something about these ancillary services? It had the opportunity to do so. It has been given a mandate to do something about ancillary services, but it is not really caring about them as much as it should. Instead, the Government is frightening off all these people by saying: 'Right, we will do something for them through a national service, a salaried service'. Of course, that is the end. 
The Government is killing private health insurance; it says so in this report. I have no time for the health insurance funds. Those honourable senators who served with me on the committee which inquired into this matter know that I have never supported the health insurance funds. But if people want private health insurance, why does not the Government let them have it? Why make this sort of niggardly attack on everyone who does not see eye to eye with the Government? There is a place for private health insurance to cover the services of optometrists. Therefore, we Ought to have private health insurance. People want to go to dentists, chiropodists, physiotherapists and many other people who provide ancillary medical services. But the Government is killing private health insurance in this report. That is another feature of the report. 
This is strictly my own point of view and it has nothing to do with the national health insurance scheme, but 1 also want to see something done about the propaganda that comes out about people who cannot afford to pay medical fees. We read it in the Press. I condemn the Press for the propoganda it puts out that people cannot afford to pay fees. This is utter nonsense. It does not matter what the common fee is. I do not agree with doctors who charge more than the common fee. I think the common fee is ample. But if doctors want to charge more than the common fee and they think people will pay it, let them do so. 
I am not attacking the common fee. Before the common fee concept was introduced, in my practice 1 never charged what would have been called the common fee. I was in a group of 4 doctors, and we always charged 50c, or the equivalent of 50c, more than other general practitioners in Launceston were charging. I started in that practice with one partner and then there were 2, 3 and 4 partners. Our practice grew because of the fact that we gave a service; it did not matter that we charged more than other general practitioners were charging. If one gives a service it does not matter what the fee is. 1 think that if one is prepared to give a service one is entitled to charge whatever fee one likes. If people cannot afford to pay that fee they can go to other doctors; they do not have to go to the doctors who charge more than the common fee. 
There are public hospitals. If the State and Commonwealth governments are not prepared to provide proper outpatient departments, that is their fault and the blame rests with them. People want to go to private practitioners. It is no good for people who go to private practitioners to say: 'I am charged $4.50 but someone else charges $3'. They do not have to go to the private practitioner who charges $4.50. But they do not want to put up with the service that they receive at a public hospital. They do not want to be in queues. They do not want to have to wait to see a doctor. They prefer to pay extra in order to see a private practitioner. 
I think that since the national health insurance scheme was introduced, the number of people who cannot afford to pay for medical services is roughly 3 per cent to 5 per cent of the total, which is negligible. The point is that we must stop this propaganda in the Press. The Press is publishing this propaganda all the time that people cannot afford to pay for medical services. People can afford to have their couple of cans of beer; they can afford to have a man come in to repair a television set. They can afford anything like that, but they cannot afford to go and see a doctor. People can make a choice between doctors. If people like, they can shop around, lt is always the people who can afford to pay who suddenly squeal. People who live near an aerodrome squeal and say: 'What have you got the aerodrome there for? Move the aerodrome. I want the best benefit'. 
I will close now because I have dealt mainly with the health insurance scheme. I want to mention several other points which are irritating doctors at the present time. I will be brief. The first refers to the computer system in regard to checks on doctors. Big brother is watching every general practitioner in this country. There is a computer service, and it checks on every person whom a doctor sees. A doctor is then sent round to these doctors who may be doing what is called over-visiting. Probably some doctors are overvisiting. I have noticed this myself when working as a locum. I have thought that these doctors were over-visiting, and I have been a bit horrified about it. But there is a second thought on this matter. I cannot really ask honourable senators to try to imagine that they are old age pensioners - old women and old men living on their own - but if they were, would they not want a doctor to call to see them? 
 No, the Commonwealth pays for it. Now,  Senator Primmer,  let us concentrate on you. Go and see some of the pensioners for a change and ask them what they want to do about it. They will back me, not the Government. I have seen some of the doctors who visit these people two or three times a week. I think that  is  preposterous. Once a week may even be slightly too much. But these pensioners have nothing to live for. They live in misery. Very few doctors are prepared to visit them and when they do.the visit  is  recorded on the computer and the doctor is ticked off by the Commonwealth Department of Health: 'You have been seeing the pensioner every fortnight instead of going every 3 months'. 
No. Somebody has to order the medicine. 
It has been going on for years. I am not denying that some of the doctors are overdoing it. But do not blame all the doctors just because a few doctors overdo it. There are black sheep amongst politicians as well as amongst doctors. Do not tell me that just because one does it, the whole lot have to be castigated and branded in the same way. I have criticised doctors for what happens. I have said to pensioners: "You do not need a doctor for another month and I will tell  Dr so-and-so  not to come for another month*. The patient has replied: 'Oh no, he always comes every fortnight and I am looking forward to his visit'. The pensioners want this but Government supporters sneer and say that it is on the Commonwealth. I could not care less. If I was a general practitioner with my own practice - I am only a locum nowadays - it would not be worth my while to go out of my way and see a patient for $2.65. It would cost more than that for petrol and so on. It would not be worth your time. 
How many of them walk around? Tell us a few facts and figures. Come on, tell us. I admit that there are doctors who overdo it. I am not denying that. I have a letter here from a doctor who was ticked off because according to the computer he made too many visits. He was told that he had seen 233 active pensioners in the previous year. Of that number 30 were seen once and 164 were seen 8 times in the year. About 80 per cent of the work related to 39 patients. I worked  it  out that the doctor had seen those people 2.6 times a week. At first I thought: My God, he  is  overdoing this a bit'. However the fact  is  that there are many more than the 600 on his list whom he had not seen. If he really had wanted to slug the Government for his 164 pensioners that he saw only 8 times he could have seen them 26 times, which would have been reasonable, say once every fortnight, or even 12 times. As I have said, he saw only 39 pensioners at the rate of 2.6 visits  a  week. This was in the eastern surburbs of Sydney where a lot of pensioners continue paying their hospital insurance and go to a private hospital. The Government does not realise how many people do this. I see a lot of them. He saw 39 of them 2.6 times a week. He could have  been  seeing a lot of those patients daily and that would have spread the average from 2.9 to 5 or 6. 
Yes, as patients. They go into private hospitals as patients. A lot of pensioners continue paying their hospital insurance. 
Yes. The hospital insurance carries them and they can go into a private hospital and pay the doctor by means of a pension voucher. That is a common thing. This is one of the irritations I said that doctors are suffering because they are overvisiting pensioners. I ask  Senator Primmer  to put himself in the place of a pensioner of 70 or 75 years who is wanting treatment. I ask him to think about that for a while. 
A statement was issued by the Department of Social Security or the Department of Health - I am not sure which - complaining about repeat prescriptions. Let me tell the Senate that this is a damned nuisance in any medical practice. It has been the practice for a pensioner to ring the doctor or to send someone to the surgery with a message saying that he wants so many tablets. Usually there is a shopping list of five or six types of tablets. The doctor writes the prescription and when the pensioner comes to pick it up he signs the pension voucher for $2.60 or $2.70, whatever the sum is. Private people ask for a script but the doctor cannot charge them because they have not come to see him. The Department of Health has now made a statement about pensioners who have been using this facility for years. Sometimes they have to use it because they cannot get to the surgery. I asked one pensioner why he did not come to the surgery and he said that the bus ran only at such-and-such a time and he could not come. It is easier for a pensioner to telephone or to send someone to get his drugs. So the doctor has to sit down and write out 2 prescription forms sometimes, because they are allowed only 3 prescriptions on each form, ls not the doctor entitled to make a charge for that service? Why is the Government so heartless? Does it really believe that this practice should be stopped? It is saying that it must not be allowed. 
What are the doctors to do? They will tell the pensioners to come to the surgery, see the doctor and sign the voucher. I do not say that this should be carried to the extent of the practice relating to private scripts but there should be an item in the national health scheme to cover people who want repeats but do not want to see their doctor. This happens time and time again. They just want repeats because under the new law the number of tablets has been restricted. In the case of Mogadon, for example - a sleeping tablet - people are allowed only 25 tablets. There is ail this talk about drugs, but at the age of 60, 65 or 70 years what does it matter if a person takes a sleeping tablet every night. Heavens above! People are allowed only 25 tablets and if they want a repeat they send for it. The doctor has to sit down, get out the patient's card, put the information on the card and write out the prescription but he is not allowed to charge. Most doctors have a fee for writing out prescriptions, so why not include it in the national health scheme? If the Government only knew what it was doing, lt takes longer to write out a prescription on a telephone request than it does for the doctor to see the patient. If the patient comes to see the doctor, he has the empty bottle in his hand or he has a list of tablets and asks for them. The doctor then writes out the prescription. If the patient telephones, the doctor has to get his nurse to get out the patient's card, he has to read it, write down the information and then arrange for the prescription to be sent to the pensioner. Do not say that the doctors are trying to diddle the Government all the time. They have their problems just as the Government has problems. But does not the patient count? Does the Government never think of the patient? 
 You do not understand medicine. Hundreds of patients, thousands of them, go to their doctors for repeat prescriptions. The honourable senator would not deny me that statement, would he? 
Well, that is all right. That is all that the patients want. 
All right, then the Government should include a special item to cover this. I am not arguing about it. 
Yes, on most occasions, particularly when I am acting as a locum. I have to do it. Even the regular doctor does it. Suppose that the patient has blood pressure or just cannot sleep, he writes and ask for the repeat prescription so the doctor provides it. 
You would need to take it only every month. I have spoken for longer than I intended but there are 2 other things to which I want to refer to. One is the freedom to prescribe. 
This is the other matter that is irritating the general ' practitioners: The Department of Health tries to ensure that they are not capable of prescribing. Do not let honourable senators say that general practitioners overprescribe. If they want to know the truth, I can tell them of many cases of old people, especially pensioners, who come to doctors and ask for seven or eight tablets. You say to them: 'Why do you have to have them?'. They say: 'Because my specialist gave them to me in hospital'. These people have got to the age where they think these tablets are the only things that will keep them alive and they are damn well going to have them whether you like it or not. It is no use saying: 'Get off those tablets. You do not need them'. The old person will say: 'My specialist ordered them at the hospital*. The Department of Health denigrates the general practitioner all the time. I have raised this question with the department before. I know that not one honourable senator, if his child was suffering from asthma, would deny that his doctor was the one who should prescribe. But honourable senators do not help me on this matter. They let the Department of Health get away with what it is doing. 
Let me take the case of the drug Intal which is the drug I have been thinking about. I would have to obtain a special authority if I were to treat the child of an honourable senator with that drug. I may have been treating that child for years, not the Commonwealth Department of Health doctor in Sydney, Hobart or wherever he may live. I am the doctor who has treated the child. Yet I have to write to that other doctor in Sydney or Hobart to get permission to prescribe the drug. I asked about this matter during a committee meeting in Canberra. I was told that 19,000 special authorities had been requested for Intal. 
 Yes. It was used mainly for children. I said: 'That is a lot of special authorities'. I asked how many had been refused and was told none. Was not this an exercise in bureaucracy? Every doctor has to write in for his prescription but they will not be refused. So why write in? Why not let general practitioners order it when they know that this is the treatment that is required. The drug is included in the national health scheme list. 
 It may provide income for the Postal Department but it makes a lot of work for the doctor. Sometimes, the patient has to wait. This illustrates the stupidity of the position and bureaucracy at its worst: If the doctor does not write the exact words required - for instance, that it is a case of chronic and intractactable asthma - he will not get the prescription. The Department of Health doctor will ring up or send back the request with a query. 
No, but I had one queried. I telephoned the departmental doctor and ticked him off. I think he thought that as I was a senator he had better give it to me. None has been refused. But the Department does write back and say that the doctor has not written the exact words shown on the screed. For years, doctors have been lying. That applies to every doctor in this country. There is not one doctor who has not lied by putting 'SP' or 'specified purpose' after certain drugs during the last few years. The Department of Health knew it. A person may come to me with a particular disease. I may want to order that person tetracycline. It was an SP' drug but now it is not. We finally got through to the Department that this was so much bureaucracy. But by God, it took 10 years to do it. A person may come to me who has pneumonia. I may think that tetracycline was better than other drugs for him. I have to write 'SP' or 'specified purpose* because I should have ordered one of the sulpha drugs. But if I asked a patient: Would you like a sulphar drug which may or may not- cure you or tetracycline which will cure you', which drug do honourable senators think he will ask for? Honourable senators know damn well what the patient would say. So doctors have had to lie all these years by putting 'SP' after every prescription that they wrote. Now, thank God, the Department has eliminated that. 
The final point with which I wish to deal involves the trend that is developing today which I do not like because I am an old fashioned doctor. But it is a trend with which we have to live. I am referring to the new locum services. Whether we like it or not, doctors are now insisting that they work only from 9 a.m. to 5p.m. I think that humanitarianism has gone out of medicine. But that is only my personal view. The point is that at the moment many doctors will not see patients after 5 p.m. or on week ends. I think that doctors are cutting their own throats. I think that wherever possible they should see their own patients. But that is my personal view. 
This is the point I am trying to get at: The locum service system is here whether or not we like it. The locum service system uses a doctor who attends patients at night. He stays up all night and may visit 10 to 20 people who may be the patients of 10 or 20 doctors. They may be people who may wake up at midnight, in pain. The doctor may have to give an injection to each one of these patients. For instance, they may be asthmatical. So he has to have drugs to give them. Many of these drugs are on the doctors drug list which each doctor, each month is entitled to draw. But because the doctor is a locum and he may see 20 people in the one night, he may use quite easily his whole month's supply of say, morphia, in the one night. But he is allowed only one month's supply. 
So the doctors wrote to the DirectorGeneral of Health Services and asked that the after hours locum services - the emergency services - be given an extra amount of these doctor's bag drugs which is a reasonable request, lt should not take much effort for two or three men - departmental officers and doctors - to get together and work out some scheme under which there will not be any cheating of the Government or drug addiction of the doctor. The doctors wrote in February. They still have not received an answer. I went to see the Minister for Health just the other day. He was very sympathetic about it. We hope that the doctors may receive an answer in the near future. Here again, it is a case of bureaucracy at its best. The doctors are allowed one lot of doctors' drugs a month. If a doctor uses up his month's supply of, say, morphia in one night he is not allowed any more. 
The public service forgets that there are new ventures in this world. They do not understand new ventures. Public servants have been living with their little hidebound ideas, saying no, no, all the time until they get to the top and become the head of their department. I raise that matter as another point in concluding my remarks dealing with the troubles of our medical men. I know that  Senator Douglas  McClelland who represents the Minister for Health in the Senate has listened with interest to most of what I have said. If he has not listened to it with interest, at least he took note of it. I hope that he will pass it on to  Mr Hayden,  the Minister for Social Security. I hope that we can evolve a national health plan that will benefit the patient and not worry all the time about the cost of health insurance or how much profit the doctor will make. 
Last Tuesday I spoke about  a  matter of national concern, the national health scheme. I pointed out that we had forgotten completely the main ingredient, the patient. Today  1  want to talk about another national enterprise which again has forgotten the very people that it serves. I refer to Qantas Airways Ltd. Also, I want to talk about an associated matter, that of customs. Firstly, I will deal with Qantas. Most of the sting of my remarks has been taken away by the fact that the Government has, quite rightly I think, altered the board of Qantas. Really, it was a dreary board of old, tired men who had been given their rewards. I see recent criticism of one Labor appointment as being a reward.  1  do not know why the other members of the board were appointed by the previous Government if it was not a reward. 
 I hope so because I am rather tired of this image of Qantas being an efficient Australian airline. I do not want to bore honourable senators by telling them what happened in just one personal experience last year. I think that there were  8  different complaints of inefficiency in one trip that  1  made, This happens all the time because Qantas is not interested in the customer. It is interested in being in the big league. It wants to be the big noise of overseas travel. It has no interest whatever in the person who wants to use its aircraft. I think that it was  Senator Murphy  who pointed out that when people travel tourist class these days they are treated like cattle. This is so, and the remark applies not just to Qantas. Qantas is trying to stay in the big league when it has no right to do so. I think that it is now  10  years since I first advocated that Qantas should get out of the International Air Transport Association. Not one innovation has been introduced by Qantas without its waiting for someone else to show it the way. As with any other Government department, if any suggestion is made to it as to how to improve its services, you are always wrong because it knows best. In due course, it filters through to the airline that perhaps it does not know best and it does something. 
I now refer to the cheap tourist fares to London. Obviously, millions of people in Australia want to take a cheap return trip to Europe or London. Yet nothing was done for them until the last year or so. Admittedly, this state of affairs has been altered. But again, because Qantas insisted on staying with IATA, people do not receive the service that they could receive from, say, Singapore Airlines. The contrast between the  2  airlines is so great that one wonders whether any member of the Qantas board has ever travelled tourist class. If he had, he would be ashamed of himself. If a person travels by Singapore Airlines or Malaysia Airlines, as it was, or even by Thai Airways International he is treated as a person. I am treated as a person on such flights conducted by Qantas only because I happen to be a senator. If I were not a senator, I would not receive half the privileges I do receive when travelling tourist. 
Let us face the position: It is only because we are senators and because Ministers hold the positions they hold that everything is pushed our way. But the ordinary man in the street receives nothing. As I said, if you travel by Singapore Airlines, they treat you as someone. In fact, the airline over-feeds you. Qantas has the nasty habit quite often of serving sandwiches. The position is the reverse with Singapore Airlines. Every time an aircraft goes into the air - it may have been flying for only  4  hours - a meal is served. Little facilities, such as hot towels, are provided. These little things help you on your way. Qantas might give you one, then forget about you for the rest of the journey. Every time an aircraft of Singapore Airlines takes off the passengers are given hot towels. Also, passengers are served with cold drinks. Before every meal - as I said, there are far too many of them - passengers are served with a choice of champagne or beer. 
I am not  talking  about first-class. I am talking about economy-class. When it is suggested to Qantas that it would be a good idea to serve Australian wines to boost their consumption, the answer received is that it cannot do that because it has an agreement with LATA. All the time we are told that Qantas has to be a member of IATA. What has IATA done for Qantas? All it has done is get the airline into debt. When a meal is served on a Singapore Airlines flight it is accompanied by French wines. There is a choice of 2 wines - red or white. They are excellent wines. Passengers do not receive that at all in Qantas tourist class. So I think quite definitely that the time has come when Qantas should part from IATA. There is not one reason why it should stay with IATA except to establish Qantas as one of the fraternity of airline companies. But it does not help the customer. That is the person I am talking about. We could have much lower fares. But every time we talk about low fares Qantas says that it cannot be done. Then, when other airlines do it, it finds that it can be done and it follows suit. 
There is also another matter I wish to raise, that of early bird travel or, as I think it is called now, 'advanced booking'. A traveller can fly from London to New York on advance booking for about $100 return or some such phenomenal sum. When we ask Qantas why it cannot provide a similar service between Australia and London, we are told that IATA has not agreed to it and that it has to wait for IATA. When good service and low fares are provided, aircraft are full. Let honourable senators try to travel on Singapore Airlines. This is the point I am trying to make: Now we have a new board for Qantas. The only thing I have against  Sir Donald  Anderson was that he had no right to wear 2 caps. Now that they have taken one away from him I hope that he will do a decent job. I think that he will if he will get out and travel tourist class occasionally to see what it is like to be one of the herd. The basis of all good management is to know what the customers are suffering or benefiting from. My main theme, of course, is that it is time we had lower fares. We should be able to get them much lower than they are today. 
I hope the Qantas management is not gulled by cries about the environment. To a certain extent I am  a  conservationist, but I realise it is the in thing now to be a conservationist. The local controversy here makes me laugh. It is about - what is it called? - Black Mountain. I have seen people parading out in front of Parliament House because the Government is going to put a concrete tower up there. There are 2 towers on Black Mountain already. 
That is right. What is the difference between putting up a concrete tower and an ordinary tower? I am only using this as an example to show that conservation is going haywire. This brings me to the point about Qantas: If ever a country needed an aircraft such as the Concorde it is Australia. This is one country in the world which should have that aircraft because we are so  far  away from everyone else. The Concorde, whatever may be said against it, at least will get us where we are going more quickly. We have to balance our environmental factors and our utility factors. I hope that Qantas is not pressured by the Minister for the Environment  (Dr Cass)  into not accepting the Concorde, because I think it is needed. 
Do not ask me. It is 1,200 miles per hour, I think. It is somewhere about that. It is about twice the speed of sound. This is the sort of plane which we need for Australia. If travel were cheap on that plane just imagine how it would be filled. There are many people here with relations in other countries. A related matter about which I want to speak is what happens when one gets off an aircraft. I have already spoken about the nonsensical, stupid and irrelevant method of spraying a plane when it lands in Australia. I do not want to harp on this subject but, as I have said before, this is one of the stupidest things I have ever seen. One is hot and tired. The plane lands but one waits for 2 able bodied men, each with 2 cans in their hands, to walk along the aircraft and spray it. When I asked why the hostesses could not do the job as they do in other countries I was told: 'No, we are not going to let any disease into Australia'. The doors have been opened already and the little insects have been crawling out while the men have been walking in. The aircrafts all have lockers now so the men are spraying the lockers instead of the inside shelves. This is completely fatuous and stupid. But we keep on doing it. At least this shows that the Department of Health is on its toes and looking after our interests completely. Other countries do not do this at all. If they do their air hostesses do it before the plane lands. Why cannot the captain of an aircraft be responsible enough to see that this is done, as one of his jobs on landing - like putting the wheels down. He could have the plane sprayed. But of course we cannot do that here because I presume it would cause a reduction in the staff of the Department of Civil Aviation. The Department would have to take about 10 men from each aerodrome. 
I am sorry, the Department of Health. 
Yes, the honourable senator is right. I have attacked the Department of Civil Aviation on this point but it is a Department of Health matter. The passenger gets off the plane and goes through Customs. I mentioned this matter several years ago and I was ridiculed in this chamber. I was told that what I suggested was utter nonsense and could not be done. Within 9 months the then Minister promptly did it. When I reminded him he said: 'We were going to do it anyhow'. 
No, it was not  Senator Cotton.  It was the Minister who preceded him. I am going to ask the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  to come with me to the airport one Sunday morning when about three 707 aircraft arrive at the same time so that he can see the crowds trying to get through Customs. We had the form altered. We were told that this could not be done but it has been done. Now one has to sign a form which states what one is not allowed to bring in. One reads this form. I happened to be next to a man at the Customs desk at the airport. The Customs officer asked him whether he had this, that or the other. He said no. The Customs man said OK. I said to him: 'I have not got them either.' He said: T am sorry, but I have to ask you the exact questions.' I said: 'But I have already signed this document saying that I have not got these things.' The Customs officer said: 'That does not matter. I have to ask you.' So he proceeded to ask the 3 questions. That is bureaucracy. I said: 'Why do you have to ask me when I have already signed the form?' He answered: 'It is to impress upon you that you are not to bring these things in.' I said: T have just read it.' Why cannot Australia do this like any other sophisticated nation, for example the United Kingdom? When one goes there there is a big notice which states that one is not allowed to bring in certain things. If one does not have them one goes one way but if one does have them one goes another way. There is a red door and a green door. Customs officers do only a spot check. The country does not suffer any loss of revenue. 1 think there were an adequate number of Customs officers at the airport. There must have been 12 or 14. But because of all the planes coming in together, behind each officer there were about 20 or 30 passengers. Each one had to be asked these 3 or 4 questions by the officers. Is there anything more stupid than that? This is a simple suggestion but it would help to get people through. Why do they have to be asked? They have signed the form. If spot checks were done on a few passengers the crowds would be passed through quickly. One really has to go to the airport to see the inefficiency. People are expecting passengers off an aircraft. No announcement is made about the door through which the passengers are coming. The people who are expecting the passengers are wondering through which door they will come. They may be watching one door and the passenger comes out the other door and he is missed altogether. The whole set-up needs looking at. But do honourable senators think that I can get anyone to do anything about it, I know that these are all simple things but they are all irritant. They are bureaucratic. They should be abolished. I have just raised those points. The main point, is that I hope that Qantas will provide us with fares even lower than we have now. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister who is representing the Minister for Services and Property, whoever that may be. 
Is  the  Minister aware  that  25  per  cent  of the  cars  in the  Commonwealth pool  in  Canberra  are  unusable because  of  lack  of  service facilities? 
Secondly, why does the Government purchase Cars from a company which is not prepared to employ enough staff to service these cars? 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Would the Minister inquire into the extent of regulations and controls imposed on advertising agencies by the media owners through the Australian Media Accreditation Authority. 
Have there been a number of complaints from advertising agencies at the extent of control which the Australian Media Accreditation Authority has over advertising agencies' normal business activities. 
If, on investigation, these controls are found to be in any way unfair, would the Minister refer the papers to the Attorney-General. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
My Department is aware of the rules governing accreditation of advertising agencies by the Media Council of Australia through the Australian Media Accreditation Authority. 
Some advertising agencies have expressed concern over some aspects of Australian Media Accreditation Authority rules. 
My Department has been informed that representatives of the Australian Media Accreditation Authority are scheduled in the near future to have meetings with representatives of the advertising agency industry on the subject of the Australian Media Accreditation Authority rules. Any decision to involve the Department of the Media in inquiries on this subject will be deferred until the outcome of those meetings is known. 
I wish to ask a question of you,  Mr President.  It refers to urgency motions. I think it was about 2 years ago that some discussion took place in this chamber about the form in which urgency motions are moved. Has anything been done by the Standing Orders Committee in regard to this matter? I ask that because people listening to debates on urgency motions think it is rather peculiar that the Senate should spend 3 hours discussing whether it is going to sit one minute earlier than normal the next day. Could something not be done about the matter? There must be a few people with brains in this chamber who could evolve a different form of urgency motion from the rather stupid one that we go on with. 
I am afraid that I am going to bore a lot of people because I am going to repeat my talk on national health. I propose to keep on talking about national health until I get some sanity amongst the members of this Parliament. I do not refer particularly to supporters of the Government nor to Opposition senators because both are equally to blame in certain respects for what has gone on in the past. 
-Yes-practically. Having adjusted my halo, let me inform the Senate that at least I know my subject. Tonight I might digress a little. First, let me talk about fees which should be the last thing to be talked about in regard to a national health scheme. What we should be talking about is the betterment of the deal for the patient. But let us get the matter of fees out of the way first because this is the subject to which the Government keeps on reverting in the course of their fight with the Australian Medical Association. As I have said before, there is no doubt that, prior to the passing of the National Health Act, doctors were in a far better financial position than they are today. . 
When I started to practice medicine the basic wage was about two pounds ten shillings a week- the equivalent of $5 a week. The consultation fee was the equivalent of $1. Therefore, in order to have kept pace with average weekly earnings, the present consultation fee should be $20. That increase would just provide for inflation. So when we hear Government senators saying that people cannot afford to go to a doctor, my reply is that I have never heard such twaddle and such utter rot and imbecility. Who cannot afford to pay $4 to see a doctor? People can afford to pay all they want for their washing machines, television sets, etc. But when it comes to a matter of their health or life they say that they cannot afford to pay $4 or, in the case for some people, $5. So I refute the theory that is given emphasis by the Government that people cannot afford to go to a doctor and therefore they have to remain sick. Government supporters forget that if people do not want to go to a doctor there is no reason why they should not go to the public hospitals which are provided by governments. Those facilities are provided so ineptly, of course, that people do not want to go to the public hospitals. When we come to examine the question of fees, we forget that the Australian Medical Association and the doctors never asked for the national health scheme. As I said, the doctors were quite happy in the days when they earned a lot more although bad debts were of the order of 33 per cent. Having introduced a scheme, the Government said that it would contribute to it. No-one asked it to contribute but this was a good political gambit. The Government then in power- the Liberal-Country Party Government- wanted votes. 
I said that I intended to talk about fees first. I shall come to the patient. 
-I will come to his in a minute. I think that the honourable senator was interjecting when I said that I should not be talking about fees. However, I said that I wanted to get that over because the essence of the matter is the betterment of facilities for the patient. 
-Right. What is forgotten is that having entered the field of national health the Government then became perturbed by the cost of the scheme to the Government. Therefore, it tried to stop any increase because it meant that the Government would have to increase its share of the cost. Therefore, according to the Government any rise in fees is detrimental to the scheme because it has to pay more. Of course, the Government forgets that in the meantime the doctors have paid towards the cost of keeping concessional patients such as repatriation patients and pensioners charging only two-thirds of the ordinary fees for them. 
Yes. Doctors treated such patients  for nothing  when we had a 33 per cent bad debt. We have the Government saying that fees cannot be increased because that will cost it more money. The Government then says that therefore the doctors have no right to put up their fees without arbitration. I do not think any doctor would refuse to go to arbitration if he could trust any government. When I say 'government', I mean a government from either side of the Parliament. It was the previous Government that the chemists could not trust. This is the reason why the doctors will not trust any government. The chemists agreed with the previous Government that any dispute over their fees would go to arbitration. They went to arbitration. The arbitrator said that the fees should be increased. The Government said that the arbitrator had assessed the position wrongly and refused an increase. When a government acts like that, how could any government be trusted to abide by the result of arbitration? When it suits a government it says: 'You must have arbitration'. When it does not suit it, it says: 'There is something wrong with the arbitration'. I leave the subject of fees, I wish to deal with one other aspect of the matter. Unfortunately, we have the report of the economists, Scotton and Deeble. If they were only doctors, I may have some time for them. Furthermore, I do not have much time for people who advance schemes with the idea that they will get the jobs that are envisaged in those schemes. I view such people with grave suspicion. Surely the most important point is not the question of fees for general practitioners but for the better training and the better provision of general practitioners. That is essential if there is to be a national health scheme. I am not opposing the national health scheme because we will have one. What I am trying to do is to get it into the heads of those on the Government side of the chamber who are now in power - 
Let me make my speech. I want to get through a lot of material without boring too many people. The point is this: We need more general practitioners and we need better general practitioners. That is what we should have in a national health scheme. The Scotton and Deeble greeen paper does not devote one sentence to the betterment of general practitioners or to increasing the number of general practitioners. It disregards this matter which to me is essential. Unfortunately,  Senator Milliner  is not present in the Senate chamber. He thinks I should have a halo on my head because I am the only one who knows what 1 am talking about. If he were here, I think he would agree that what I am saying is correct if we are to have a national health scheme which will be of some pride to the nation. Apparently we are not interested in improving the national health scheme under the Scotton and Deeble report. All we are interested in is economics. No matter what happens a national health scheme is going to be introduced and surely we should bring in a scheme that is worth while for the people of Australia. The first point is that you cannot run a national health scheme without doctors. Members of the Labor Party should know that as I will indicate in a minute of two when I refer to their proposed new scheme. 
How do we get more general practitioners? The Government that did most harm by reducing the number of general practitioners in Australia was the Gorton Government. I have a lot of time for John Gorton but he damaged Australia by decreasing the number of people interested in becoming GPs. He did this by introducing the differential rate. This Government knows that but it will not remove the differential rate. Every honourable senator who lives in the country sees his GP. Probably he is the person who does operations and confinements. You go to him because you have no one else to go to. I suppose that about 50 per cent of the honourable senators who live in the cities would go to their general practitioner in the same way. Why is the general practitioner not paid the same rate as the specialist? He is doing exactly the same work. Is the Government going to abide by this differential rate for specialists and GPs? Does it have a grudge against general practitioners in country areas? The general practitioners might say: 'Why should we operate and why should we deliver your wife's babies?' Why should they do this work when they are not paid the same rate? It is the same job. Are they not doing it efficiently? Every honourable senator who lives in the country knows that his doctor does his work efficiently. If he did not they would not go to him. Yet honourable senators sit back here and do nothing about this. No one is interested. 
-That differential rate was the fault of the last Government. John Gorton brought it in and he had no right to do so. 
-I shall come to that in a minute. The honourable senator is ahead of me. He is one ahead of me all the time. The first point to consider is the differential fee. If the Government abolishes differential fees doctors will go into general practice. Why be a GP now after getting a degree and go out into the country? Why do that when by getting a senior degree you can get a higher rate of pay? After all, that only takes a couple of years more of theory. If you are good at theory you can get a senior degree. However that doctor may not have practical ability when compared with the old GP who has been doing that type of work all his life and who does not have the higher degree. 
The first thing to do is to remove the differential rates but the Government will not do so. I keep on asking it to do so but it does not bother because it does not care 2 hoots. Yet every time Government supporters talk to their own doctors in country areas they say that they should be paid the same rate as the specialist because they are delivering children or are removing tonsils just as a specialist does. However the Government will not do this. The absurdity is that GPs remove small things like sebaceous cysts. Very few surgeons do that work because they regard it as being below their dignity. After all a doctor gets only $4 or $5 for that operation whereas for an appendectomy they can get up to $50. The specialists do not worry about small things and the GP does them. He has practical experience in removing sebaceous cysts. However, under the national health scheme specialists will do this work and get $5 to $10 more although probably they have had less practice. Usually such operations are done by GPs. The whole thing stinks but we cannot get anything done. 
I wanted to speak ahead of  Senator Douglas  McClelland, the Minister for the Media, but I gave way to him. He read his speech and now he is not here to listen to me. He is the Minister representing the Minister for Health and I told him that I was going to speak on health matters. I am just wasting my time because who reads Hansard? 
-The Minister who is present, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  has done a very good job. There were Ministers in other governments who did not know their jobs when appointed and they still did not know them at the end of their time. I must say that  Senator Wiedt  has tried to get a grasp of his responsibilities. Everyone knows he is not a farmer. The previous government did not appoint a doctor as Minister for Health, and so on. So do not criticise anyone for doing his best. If they are doing their best what more can they do? The next step in getting more doctors is to stop this absurdity of requiring academic qualifications for entry into universities. All honourable senators know that if a person wants to go to a university he has to be in an academic list. The number of entrants is decided by quota. This leaves out a lot of people capable of becoming good GPs. These are the people we want. A person does not need brains to be a GP. I am one. The point is that a good GP does not have to be academically brilliant. At last, after many years, I think one university in Sydney is recognising this point and is going to alter its system and help people who wish to enter the medical profession although not given priority on the academic list. 
-I do not know but I understand it is to be done. Those responsible believe that there is more value in a person being dedicated than there is in academic qualifications. A scheme is being worked out. I am not sure which university is doing this but it is in New 
South Wales. This should be encouraged because there are many people who cannot get into the universities because they are not on the academic list who would be good GPs. I told the Senate this last time and I tell it again. I did a locum in Deniliquin and found that there were 2 good Indian doctors there. There was an Indian doctor 27 miles away; there was another Indian doctor 60 miles away; and another Indian doctor 47 miles away. The reason for their being there is that Australian doctors cannot be obtained. The universities are stopping the training of Australians. Do not tell me that entrants to universities have to be academically sound. If a person has matriculated he has passed the standard set for entrance to universities. The responsibility falls back on the Government to provide more places for people wishing to enter medical courses. 
Any government; the last government and this Government. More doctors have to be provided. 
-Oh come on! From 1 January all tertiary education is to be free. I am trying to emphasise that the Government should ensure that there will be more room for Australians to take part in the medical profession instead of having foreign people, good as they are, taking over from our Australian boys. 
-I think it is a furphy or a myth that the AMA tries to cut down on the number of doctors. The AMA has no say whatsoever. If the Government says that it will pay for X number of places for medical students the university will take them. After all it is the council of convocation of the university which runs the university and I hope it will not be influenced by a body such as the AMA. 
-I do not know. 
-I do not know but when I went through there were 1 10 of us who started the first year and 55 completed the final year. The only reason I got through was because they wanted 56 residents. Only 55 got through so I had to be one of them. It was wonderful. I was in a lucky year. The third point I want to make relates to academic training. All the training in universities is specialist oriented. Where the Government is wrong is that in its new scheme, which I will come to in a minute, it is putting the cart before the horse. What it should be doing is insisting that there be a department of general practice in every university. The Australian Medical Association and the College of General Practitioners have been trying to get this but there is no support anywhere. The AMA is really not interested in the idea. It gives a sort of lip service to it. But unless there is a department of general practice how are we going to get boys interested in general practice? So the first essential thing is to let people who want to be doctors go to the university if they have matriculated and the second thing is to have a department of general practice to train them in general practice. The tendency now, which I hope will be intensified, is that all undergraduates should serve 2 to 4 weeks as part of their training in a general practice under what we call preceptors so that they can learn what general practice is all about instead of having it pooh-poohed by the specialists when they are going through their training in hospital. 
-Yes. Now the honourable senator is getting on to my hobby. I do not think that anyone should be allowed to specialise until he has done 5 years in general practice. He should get his degree first. That is an economic reason. He must get his degree because after 5 years he will have about 3 children hanging around and then it is very difficult to sit down and do a senior degree. The thing to do is to get a degree for surgery or medicine but one should not be allowed to be a specialist until one has done 5 years in general practice. I am all for that. This brings me to the scheme which the Department of Health has just announced. The Department will now assist postgraduate doctorssecond, third or fourth year residents- by paying 40 per cent of their fees to go into general practice. As I said before, this is putting the cart before the horse but I cannot get people to listen. I spoke to  Dr Sax  about this. He said: 'Well, perhaps it is, but it is something which we can do. ' I said: ' Why can you not set up a department of general practice? Why can you not train undergraduates?' An announcement was made in a big Press statement about what the Government is going to do. It will provide 40 per cent of the fees to allow a third year resident medical officer who receives $8,000 a year to go for one, two or three months with a general practitioner. Firstly, of course, he will act as an assistant. He will sit in with the doctor. This means that the doctor sees fewer patients and there will be a further banking up of patients. There will be further irritation all round. Also this resident will be used as a locum, which is not a bad thing anyhow. But these people can say: 'No, we will not go into your scheme, but will assist the same doctor as a locum and receive $ 12,000 a year'. So the scheme is absurd at the beginning. The Department will subsidise a resident to the extent of 40 per cent. He will go at his resident's salary into general practice whereas he could go as an assistant to a general practitioner and receive perhaps twice as much. The scheme is wrong in its concept. This is a good idea but surely that is not the basic thing which should happen. We have to get GPs. We have to train them. They have to like general practice and start right at the beginning. As I said, we need more and better GPs. Instead of this postgraduate resident medical officer going into practice the Government should insist by law that every general practitioner must attend a postgraduate course every 4 or 5 years. Medicine advances so quickly these days that we have to go - 
-That is economically impossible. There has to be a post training course. In the College of General Practitionersas honourable senators may remember- so many hours of postgraduate training have to be done each year. It can be done by attending lunch hour or evening lectures. But that is not sufficient. Every few years- say 5 for the sake of argument- this Government instead of subsidising resident medical officers to be assistant GPs when they do not want to be because they can get a higher salary by being locums should be subsidising resident medical officers to act as locums while the GPs go into hospital for a fortnight. I do not mean that a GP has to be a resident medical officer, but he should go through an approved syllabus of training for general training. That is essential. 
When I go out in practice now I have to look up authorities to find answers. Medicine moves too fast for anyone these days. It is no shame that we cannot keep up with everything. Let me tell honourable senators that general practice is far harder than any specialty because one has to know everything. It is like being a Minister in this chamber. The Ministers in the other place have one portfolio. The Ministers in this chamber- are doing a damn good job, as did Ministers in the previous Government- have to learn five or six departments. That is the difference between a GP and a specialist. It means that a GP must be given more training and must be allowed to train more. Some of them cannot do this but if the Government were to say: 'We will pay you for a fortnight' what would the cost matter? The people of Australia will have a service which is far better than the present scheme which the Government has put up and which I think is putting the cart before the horse. 
We all talk about community centres. But what has the Government done about helping the present private practitioners with their communities? It is all very well to set up 2 community health centres in Canberra and say: 'We will run them.' The Government has the money to do this. But why does it not do this in the country where such centres are needed and not here where they are not needed? This is what gets me all the time. The Government does not do any thing for the people who really have a need. Honourable senators admit in their hearts that this should be done but the Government will not do anything. General practitioners, in order to be made better GPs, should be allowed to go into public hospitals. I have been fighting for this for years. At last the AMA has agreed that this should be done. 
It is like the honourable senator's association or his Party. The point is that GPs have not been allowed to go into public hospitals because the specialists have refused to allow them to go in. That is the basic reason. 
-I know they have not but any government, whether Labor or Liberal, will not support the suggestion that GPs should be allowed into public hospitals. I have been trying to get this accepted even in Tasmania but I cannot do it. I cannot get the Labor Party to understand. There is tremendous hypocrisy in the Labor Party in relation to this matter. 
I will come on to you if you like. But the Labor Party is in government at the moment. It says that there should not be GPs in hospitals. Of the people in the hospitals, 70 per cent need only GP care. They do not need specialist care. They can be treated quite well by their general practitioner. Why do many poor people go into private hospitals? Is it for better treatment? I should not think so. I think honourable senators will find that once one gets into a public hospital one has the best of everythingexcept food. People go into private hospitals because they want their own doctors. The hypocrisy from both sides of this chamber- but I must admit more so on the Labor side- is that honourable senators themselves go to private hospitals. I challenge everyone in this chamber on this matter. I bet that 90 per cent of honourable senators or their wives or other members of their families in their last illnesses went into private hospitals. I ask honourable senators to stop and think. 
What about your wives and families? 
-I will withdraw that statement and say 60 per cent. Let me put it this way: When I was a Minister in Tasmania I raised this same question with Cabinet- there were nine of us- because I knew that eight of them, or their wives or children, had been in a private hospital rather than a public hospital. Why do Government senators allow something for themselves which they deny to the poor? It is the honourable senators on this side of the chamber who should not be allowing such a thing to occur. 
I may have picked on the wrong bunch of people. Many Labor Party members go into private hospitals. I know a few Labor senators who have just come out of private hospitals because I have been told by representatives of the hospitals concerned. 
All right, it was their wives or their children. 
-I will withdraw from that argument, but as far as I am aware a considerable number - 
-No, they are just the same. 
-I am not attacking Liberal Party members because they do not say they support the poor; it is supposed to be the Labor Party members who do so. Labor Party members demand certain treatment for themselves which they deny to the poor. This is what gets on my goat every time. 
-Senator Little went into the best private hospital that I have seen run by a government. 
It was the only hospital the honourable senator could have gone into because the psychiatric hospital was full and I could not get him in there. He asked for that. I now turn to the community health system which has been established in Canberra. When it was decided to set up these 2 community health centres, the idea was that one would be run by private doctors and the other would be run under a salaried or nationalised scheme. The document containing the proposals was sent to me to read. I was very kindly asked to give my comments on them, which I did. It was proposed to have 4 doctors in each of the nationalised centres. I said: What you need is 8 doctors in a nationalised centre and 3 instead of 4 doctors in a private centre'. What has happened? This is just about to be done. Advertisements have been placed for more doctors for the nationalised community health centre because the doctors in that centre have to see only one patient every 20 minutes. That is wonderful. 
But that is Parkinson's law. When the work is spread over the hours available, that is applying the principles of Parkinson's law. This is the attitude taken in any typical public service, be it Commonwealth or State: 'Because we have very few patients, let us extend the time spent on each patient'. The theorists, the idealists, can say that 20 minutes spent on each patient is wonderful because this allows the doctor to give a lot of time to each patient. But let us get down to the practicalities of the situation. In general practice a doctor cannot spend 20 minutes on each patient. It is just an impossibility. A doctor may have to spend 40 minutes on some patients, but it does not take more than 5 to 10 minutes to deal with a patient who has a sore throat or a rash, and these are the patients who comprise the bulk of his practice. If a doctor has an appointment sheet allowing 20 minutes for each patient, this means that he can see 24 people a day if he works an 8-hour day. But the doctor is supposed to do visits as well. The usual surgery hours are 3 hours in the morning and 3 hours in the afternoon. 
-No, I am speaking about government doctors under a nationalised scheme. I suggested that the number of doctors in the nationalised centre should be doubled, whereas the number in the private centre should be cut down because the doctors in the nationalised centre do not have any incentive at all to see patients at a greater rate than one every 20 minutes. This is how the national health centres are operating. Just think what will happen when the national health scheme is introduced if no incentive is given to the doctor. 
I want to deal with private hospitals because this is where the Government is making a grave error. It will not listen to suggestions. In the last sentence in the paragraph dealing with private hospitals the Scotton and Deeble report states: We will let them continue until we can virtually nationalise them'. That is what will happen. Why is it that a person finds it difficult to get a bed in a private hospital? It is because people want their own doctors and they want to go into private hospitals. But the Government says: 'No, you cannot have your own doctor. You cannot have a private bed. We are going to abolish private beds'. This is what the Government intends to do. But why abolish them? If somebody wants a choice, surely it does not matter that he goes into a private hospital. It does not matter 2 hoots that the doctor is making money. The Government gets most of it by way of income tax. All this talk about doctors making a fortune is nonsense because it is well known that with provisional tax he pays tax at the rate of 66-2/3 per cent. So what does it matter if the doctor does make a lot of money? The Government will get it by way of income tax in order to help it pay social service benefits. 
-No, 1 do not believe that. 
-That is true, and I cannot understand it, because many Government supporters - 
I cannot say whether it is 90 per cent, but many Labor supporters- I have had many Labor supporters as my patients -go into private hospitals and they do not want to go into public hospitals. They could have the best surgeons and the best physicians in a public hospital, but they prefer to go into a private hospital where they can have their own doctor treating them. That is what they want and that is what the Government will deny them. 
-I know they have, and Labor senators have been in private hospitals, although all the Labor senators in the chamber deny this. 
-I cannot understand it. 
-No, I do not have a view. I just think they are crazy to do this; that is all. 
I have been saying this for years. The point is that, if people want to go into a private hospital, why should they not? Why should the Government stop them from doing so. What does the Government have against private hospitals? Many of these private hospitals are run by religous orders. They are not out to make huge profits. Some of them do not even make a profit. But the Government wants to abolish them. Why does it want to do this? There are not enough hospital beds at the moment and the Government goes on about private hospitals as if they were some infectious disease which it wanted to get rid of. 
I do not want to speak for too long about pharmaceutical benefits because I have been at the Government about this matter previously. The Minister for the Media, who is at the table, knows more about the National Health Act than anyone else I know. I must say that during the Committee stage of our consideration of the National Health Bill the Minister surprised me by his knowledge of the provisions of the Bill. 1 am not buttering him up, because he does not damn well listen to me. I ask the Minister to listen to me. That is why I want him in the chamber while I am making my speech. When the National Health Bill was before the chamber the Labor Party supported a couple of amendments that I proposed, but the amendments were defeated when the Democratic Labor Party changed its attitude. Yet the Labor Party has been in government for nearly a year and it has not done anything about these matters. Why does it not do something? 
In relation to pharmaceutical benefits, how many honourable senators- I have asked this question before- would prefer to believe their own doctor rather than a doctor who lives in Sydney, Hobart or one of the capital cities? Every honourable senator knows damn well that if his own doctor told him that he should take drug A that is the drug he would take without waiting for a Government medical officer who has not even seen him, has not seen his family and does not know anything about his history to write and say: 'Yes, he can have that drug'. 
That is the way it works now. Do not tell me that I do not know what I am talking about. This is what irritates me. If a doctor prescribes intal, the law provides at the moment that he must write to the Commonwealth doctor in Sydney, if the patient being treated lives in New South Wales, to obtain the Commonwealth doctor's permission. Is that not right? 
I am asking honourable senators on the Government side to remove this stupid - 
I prescribe it, but the patient is not allowed to have it without approval. The honourable senator does not understand. 
-I prescribe it because I think the patient needs it. Permission can be refused- it never has been refused- by a doctor located 400 miles away. Is that correct? 
It is. Does the honourable senator think then that the patient should pay $8 instead of $ 1 for the drug? 
Then I do not know what the honourable senator is arguing about. 
All right. If I prescribe intal for a child who I think needs it, he cannot get it under the National Health Act unless the Commonwealth doctor in the capital city of the State in which I am practising gives his approval. 
-No. Therefore, that brings me to the next point. Why is it necessary to obtain his approval? Why do we have to do it? I remind honourable senators that 19,000 prescriptions for intal have been lodged with the Commonwealth doctors for approval and none of them has been refused. I mentioned this last time I spoke on this matter. Why do we have to doit? 
-That is right. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the amendments to the Quarantine Plant Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1973 (No. IS 1) and made under the Quarantine Act 1908-69 be disallowed. 
I wish to ask a question but I am not sure whether I should ask it of you,  Mr President,  or the Leaders of the parties. It concerns the Budget Estimates. We have had a trial period of 3 years of considering the details of the Budget in Estimates Committees rather than in the Committee of the Whole and I was wondering whether there was any opinion in the House as to which is the better system. I personally prefer the old system. Has there been any chance of honourable senators having a say on this matter? What has been done about it? Under the old system at least we were all together and went through every item. The present system seems to be pretty loose and not very workable. 
-by leave- 1 would like to add congratulations to  Senator Gair  on behalf of the independent senators but mainly on my own behalf because I have been associated with him much longer than have the other two. If ever we had a grand old man of politics we have him here now.  His  humour, his sense of justice, his very pertinent and pungent wit in interjections, I think, have put fear into members of this chamber. I hope that he will be here for at least 3 more years; that is, of course, if the Democratic Labor Party does not arrange a double dissolution, a matter about which he has not yet told us. I hope that he does not arrange a double dissolution yet so that we may continue to enjoy Vince Gair's humour and attitudes in this Parliament. I wish him well and hope he has many more years to go. I hope that his next 3 years here will be the happiest of his political life, when he will not have to worry very much about anything. If ever a man deserved an honour from his country, this man does. It is unfortunate, of course, that honours have been discontinued by the present Government, but perhaps when it institutes the new honours, he will be the first to receive the Order of the Kangaroo. I hope that he gets some recognition by the Commonwealth Government. We also extend our congratulations to the new leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator McManus)  and to his officers, paid and unpaid, and wish them well in the future. 
I have had to Listen to this debate in my room and in this chamber. We could have passed two or three Bills during the time we have had to listen to this hypocrisy. I have been here for 1 1 years, and when the Opposition was in government it did exactly the same thing. 
OK. At least my record is as good as  Senator Young's  record, and if he wants to check it he can do so. The trouble is that Opposition senators do not realise that they are the Opposition; they will not give in. They know as well as I do that the moment the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party have spoken, that is it, but Opposition senators keep on talking because they have got to talk. The 2 worst offenders in this chamber are invariably  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Webster.  Not one subject is debated in this chamber without these 2 gentlemen getting up and talking as if they are the only heaven sent orators, sent by God to dispense their knowledge to this chamber. I believe they do not realise that this talking ad nauseam give them the characteristics of bores. They have become bores in this chamber. I am sorry to attack you personally, but you are the 2 members in this chamber who cause - 
-Senator Webster gets up and talks on every subject as though he knows everything about it. We have been debating this subject since 4 o'clock this afternoon. We could have passed two or three Bills in that time. If the Government wants these changes, let it have them. When the Opposition was in government we let it have its changes. It made changes as often as it wished. There is the hypocrisy about bringing in the guillotine for 41 Bills. What did the Oppostion do when it was in government? At the end of every session - 
-Senator Greenwood bores us not only with his repetition, but also with his interjections. When in government the Opposition did exactly the same thing as this Government is doing. I have sat here for 11 years, and at the end of every session the present Opposition introduced 30 or 40 Bills. One of the most important Bills affecting this country was the oil Bill. The previous Government insisted that the Bill be passed in, I think, 6 hours. The Bill had to be passed that night so that the previous Government could sell our assets to a foreign-owned company. That is what the previous Government did. Now that it is in Opposition it forgets all about that occasion because it has a point which it thinks it can raise, and it keeps on raising the point. For God's sake, 

 Senator Greenwood, stop all this stupid rot and this stupid repetition and instead talk on a subject about which you know something instead of being the know-all about every subject which is raised in the chamber. If those 2 gentlemen whom I have mentioned were to stop speaking so frequently, we could pass about 40 Bills in the time taken up by their speeches. One has only to check the Hansard to see how many hours they speak. 
I do not quite agree with the proposed sitting times, but if that is the way the Government wants it, let the Government have it. I do not mind how the vote on the motion goes. 
What rot! I am either here or in my room. 
I have not done a locum in Canberra for 3 years. If the honourable senator wishes to check that statement he can do so quite easily, but I have not done a locum in Canberra in the last 3 years. 
I go to Alice Springs only when the Senate has risen. What I do in my time is my business. I do not have to canvass the electorate trying to get No. 2 position on the ticket in order to be elected to the Senate. I can get elected on my own, without having to worry about little political differences and where I am put on the ticket.  Senator Webster  is No. 3 on the ticket. I presume he thinks that by speaking on every subject the country will believe that he is the greatest orator in this chamber. 
I am not jealous. I am retiring of my own free will. 
-Jealous of what? You? For heaven's sake, why should I be jealous of the biggest bore in this Parliament? That is a title to which I do not aspire. I think the number of times I speak in this chamber can be counted on the fingers of one hand. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Order! The Senate will come to order, and the  speaker  will address the Chair. 
I am trying to address the Chair, but I seem to be getting so many interjections. If we are honest with ourselves we will realise that the opposition to the motion is just another hoo-ha by the Opposition. The Democratic Labor Party will support the motion. The Opposition keeps arguing about the motion and says that we have not the time to debate Bills. I think the Opposition accused the Government of wanting a full day session on Wednesday because that is the day on which the Senate proceedings are broadcast. Has that not been the position for years? Now the Opposition brings on urgency motions on Wednesdays when the proceedings are broadcast. All the time the Government and the Opposition are trying to score points off each other instead of realising that this is part of the political game which they have to play. 
I wish to make a point about the 7 p.m. adjournment on Tuesdays and Thursdays. I am all for that in one respect. I think I have spoken twice during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. The earlier adjournment will give me an opportunity to speak twice a week on that debate. 
I am entitled to go home when I want to go home. Now that I have no home in Canberra I will remain in the Senate even longer. So I propose to support the motion. 
I would like to add my dissident voice to the rush towards independence in Papua New Guinea. When I first took an interest in Papua New Guinea I was of the opinion that it needed its independence, but the more I studied the country and the more I went up there the more I realised that it was not yet time for independence. It is all very well to say that we have to give independence to Papua New Guinea as fast as possible, but when one looks around the country one can see that the people are not ready for it and many do not want it. Who wants it? The people who really want independence, of course, are the university trained people, the elitist group. They want us to rush into giving independence to Papua New Guinea because they will be the heads of government in the country. I cannot understand why we have to impose our system of democracy on Papua New Guinea. I do not know that our system of democracy is that good. 
-Oh, yes, but it is not so good that the people of Papua New Guinea have to conform to our way of doing things and must have a parliament which is totally different in type from that which they are used to. We are insisting on imposing our morality on the people of Papua New Guinea. Is our morality any better than theirs? We are insisting on Papua New Guinea adopting our education system, and probably our education system is better. For years we have been trying to impose our laws on the people of Papua New Guinea, but are our laws any better than theirs? We are trying to say to them: 'Now you are ready for self government', but one has only to visit the country to see that there are so many separatist movements that it is obvious that after independence is attained the country will be ruled by the army. With the 
Bougainvillians despising the Tolais and the Papuans hating the Highlanders and all New Guineans in toto, there is no doubt in my mind that there will be a blood bath following independence. It will be another Vietnam and the intervening power, instead of being the United States, will have to be Australia. 
-The army will not be dissolved by then because it will be the only means of maintaining law and order in Papua New Guinea, and that will be the most powerful arm in Papua New Guinea. However, that is a question they will have to work out for themselves. I would also like to make a plea for those people who have given so much of their lives to Papua New Guinea. I refer to those despised white people who have lived there. Certainly they may have made a profit from living there, but without them Papua New Guinea would not be where is is today. We are just throwing them to the wolves. They will receive no compensation; they will just have to get out. The fact that they cannot sell their properties there shows, that the Australian people certainly do not want to start farming in that territory. 
The other problem is that once Papua New Guinea attains independence it will be a greater financial burden around our necks than it has been in the past because if we do not give assistance to that country the Japanese will. A problem will arise because our foreign relations with Papua New Guinea will be affected because other countries will be willing to assist it. What the Japanese could not achieve during the war they will certainly achieve economically in the next few years if we do not be firm in our relations with Papua New Guinea. Giving Papua New Guinea independence does not seem to me to be the answer, but it seems the 'in' thing nowadays is that every nation must have its independence whether or not it is ready, and it seems that we have to assist Papua New Guinea towards independence. 
I have spoken before in this House about indigenous doctors. The whole system is wrong. We gave Papua New Guinea a university when all it wanted was schools to train apprentices. Perhaps only about 0 1 per cent of the population had the facility for going to university, so we should have been building more and more technical schools to train the people in these skills first. Then later we could have come to the academic position. But we did not do that. Because one of the Administrators wanted a job for himself there he decided that a university was needed, so we rushed ahead and founded that university, and the standard was lowered because no one in Papua New Guinea could reach matriculation level. The university was started with a matriculation standard lower than is accepted here. That is all right if that is the way that the people of Papua New Guinea want it, but I do not think that they really wanted a university. I think that they would have been much happier if we had built technical schools for them. 
No. We provided a university for about 12 people, or something like that, to start with. It had to have a special first year course to educate the students to reach the standard that had been decided on. The same thing applies to doctors. I have criticised the scheme before. Why provide the people of Papua New Guinea with second-rate doctors? We let them go into that scheme. We did not insist on matriculation and we did not insist on their being trained here. We have given the people a second-rate medical service. Admittedly it is comparable to the feldshers or the barefoot doctors in China but it is not comparable to our system. I think we have failed the people of Papua New Guinea in education and in medicine, and I think we are going to fail them altogether when we hand over independence to them. I feel sorry for the Australian expatriates who have been there for years and have sweated blood for the benefit of Papua New Guinea as well as for their own benefit. 
-They have not made fortunes but they have done all right by themselves and made a good living; and why not? Everyone is entitled to make a living for himself. I still feel sorry that nothing has been done in any of these Bills to make sure that those people are compensated when they want to leave. The Government worries about its public servants but it does not worry about the people in private enterprise who have done so much for Papua New Guinea and who deserve a lot of credit. Anyhow, I wish the new nation well. I hope that my prognostication that there will be a blood bath in a few years does not come true but that is how I see the position in Papua New Guinea. I have been there on only 4 occasions but each time I got more and more disillusioned because I cannot see the people becoming a united nation. The end result is that the Army must take over to control the whole lot and that is when the blood bath starts. 
I apologise for speaking at this time but I have no other way of raising this matter. I want to support what  Senator Withers  has been trying to do by questions to which he has been unable to get an answer from the Government. I wish to point out to this House and to the country that the Australian public- particularly the travelling portion of it- are subject to one of the most colossal frauds ever perpetrated by an Australian company. I refer to certain aspects of the operations of Qantas Airways Ltd. Everyone knows that the number of people in this country who travel to and from the United Kingdom and Europe is growing every year. Yet an Australian company is defrauding Australians and is preventing them from receiving the full benefits of revaluation. Unfortunately it seems to me that the Government is allowing its own company to act in that way. There has been a revaluation of about 25 per cent in the last year or so. The economy class or charter flight fare to Europe was $700. The fares that Qantas set are subject to an agreement with the International Air Transport Association which has determined that the fares are to be paid in American dollars. When the fare in American dollars was $US850 the Australian price was $700. Today the American public is still paying $US850 but in terms of Australian money this amount is roughly $573. This Government has always said that any benefits from revaluation should be passed on to the Australian public. Why then has not the Government seen to it that its own company passes on to the travelling public this reduction in the cost of travel? If this reduction were passed on a married couple would be able to save $250 on tickets bought in the United States or in Europe. 
I think that a lot of people would be happy to do so. But Qantas has now told IATA- and I think that it has the greatest nerve to do so- that it cannot accept fares from an Australian except from the point of origin of the person's passport. If a person has an Australian passport he has to pay his fare in Australian dollars. I think that this practice should be stopped straight away. But if it is stopped another snag arises. There is a financial restriction on the amount of money that one is allowed to send overseas. I think that this amount is about $4,000. The Government would have to relax that restriction to allow people to buy their tickets in London or in America. But why should the public have to go to the trouble of buying their tickets somewhere else, even if Qantas allowed them to do so? 
Qantas is controlled by a board of people who are so old that they let their company lose in the race for charter flights. Suddenly they have been revitalised. They now see that there is a thing called charter flights and they are now really getting into the money. But if the operations of Qantas were subjected to the provisions of the Trade Practices Bill- assuming that we are to pass itthis would be one of the first things that the Government would stop. The Government is trying to bring in a Bill to stop this sort of practice, but will not stop Qantas from engaging in it. Why is not the Government doing something about it? I have said on 3 or 4 occasions that it is time that Qantas got out of IATA. I do not think that that organisation does anything for us. All it does is build up the prestige of the board of directors of Qantas. It does nothing for the travelling public. I think that neither Thai International nor Singapore Airlines is a member of IATA. Despite that, one receives much better service from these 2 companies than one does from Qantas. The food is better, the wine is bettereverything seems to be better. 
Well, Thai International has a tie up with the Scandinavian Airlines System. I think that Malaysian Airlines was a member of the now defunct Malaysia- Singapore Airlines. Singapore Airlines has a tie-up with other organisations. So one can still travel on a world wide basis with these airlines. Although these companies do not belong to IATA they get along quite well and they are making profits. As I have said, Qantas could do very well if it got out of IATA. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  who represents the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation in this place, to tell this chamber some time tomorrow or the next day why it is that the Government is helping Qantas, which is an Australian company, to defraud us. Alexander Barton would be proud of the way in which this company is operating. Yet the Government allows it to go on. The whole of the Qantas board should be sacked for allowing the public - 
-No. Have we got friends on it? 
Well let us not sack the new members. We will leave the new members because they have not had a chance to do anything. But they were on the Board when the revaluation occurred and they must be setting policy at the moment so I ask supporters of the Government to get on to their friends to give me a little support on this matter. Will the Minister please tell us in the next day or two why it is that the travelling public of Australia is being defrauded? It is a fraud because the Government was the first to say that the effects of revaluation should be passed onto the people of Australia. Where is it being passed onto the people? 
Why not refer this matter to the Government's Prices Justification Tribunal? How could this body allow such a practice? It would not dream of allowing it if a private individual was concerned but because Qantas is a government concern the Government lets this practice go on. I understand that because of revaluation Qantas has received a bonus- I am not sure of the figures- in the vicinity of nearly $20m as capital gains. 
It may be too much. I do not know the exact figure. But the Minister could tell us what is the capital gain on Qantas 's loans overseas on which that company now pays low interest or it pays fewer dollars in interest. I ask the Minister to stop this exploitation and to let the people get value for their dollars. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Has he had a reply from the Minister for Transport as to why Australian nationals are not allowed to receive any benefit from revaluation in regard to overseas trips whilst other nationals do receive this benefit? 
I remind the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation that 2 weeks ago I asked him whether he would find out why Australian citizens were penalised to the extent of about 20 per cent in paying for exactly the same service from Sydney to London and return as do other nationals. I was wondering whether the Minister has the answer. 
-I enter this debate because from listening to itand I have been here for most of the afternoonit appears to me that 2 things are coming out of debates not only in relation to foreign affairs but also in relation to nearly all other matters. The first is jealousy of a man who has shown that he is a great leader- whether one agrees with his policies or not- and that the whole world believes this. There is no doubt at all about that. Whether one believes in his policies or not, he has done something for Australia. The second thing is that so many people are scared of being defeated at the next election that the bed - 
Yes there are. There are 3 members of the Australian DemocraticLabor Party who are scared of being defeated.  Senator Webster  is extremely scared about it. 
-That is right, I am too scared to run. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator Turnbull,  you will address the Chair. 
Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  These people who are scared of being defeated have realised that the only way they can make an allegation against the Government is to raise the old communist can, and so we hear it again. Let us get down to this question of what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has done. 
-At any time. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! There are too many interjections. I want to hear what  Senator Turnbull  has to say. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I am glad that there is one person who is prepared to listen to me. If the Prime Minister were here he could say that he has been misrepresented by the statements made by  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator McManus  because he has never said that we are going to be communists. Just because we support a country it does not mean that we are going to support that country's philosophies. We are quite friendly with Russia and with a lot of communist countries. If the members of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence only stopped to think they would realise that there is only one country in this area of the world to which we will be looking for support, and that is China. Do not get carried away with the fact that the Chinese are communists. They will be one of the 3 great powers of the world- they are not quite there yet- along with Russia and America. If the Americans believe that the Chinese should be recognised, surely the Opposition would not deny us the right to recognise the Chinese because, after all, whatever the Americans do in regard to foreign affairs- not to Watergate- is what we should be doing. If they believe that they should recognise China I do not see why the Opposition is making all this fuss about our recognising China. 
Let me give the reason why I say that we need China as a friend. This is what  Mr Whitlam  is trying to do, and I think it is an excellent idea. All the South East Asian countries, including Australia because we live in the area, should get together and form a conclave or achieve some form of friendly co-operation. I do not believe for one moment that we should worry about  Mr Hill-  whoever he is; I have never heard of himor any of these other communists in Australia. Australia will never become a communist country. We are a country that 'have'; it is only the countries that 'have not' which will become communist. There is no reason why we should not achieve some form of co-operation in this area. 
I again warn honourable senators, as I have warned them once before, that a country came down here. It was not communistic at all, but it was aggressive and it wanted the things that we had. That country was Japan. Japan is growing again. Do not make any mistake about this. There is all the talk that under the Japanese Constitution they cannot have an army and a navy. But when one goes to Japan one hears the Japanese talking. A few years ago the only thing that they would talk to me about was getting rid of the Americans so that they could have their own defence force. 
Yes, they have. But the Chinese are not able to industrialise as quickly as the Japanese. If the Opposition wishes to fight another election in which it uses the 'little red arrows' technique, those arrows should come down not from China but from Japan, as that country will come down here again. This is what we must face up to. But honourable senators will not face up to this fact because Japan at the moment means money to Australia. So, we curry favour with Japan. 
I think that the Chinese have a lot of money too. I think that our country people will agree that the best things that have ever happened were the trips by the Prime Minister and his party to China. I refer to his first trip as Leader of the Opposition and his recent trip as Prime Minister. 
The defence forces in Japan at present are peace keeping and are supposed to be for internal security. It takes a short while only to expand such forces. But, for heaven's sake, look at the position in Australia. I wish the Labor Party would take a quick look at this aspect. Australia is practically defenceless. I give the Labor Party no credit for what it has done with regard to defence. We will need an ally very soon. I do not know how soon that will be. It could be 20 years. The war in the Middle East will not be a war between the Israelis and the Arabs; it will be a war for oil. That is what will happen. It will be a world war because some countries have no oil and they will need to acquire it. 
The time will come when in this area Japan will want all our goodies which we are so willing to give away at present. The Japanese will ask: Why go to Australia and buy these goods when we can come down and take them?' A country like Japan can industrialise itself and can expand its Army, Navy and Air Force in a short periodin one-tenth of the time that it would take us to arm ourselves to protect ourselves. I am all for a treaty of friendship with China because I believe that as it is not for humanity for nations to be friendly with people in their area, we need the help of the Chinese. 
The other point that was raised concerned Sihanouk. It was suggested that he was fighting through and encouraging the activities of guerrillas. For heaven's sake, let us not draw a comparison between him and the Croats and Yugoslavs. After all, Sihanouk was kicked out of his country and he is fighting to get back. I do not think that it matters whether we agree with his philosophy. He was removed from his country and he is trying to return to power. It appears that eventually, very shortly, he will be successful. Even the Chinese are not enamoured of him. We seem to forget that just as there are hatreds between Western country groups, so also are there internal hatreds amongst the Communist groups. We talk about the Vietnamese and Red China and how the Chinese have helped North Vietnam. But the North Vietnamese hate the Chinese. This sort of attitude can be found all the time. It does not really matter whether or not the Chinese talk to the North Vietnamese because the North Vietnamese will not have a bar of Chinese occupancy of their country. 
Lee Kuan Yew is a great man. Before he changed his philosophy, he was a communist. Some people may say that he saw the light. All good credit is due to him because of what he has achieved. But his is scared of China. He dares not recognise China because 75 per cent or 80 per cent of the population of Singapore is Chinese. Let me assure the Senate that if China was recognised by Singapore it would not be long before Singapore was Chinese again. Chinese people remain Chinese. They are not Singaporeans. 
The continual denigration of the Prime Minister because he has achieved something should stop. This seems to me an example of the petty jealousy that goes on all the time. When we find that the Prime Minister and his Party have at last managed to do something for our primary products, we hear nothing but sneers and suggestions that there is something wrong about this action. There is nothing wrong with what the Prime Minister has done. We trade with Communist countries as fast as we can. If there is a chance of expanding our trade, so much the better. 
Opposition senators who have been to China know about the position taken by that country. I am surprised at the attitude adopted by  Senator Greenwood  who is trying to interject. He has been to China. If he says that the Chinese are a militant people, he is talking sheer and utter nonsense. The Chinese are not. They must adopt this pose on their northern border because they have other problems there. Here there are two large Communist blocs fighting each other and they must have a certain amount of military preparedness. When we consider that the Chinese have not the sophisticated military hardware that the Russians have, we must acknowledge that they need to make up for this deficiency with numbers, and the Chinese have plenty of people. 
Let us have a full debate on foreign affairs so that we can all be prepared to raise these matters at some future time. I remember that, when Opposition Senator's were in power, on two occasions I wished to speak on foreign affairs. Did we ever get a chance to do that? We were never allowed to do so. I think that we had one debate on foreign affairs under the last government. This is a little game that is played. We sit here on the cross benches and see each side rubbishing the other and denigrating the other. Keep at it. That is politics. 
I think it has come to the notice of members of Parliament that there has been increased strain amongst us and a few are falling by the wayside due to ill health. I should just like to give a free word of advice. What is happening, of course, is that the Senate and the House of Representatives have never worked so hard in that not only are we sitting here but also committees are continuing, whereas in my first years of Parliament there were no committees and one had free time when Parliament was not sitting. This means increased stress and strain on members and this is what is causing the casualties amongst members. May I suggest that honourable senators can survive this stress and strain if they are physically fit. I shall take this advice seriously myself because I shall start dieting tomorrow. Lunch should be abolished. All members should go for brisk, graduated exercise. If they cannot play squash or tennis in small doses, they should go for brisk walks at lunch time and then perhaps we will not have so many casualties. 
I do not believe we can churn out the Bills we have been churning out in the time that we have because this does put a stress on people and it is stress that counts. We may have to sit longer. I do not think that in my 1 1 years here the House has sat for more than 30 to 40 weeks in any one year. We should take a look at this to see whether we should sit a greater number of days but for fewer hours in each day. 
Yes, that is true but, the fact that we do speak causes some people a lot of increased stress. Stress is the thing that counts and my suggestion to members is that they get a little more exercise. We could have group 5BX exercises,  Mr President,  if you would be kind enough to lead us; or, as a gentleman of honour, you may be prepared to give way to the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation: Will the Australian Government allow Qantas Airways Ltd to accept the increase of 6 per cent in air fares suggested by the International Air Transport Association while still defrauding the Australian travelling public to the extent of 25 per cent? Why does the Government allow Qantas to remain a member of IATA? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. It concerns his reply to a previous question with regard to the abolition of the means test within the life of one parliament or 2 parliaments. I would like the Minister to clear this matter up, because I will have a very personal interest in it after next year. Is it proposed that the means test will be abolished in the life of one parliament or in the life of 2 parliaments? 
-I wish to speak on the same subject as  Senator Wright.  I think it is a bit late now to do much about the purchase but I think the Government should take some notice of what has been said by the Director of the National Gallery. It is very difficult for anyone to talk about whether this painting is worth having. It is a matter of one's point of view, and my personal view is that the painting is not worth having. I am not an artist but if the Director thinks the painting is worth having I must defer to his judgment. Having said that in regard to art, let me come down to the matter of finance which I am interested in. Is any painting worth $ 1 .3m? 
I only asked the question. There may be paintings worth that amount but this one certainly was never worth it. This painting was once offered for sale at one stage for one-third of a million dollars and suddenly without any rhyme or reason the price jumped to $1.3m. Let us accept that it is a famous painting and one which any national gallery would want to have. But surely some control must be placed on expenditure. I say to the Minister: 'Is it not time that you had a finance committee- you may have a selection committee to pick out these paintings- to inquire into costs before such a painting is bought?' I know that  Mr Mollison  said he referred the matter to the Prime Minister but I doubt that the Prime Minister has any more knowledge of art than I have. When the Prime Minister was informed by the Director that the painting was worth having he probably agreed. Should not a committee be formed to which purchases of this type can be referred? 
I should like to be driving around in a Rolls Royce, but I have to look at my budget and all I can get is a Valiant motor car. The same applies to paintings. There are a lot of paintings I should like to own, including a Dobell, but I cannot afford to have them. The Government has unlimited money at its disposal to splash around, but I think it is completely wrong to spend a sum like this. I think the Government should do something in future about the purchase of paintings, works of art, sculptures or anything like that. The Victorian Art Gallery recently bought a sculpture that I think has been ridiculed by nearly everyone. I have a few friends in the United States and every one of them has written to me, not criticising the art, but about the absurdity of the price. We have become the laughing stock of Soho. When I refer to Soho in the United States I am referring to where Hutchinson has his gallery. All the big galleries are now drifting to Soho from Maddison Avenue. I repeat that we have become the laughing stock in Soho because we paid this sum of money. There is not one person in the United States who does not agree with that fact. 
When the Opposition was in government it thought everything it did was right. The same applies to this Government; it thinks whatever it does must be right. It is much better to admit one's faults. I think the public appreciates it more. Whilst this may be a wonderful painting let us have an assurance from the Minister that there will be some financial check on  Mr Mollison  's designs for the purchase of goodies for his Gallery. 
I would like to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. As this chamber is quite aware, on many occasions I have spoken on the bureaucratic control of the drug Intal. At last a glimmer of light has filtered through. As from 1 January that drug will be taken from the national health prescribed list of drugs requiring a special authority. Why can it not be taken from the list now? I do not want to go into the reasons why that cannot be done now. Also, will the Minister ask the Minister for Health, if he has to get the information from the Minister, why we have to suffer any special purpose authorities? 
I direct a question without notice to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It is in regard to the pilots dispute with Trans-Australia Airlines. I was wondering whether, not now but in the near future, the Minister could make a statement on the facts of the case because there are a lot of rumours going around and it is only fair to the public and the pilot concerned that these should be dispelled. One of the rumours is that the pilot concerned has been reprimanded before. If this is so we should know about it, and if it is not so rumours of this kind should cease. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. It relates to the air fares charged by Qantas Airways Ltd. There has not been a satisfactory explanation of why the effect of the 25 per cent revaluation of the Australian dollar should not be passed on to the public. Does the Minister agree that Qantas is defrauding the public? There is no other word for it, even though the Minister said that that word is too strong. What is it that Qantas is doing if it is not defrauding the public? Why should the Australian public subsidise all the other foreign airlines that come into Australia by again giving them the value of that 25 per cent? We are paying Pan-American World Airways, American Airlines lnc, and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, etc., this 25 per cent. If the Government feels that a subsidy is required, will the Minister ask for a subsidy for Qantas in order to allow the Australian travelling public- there are thousands of Australians travelling- to gain the benefits of revaluation which the Government promised would be passed on to the consumers? Finally I ask the Minister that he insist that Qantas stop using the power that it has of requiring of all air travel agencies that the fares of Australians must be paid in Australian currency whereas any other national can get a fare $173 cheaper than an Australian? 
I will speak to the motion moved by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  although I really wanted to speak only in relation to the grants bills. The whole attitude of the Opposition is really one of nauseating hypocrisy. The whole position just makes me wonder what is going on in the Parliament. Senators on my right will not realise that they are in Opposition. They are insisting on their proposal because they know they have the brutality of numbers. So they do every fiddling, piddling huie thing they can. You are all to blame. You are all together and you have got yourselves into a God damn mess and I hope that you rot in it. You are in a complete mess and you do not know what to do now. Independent senators have to sit here and listen to his hypocrisy all the time. Did not members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party say when the Government was elected to office that they would not be obstreperous and that they would see that the legislation - 

-That is very good. That is the interjection I was waiting for. Here is the DLP acting with nauseating hypocrisy. If these words apply to anyone, they apply to you because you have just stated the position. You are insisting that the Government carries out its promises. But time and time again during this session what you have done is to prevent the Government from carrying out its promises. Now you come forward because it suits your religion to do so. That is what I call nauseating hypocrisy. 
-Not your religion; I was referring to the DLP. 
I am talking about the DLP. 
-That is no slip. The honourable senator is supporting the Opposition in this motion. The point that I wanted to make, and which was so beautifully exemplified by the remarks of  Senator Little,  is that we have seen nauseating hypocrisy on the part of the DLP. We have a Bill before us to establish a Schools Commission. It does not matter who is on the Commission. The Opposition wants the people it nominates to be appointed and the Government wants those people who it nominates to be appointed. But Opposition members will not realise that they are not the Government now. So they put up this fight. They have to fight for every little thing that is in this Bill to show that they have the numbers. They ought to be ashamed of themselves. 
-No, I did not; the DLP was with me, so the honourable senator can blame his friends as well. He should not forget that the DLP voted with us and we carried the day. 
-That is right, but when the Bill came up the second time, who reneged? It was the DLP. If that was not hypocrisy, give me another example. 
-How could I not be here if I was moving a motion? 
-At least when I am here I am awake. 
Yes, it is; the honourable senator sleeps. I do not know how he is awake for this debate: perhaps I was speaking too loudly. Normally he is sound asleep every day when I see him in his seat in this chamber. If he says that I am not here, I do not know how I can see him. 
-Okay, it is the honourable senator's bedtime. 
If the honourable senator wishes to pretend that he is a baby, let him do so. Let me complete my remarks, because I do not want to get up and speak on every matter, as some honourable senators do. Some honourable senators speak at every possible opportunity. The Opposition's attitude to this amendment typifies its attitude to the Bill. Its attitude to this amendment does not indicate its attitude to the Bill as much as does its attitude to the amendment in regard to grants for schools, but it is the same sort of approach. The Opposition has the numbers, so it insists on hitting the Government over the head. It does not matter whether one, two or three members of this Commission are appointed by the Government- if the Government wants to appoint these members let it do so, as long as we get the Commission going. I have not seen one telegram yet that has supported the Opposition's point of view, and this is embarrassing, considering all the telegrams that have been pouring in. It was lucky that I opened one telegram because it was a refusal by a friend of mine to go to lunch with me. Had I not seen that, I may not have been here to speak. 
Anyhow, I have said what I wanted to say. I did not intend to come into the chamber and cast a vote with regard to any of these amendments, because all I was interested in was to see the Commission operating. It really does not matter which way the vote goes on some of these amendments, as they are just pin-pricking matters. Nevertheless, I felt that I should make my position clear. I have done that now, and what I have said applies to all the other amendments on this Bill that will come before the Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many Press Officers and/or Public Relations Officers are at present employed by (a) each Minister and (b) each Department. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation: How real is the necessity- I am not talking about Qantas Airways Ltd this time- for security checks on people travelling within Australia? Apparently they are being started at every airport in Australia. They are a hindrance and a nuisance. They seem to be most unnecessary, unless there is some real purpose behind them. 
-I would like to raise a matter on the adjournment debate because it is the only way I can get some publicity for it, or at least I hope I can. I refer to a medical graduate who is trying to do some research work in the United Kingdom. When I was in London recently I was surprised to find that one of the most eminent professors of pediatrics in the United Kingdom and in fact in the world was virtually trying to raise money from notable people in London in order that an Australian medical graduate should be able to undertake research at Kings Hospital in London. I said to him that I was horrified to find that he should be doing this. I said that surely some Australians or some institute or society in Australia should be providing the finance. I said that it was not up to the British to raise funds for an Australian to undertake research. 
The facts of this case are that this person is a young doctor who wants to go to the United Kingdom to study for 12 to 18 months in a very highly technical field of pediatrics. He wishes to undertake research into liver and neonatal hepatic diseases and gastroenterology. Apparently no funds are available to enable him to do this work. Once upon a time one only had to appeal to the Adolph Bassers or the Edward Hallstroms for assistance. I wonder where men of their equivalent are to be found today. 
I do not know how many institutes will provide financial assistance. When  Sir Edward  Hallstrom was alive one could telephone him and he would provide the money that was needed. Surely there are Australians who are prepared to further interest in this sort of research work. The amount required in this instance is only about $10,000. It is required to enable the young doctor concerned to visit the United Kingdom for 12 months or 18 months. Perhaps the Minister could raise it with the National Health and Medical Research Council with a view to assistance being given. Apparently the Royal Children's Hospital Research Foundation cannot obtain funds to send this doctor to carry out the research. 
I have raised this matter in the hope that it will attract some publicity which will be seen by a notable Australian who will be prepared to carry on the work of the 2 gentlemen to whom I have referred. Anybody who wishes to help this program should contact me and I will tell him with whom to get in touch so that the research may be carried out in England. 
I was peacefully enjoying a cigar in my room when I heard  Senator Wright's  speech on the broadcasting system. The hypocrisy stank as it passed my cigar.  Senator Wright  is obviously in the wrong profession. He would have won an Oscar for the demonstration he has just put on in front of the House. I congratulate him on it. It was magnificent acting and he knows it. Look at the smile on the tiger. He can see himself going up before the glamorous people and getting a little Oscar for doing this little thing. For heaven's sake, let us have some common sense. All that is being asked is that these matters be put to the people, not to the Senate or the House of Representatives. If the Liberal Party wishes to defeat these referenda the sooner they are put to the people the better. Liberal Party members say that the people are confused. If they are confused they will vote against the referenda. 
Let me say quite clearly that I am a supporter of all 5 of these proposals. But that is not the issue at present.  Senator Wright  claims to be considering the local government bodies which he is so enamoured with and is so worried about. Has he been to the local government bodies to ask them what they want and whether they require Federal assistance? If he had, he may have found that the local government bodies do not require assistance. Why then does he wish to deprive them of it if they do not want it. 
Oh yes, one minute the honourable senator says the Government will not listen to any opposition, but he will not even listen to me because I am opposing him. The honourable senator should keep himself calm and collected and he will get still another Oscar. 
Let us for heaven's sake put these matters to the people as soon as possible.  Senator Wright  can still get up and make grand, eloquent speeches that bore most of the populace, but that is his right. We could then have a decision on these referenda.  Senator Wright  should stop this hypocrisy about considering these matters. The Liberal Party considered the matters long ago and decided to oppose them. I watched the Leader of the Opposition last night on television. I have never heard more drivel coming from him in regard to the first item. He said that there was no need to pass the matter by referendum or to alter the Constitution because  Mr Whitlam  has every right to go to the people now to have a double dissolution, and then he could synchronise the elections for the two Houses. That is all very well for this next election, but it would not necessarily synchronise any other elections. As the Liberal Party well knows, when it suited it it disregarded the tie between the elections for the 2 Houses and changed the times. Whenever something suits the Liberal Party, it changes the arrangement. Let us stop this hypocrisy and let us get on with the job and put these referenda to the people. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister for the Media, is in 4 parts. Firstly, is it correct that Australian Broadcasting Commission staff announcers are personally graded, including downgraded, on the advice of State Announcer Review Assessment Committees? Secondly, are the reports correct that at least six long serving announcers have recently been told that they have no future as broadcasters? Can it be agreed that many of the Announcer Review Assessment Committees' comments are confusing, contradictory and even ambiguous? Thirdly, will the Minister investigate the introduction of a more realistic appraisal to assess announcers, as the present system does much to lower the standard and morale of ABC announcing staff? Finally- I do not expect an answer to this part now- would it be correct to say that most of the ARAC personnel had little or no experience as announcers, and what is the percentage of experience in each State? 
