
 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I speak to this House today fully conscious of the responsibility that I now bear. I proudly represent some 50,000 electors and their families in the electorate of Burke, considerably more than half of whom decided that I should come to this place. To those who took this decision, I say: 'Thank you': to those who did not, I say that they shall not be without representation. 
Burke is a newly created seat in Victoria. It is part of the old Division of Lalor which was so ably represented for many years by my old friend and colleague,  Mr Reg  Pollard, a well respected former member of this House. In later years,  Mr Merv.  Lee was the chosen representative of Lalor. Burke is an outer metropolitan seat which is partly rural. Therefore, it can be considered as representative of the problems that exist today in both our cities and our country areas. 
I should like to make it quite clear at this point that I believe that the differences between country and city are artificial. 1 believe that no real differences exist and that both the city dweller and the country dweller are Australians who are concerned about the future of Australia. It grieves me to see these alleged differences exploited for political purposes. Residing in the electorate of Burke are people from almost every country in Europe as well as many countries in Asia. These newcomers to our shores are living peacefully with one another and in peace with their Australian neighbours. Old enmities and prejudices are forgotten in a desire to lead a natural life free of strain and tension. 
I believe that all Australians, old and new, city and country, black and white and all shades in between are concerned with only one thing - the quality of the life that they lead. So, I listened with great care to the Speech delivered by  His Excellency  to members of both Houses of this Parliament and I have since read his Speech with great interest. I must confess,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that more of my time was required to read this Speech than was required to read his previous Speech. 1 am still disappointed that I can find little or no reference in either Speech to the quality of life. My observations on his Speech are that it deals mainly with the quantity of life. There is no expressed or implied intention to arrest the unhealthy pattern of recent years of great exodus to the cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. No blueprint is presented for the balanced development of Australia as a nation, but only proposals to bolster certain sections of the community apparently on the assumption that this will automatically correct the inequalities and the injustices that exist in other less influential sections of the community. It is disturbing to say the least that two-thirds of Australia's population live in the two eastern States of Victoria and New South Wales and that two-thirds of the population in each of those States live in the capital cities of Melbourne and Sydney. 
In my home city of Melbourne, the tremendous growth explosion has meant an enormous demand for all resources. Demand has outstripped supply in all areas. This has brought most unhealthy economic effects to bear on the quality of the lives of the luckless inhabitants. Land prices have spiralled to astronomical heights beyond the reach of a large section of young marrieds. The only agency through which land and house can be purchased at a reasonable price is the Housing Commission of Victoria. It has an ever-increasing waiting list of prospective buyers. Private developers are concentrating on building flats so that they may get greater use of and therefore greater return on capital per block of land. There is no shortage of tenants. 
The Housing Commission of Victoria, in a desperate endeavour to house the multitudes seeking housing, has resorted to building giant concrete blocks of flats that have been described as containerised human misery. This development adds nothing to the quality of life of hundreds of young Australian families.  His Excellency  outlined no plan for the provision of finance for the acquisition of land by the States at a fair price and its subsequent subdivision and sale to young couples at reasonable prices. Tt is the duty of this Parliament to ensure that the ownership of a home is within the financial reach of all Australians. Many people are living in the suburbs of our capital cities without the benefit of the basic requirement of city life - sewerage - a service provided by the State. The States claim that they do not have the money to provide this basic service. A prominent Victorian citizen was heard to mutter that 'they have money running out of their ears in Canberra'. 
The Melbourne sprawl is causing great concern to town planners and authorities responsible for the provision of services. With more people coming to live in the city and its environs, the population of Melbourne is expected to reach 5 million by 1985. A greater demand will exist for services in the metropolis whilst many large country centres with the same services available are suffering the threat of annihilation. The migration of people from country areas to the cities is a matter of grave concern to the leading citizens of both areas. The responsible city dweller is concerned at the ever increasing size of the cities, the sprawl both outwards and upwards, the hopeless inadequacies of the public transport system, the overloading of existing public services and the increasing lagging behind of the extension of services compared to the rate of growth. When travelling to and fro in his motor car, he is frustrated by the congestion on roads that are not keeping pace with the unprecedented population explosion, and worse is to come in the next 15 years. The chances are that his children attend schools that are either ancient and in need of renewal or they attend classes in portable class rooms that are not designed for some of the purposes to which they are put. The science class at the Lalor Technical School has nowhere to store its glassware and the stock of glassware is limited as a consequence. The effect on science students is calamitous. 
There has been no new public hospital built in Melbourne for many years and hospital space is at a premium. The answer given is that there is not sufficient money available to erect new hospitals. But any visitor to Melbourne will observe large buildings being erected to be used for office space and these buildings are only partly occupied. The inference to be drawn is that there are too many buildings being constructed. The techniques required to build an office building is no different from the technique required to build a hospital or a school, and the money problem is common to both. So the choice should be made between hospitals and schools, which are needed, and new prestige office buildings which, because an excess of office space is available, are not needed. So it is not a question of money; it is a question of priority. My priority is schools and hospitals. 
I have made it my business to talk to the mayors of cities and the presidents of shires and their respective clerks. The responsible, leading citizens in the country are concerned at the dwindling populations of their towns and shires. Cities that perform an important function in the scheme of things are dying because of the exodus of people to the cities. Most country centres are fully equipped with all the services enjoyed in the cities, such as electricity, gas, reticulated water and sewerage, drainage, fully constructed roads, telephones, schools and in most instances hospitals. These services, already provided and readily available, are not being used to capacity and year after year a greater proportion of the service becomes idle. This is in strong contrast to the overloaded services and indeed in some instances non-existent services in some parts of the cities. In a prominent town in the Western District recently I saw an advertisement in a real estate agent's window advertising Housing Commission homes to let at $10.40 a week and urging people to apply for tenancy. In Melbourne a Housing Commission home is available for rent only to those who have five children or more and are prepared to wait for 4 or 5 years. If the quality of life of the citizens of Australia is to be improved, the dangerous situation of cities becoming overcrowded and polluted and important rural centres dying must be reversed.  His Excellency  neglected to mention any plan, long range or short range, designed to arrest this imbalance. 
A vigorous, developing country like Australia cannot afford to have its development retarded by the addiction of governments to dogma. It must be recognised that the treatment of ills will require great flexibility. Too often I have heard the inflexible creed of free enterprise espoused and practised and 'socialism' treated as a dirty word. 
The rigid application of free enterprise will only widen the gulf that exists between sections of the community. A casual look at society today confirms that the strong - that is to say, the well organised sections of the community - are becoming stronger at the expense of the weaker or unorganised sections of the community. The concept of democratic socialism on the other hand would apply the appropriate medication for the illness being treated. The blind acceptance of the creed of free enterprise to the absolute exclusion of socialism is dogmatic and can only lead to disaster. My aims, in common with my colleagues, will be for the democratic socialisation of industry, distribution and exchange to the extent necessary to eliminate exploitation and other antisocial features of those fields. This in no way implies the application of socialism to the absolute exclusion of free enterprise. To my mind this is not a dogmatic attitude; rather it is the reverse. 
The Parliament has an undeniable obligation to legislate for the betterment of all citizens. The aura of silence that permeates this institution, the evasive statements made to the House by Ministers and the talk-a-lot say-nothing answers given to questions are not conducive to public participation in the fundamental of democracy, and that is informed public debate. Legislation for only the privileged few will lead to growing dissent from the not so privileged. The taking of unwilling people along inhospitable paths to satisfy the blood lust of other nations will lead to dissent from the people. The continued absence of sophisticated weapons and the reliance on conscripted soldiers for military adventures to the detriment of Australia's defence will lead to dissent. This Parliament must make itself democratically responsible for the wellbeing and safety of all its citizens. Tt is time to be logical, not emotional, and freedom must be returned as the right of alt. Opinions that are not popular have the right to be expressed without the holder of those opinions being labelled a Communist. The reasons for dissent must be examined and a contemporary look taken at solutions. The Government can no longer complacently rely on the great silent masses, as it learned to its horror last October. Silence does not always give consent; sometimes it reflects disgust. 
I was pleased to hear honourable members on the Government side of the House declare their support for equality of opportunity for the education of all Australian children. I trust I shall see the same honourable members practice the sentiments that they have expressed. I should be pleased to welcome their voting with us when next the question of educational opportunities is debated. 

 His Excellency in his Speech said that a training scheme for married and single women who, for domestic reasons, have not previously been employed will be introduced. I laud this action and commend it to the House, especially if my impressions are correct. The first inference I draw is that there is a shortage of workers in some areas and that women workers are to be injected into the labour field. I believe that these female workers are being trained to fulfil a need in the work force - as I have said, to supplement a shortage of workers. If this is the case then these women workers will perform an important function. If their function is important then the functions performed by their sisters already engaged in industry and commerce are no less important. 
I trust that it is implicit in the proposal that all women engaged in industry and commerce are indispensable and are needed. They are thus entitled to an equal share of the values that they create, the same as their male counterparts, and I am pleased to see that  His  Excellency's Government at last has recognised the danger of exploitation of the female work force purely on the ground of sex and the danger of the replacement of the male work force in many areas with a female work force receiving a lower rate of pay. I expect that  His  Excellency's Government, on recognising these dangers, intends to introduce legislation to give equal pay to its female employees and thereby give a lead to industry and commerce to recognise the important role of female workers.  Sir, His  Excellency's Government shall have my full support when it introduces this legislation for equal pay for the sexes. I express my thanks to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and to honourable members who have listened to me in silence. I realise that when next it is my privilege to address this honourable assembly the silence may not be so intense. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Did the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia advise him when the bank rate was to be increased by  i%  to  8i%  before he made the announcement recently? In view of the fact that the Treasurer is empowered under the Commonwealth Bank Act to approve or not approve any alteration to interest rates, why was the bank rate increase made public by the Governor of the Reserve Bank and not by the Treasurer himself? Was this procedure adopted in order to throw the responsibility for such an unpopular decision on the bank rather than have the Treasurer accept the responsibility and the public odium attached to it by making the announcement himself? 
I address to the Prime Minister a question relating to the recently announced increase in interest rates by banks and the preferential treatment proposed to primary producers. Will the concession for primary producers apply only to those who derive their entire income from primary production, or will it apply to everyone engaged in primary production to some degree or another? Is the preferential treatment intended to give relief to a section of the community in necessitous circumstances? If so, what preferential treatment can home buyers in necessitous circumstances expect to receive? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and it relates to the removal of a woman from the gallery of the House on Wednesday of this week. Was the person who removed the woman a private citizen? If not, was he a Commonwealth employee? If so, for which Commonwealth department docs he work? 
1 wish to oppose the  Committee's  recommendation for the extension of the freight aprons, taxiways, runway extensions and engineering services at Melbourne Airport situated at Tullamarine. The reason for my opposition is that the people who reside around this airport have expressed to the Committee their opposition particularly to the extension of the north-south runway to the south. The proposal is to extend the north-south runway by 3,500 feet- 2,500 feet to the south and 1,000 feet to the north. The estimated cost of the extension is S5.2m. 
It should be clearly understood by those people who do not know the area that there is a small settlement to the south of the existing north-south runway. I refer to the township of Keilor, which has been in existence for in excess of 100 years. The proposal to extend the runway closer to Keilor will, of necessity, create a noise hazard which will affect the people who live in the township. It must be borne in mind that these people are not newcomers to the area; some of them have lived there all of their lives. The Keilor City Council did put forward to the Public Works Committee for its consideration a proposal which was the exact opposite to the Committee's recommendation. The Keilor City Council's proposal was that the airport be extended entirely to the north. There is no habitation of any magnitude to the north of the airport in line with the runway. The Public Works Committee considered this proposal and determined that the cost of extending the runway 3,500 feet to the north would be $9.7m and the cost of a compromise or alternative proposal to extend it 1,500 feet to the south and 2,000 feet to the north would be $7.3m. 
I do not think that this is really a question of how much money is involved, although that must be a consideration. The prime consideration should be the effect of such development on the people who live near the airport at present and the people who will live near it in the future. On this aspect, I have already pointed out that the township of Keilor has been in existence for a long time. It has inhabitants who lived there prior to 1958, which is when an airport at Tullamarine was first mooted. There is no residential development as yet to the north. Therefore consideration must be given to the people of Keilor. The Commonwealth Government, as the owner of the airport, is in no different position from any other citizen in the community in that it has an obligation, as has every citizen, to be a good neighbour and not to cause a nuisance. It has been argued by the Keilor City Council, and I agree with it, that to do as the Public Works Committee has recommended and extend the runway to the south will create a nuisance for the people who reside in the area. 
Tt must also be borne in mind that there is a large area of vacant land around the airport at present. The Committee took cognisance of this fact. In this regard I refer to page 19 of the report of the Public Works Committee on extensions to Melbourne Airport, and in particular to paragraph 69, which states: 
We believe it should have the added effect- 
That is, extension of the runway to the south -  of preventing further encroachment by urban development onto land outside the airport which originally was zoned to act as a sound butler between the airport and urban areas. 
On that very point I would like to say that there is land abutting the southern boundary of the airport which was in fact rural land in 1966. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works opposed and refused an application to rezone the land as residential land. The owner of the land appealed against the refusal to the Minister for Local Government, as is possible in Victoria, who agreed that the land should be rezoned as residential land. The land has not been subdivided so far, but if it were to be developed for residential purposes that would mean that the extension of the runway would create a greater hazard. The Public Works Committee has recognised the fact that a problem does exist insofar as the urban development of the land skirting the airport is concerned. Therefore I would have thought that the Committee would have made a recommendation to the Commonwealth Government, and I am disappointed that it has not, that the Commonwealth Government take the initiative, together with the State Government, and ensure that the vacant land which surrounds the Melbourne Airport at Tullamarine remains vacant or is put only to a use which is compatible with the airport. I am of the opinion, and a large number of people in my electorate are of the same opinion, that residential development next door to an airport is not a compatible use. It is most important to have liaison between the 3 levels of government - Commonwealth. State and local - which are responsible for the usage of land around airports. Tullamarine should not fall into the category later on of, for example, Sydney where development has been permitted around the airports. The same thing has happened at Essendon Airport in that development has been permitted up to the perimeter of the airport. This is a problem which could be avoided at Tullamarine if action is taken at this point of time by responsible people to ensure that the vacant land is used for a purpose which is compatible with an international airport. 
The Public Works Committee also made a rather brief reference in its report to the question of the curfew imposed on flying hours. This is another subject which is of great interest to my electorate. It is probable that when all the facts are known about jet aircraft - very little information is available at the moment - this is a subject which will also be of interest to people who reside in areas other than immediately adjacent to airports. The Public Works Committee gave some consideration to the question of 24-hour flying. With the greatest of respect to the Committee I would like to say, that although 1 know it did investigate this question very carefully, I am unable to agree with its reason for saying that Melbourne Airport ought to be used on a 24-hour basis. Paragraph 71 of the Committee's report states that, having regard to the magnitude of the Commonwealth's investment, currently rising to $85m, and the care taken by the Commonwealth during planning to ensure the maximum possible compatibility of airport operations with the interests of the community, the Committee supports the proposal to use Melbourne airport on a 24-hour basis. The physical health of the people who are affected cannot be measured in terms of millions of dollars. No survey has been carried out to determine the sociological effect of aircraft noise on people, especially its effect on people in the early hours of the morning. To say that Melbourne Airport has to be used on the basis of 24 hours a day because of the large capital investment in it is to imply that we should base all of our operations only on the amount of money which has been expended and not be conscious of the comfort of individuals in the community. 
When he opened the airport on 1st July of this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said that 24-hour usage of the airport was contingent upon proper zoning in the environs of the airport; which brings me back to the very first point I made that, insofar as the Melbourne Airport is concerned it is at this point of time not in an ideal position at Tullamarine but it is in a relatively good position if the vacant land around it is put to good use. However, if the situation is not corrected now the vacant land will be sold and sub-divided. There is the risk that unscrupulous dealers in land will encourage people to live there. Further residential development will create additional problems for the Commonwealth because there will be a constant cry from the people living in the area for relief or compensation. 
The situation that might develop can be foreseen. There is still time to rezone the land around the airport so that it may be put to proper use. I am disappointed that the Committee should have seen fit to recommend bringing the north-south runway 2,500 feet closer to the people who live in the area. I have no doubt that to extend the runway in this manner will create a nuisance affecting residents. As owner of the airport the Commonwealth has an obligation to ensure that it creates as little nuisance or noise as possible for its immediate neighbours. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Does he intend to apply a political test to prospective immigrants and visitors to Australia so that entry will be permitted to only those who agree with the Government's Vietnam policy? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving - violence to the individual including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House ' of Representatives will , seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims pf crimes of violence, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray- 
Petition received and read. 
The only aspect of his speech upon which I can congratulate the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  is his footwork, because he very neatly sidestepped everything which was raised by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He did not in any way endeavour to justify the charges that he intends to pass on to the public who use the services of the Post Office. He asked the following question: Does the Australian Labor Party want to introduce the concept that has been adopted for the British Post Office? But of course that is not the question that is under discussion. If we are talking about the amendment then we are talking about the setting up of a committee to inquire into removing the Australian  Post  Office  from  the administrative influence of the Public 
Service Board - that seems to be the crucial part of it - and establishing a public corporation to control the business of the Post Office. In drawing assumptions from that all the Postmaster-General is doing is prejudging or presupposing the findings of such a committee. I do not think it is the prerogative of the Postmaster-General or of any honourable member in this House to prejudge the findings of the committee. 
The Minister also made reference to interest charges of the Post Office. I will deal with that later. I would now like to say briefly that I do not think that it matters very much whether interest is charged or not charged. I do not know whether the Australian Labor Party has an extremely firm policy on this but the point is that it is paid. It is a charge on the people who use the Post Office and the services it provides. If it is not charged in this way the Government will raise the funds by revenue in order to balance its Budget and it will come out of the pockets of all Australians. My own opinion is that every Australian receives a benefit from the Post Office, including those people who do not directly use it; so one way of raising the money is probably as equitable as another. 
In regard to the demand for telephone services the Minister said that if there were a greater demand for telephones the installation of services would be greatly delayed. The area in which I live is only 9 miles from the City of Melbourne and it has been established for about 12 years. It is not an entirely new area; yet there is a delay, as I found out the other day, of over 2 months for private telephone services and for business services in Glenroy, which has been established for many years, the delay is still a month. The Labor Party would be the last body in this House, I would think, to suggest that employees of the Post Office or any other employees are inefficient, lazy and indolent. We have always contended that employees are industrious. 
That is quite right and I think that this will be made very clear if the honourable member cares to listen to what will be said. And I am surprised to hear an honourable member from the other side of this House agreeing that Government enterprise is more efficient than private enterprise. 
With the greatest respect to the honourable member it was the Postmaster-General who said this. The Post Office has certain peculiarities that are probably made very manifest. It operates in a virtually monopolistic area. It is perhaps the most vociferous consumer of capital. It is highly mechanised in some areas and in other areas it is very labour intensive. It provides a service to the community through its many and varied communication systems which are rather unique. The community has come to rely on the services of the Post Office to such an extent that modern miracles wrought by the Post Office are taken for granted. I am not convinced even by the words of the Postmaster-General, which were very few, nor by the Bill now before the House that there is any justification for the increased costs of postal services. The attitude of honourable members opposite towards the way in which Government undertakings should be operated is well known. They insist that all Government undertakings should be - in fact, must be - conducted on a business basis. My observations of honourable members opposite leave no doubt in my mind that their interpretation of 'business basis' is that an undertaking must show excessive income over expenditure. In other words, it must make a profit. Anybody in his right mind would insist that full attention be paid to efficient operation. In fact, great emphasis must be placed on efficiency and effective administration but the making of a profit by itself is not necessarily a measure of efficiency. 
As I said earlier I am not one of those who would reject Government enterprise as being not comparable with private enterprise. Indeed, I believe that on a fair basis of comparison Government enterprise will come out in front and that there are quite a few practical examples of this. The only qualification I would make at this stage is that there is a difference between governments. Some governments manage their affairs better than others. Whether a government is competent or not does not detract from the way in which employees comport themselves and carry out their duties. Employees of the Australian Post Office, in common with all employees, are loyal, diligent and industrious. Because of this it is doubtful whether any extra efficiency can be effected without detracting from the service provided. I believe that the Postmaster-General said much the same thing but in slightly different words. In his second reading speech the Minister referred on 2 occasions to wage increases. I hope that I am not being too sensitive on this question but the second reference in the comparison used could easily be taken to mean that the wage increase is the major contributing factor to the need to increase postal charges. I do not think that I have especially misread that reference. I have already referred to the loyalty, the diligence and industry of the staff of the Australian Post Office and there is no reasonable argument to support the proposition that these employees should subsidise the postal services of this country by being satisfied with a wage level that suffers considerably by a comparison with the salaries and wages earned by their brothers and sisters in other industries. These employees are entitled, as every section of the community is, to maintain their earning capacities. They should be able to do this without criticism being levelled at them and blame being placed on them for the need to increase postal charges. 
The Post Office is a community service and probably more of a community service than any other. It serves all and not only those who directly use its obvious services. Yet the cockeyed reasoning of honourable members opposite, clouded by Liberal Party philosophy or perhaps its lack of philosophy, depending on how one looks at it, is clearly that those who use the service will pay for it and if the service can be subsidised by a cowed work force hindered by an archaic wage fixing tribunal and a work force that is discouraged from seeking wage and salary increases then so much the better. Postal charges, probably more than any other item in the Budget, cannot be considered in isolation. Because the Post Office is a community service it deserves special consideration and the criterion that should be applied is that postal charges should be kept to as reasonable a level as it is possible to keep them so that they remain within the financial reach of as many potential users as possible. This is not to be taken as meaning that taxpayers should be subsidising commercial enterprise so that they may enjoy the decided advantage of cheap postal rates. 
I refer now to the people who use the mail service as a cheap method of distributing their advertising material. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned this matter earlier. It is obvious from the remarks that have been made that other people receive as much advertising material as I do through the mail but this material is very useful for me as it provides an economic fuel with which to stoke my incinerator. Treating this as a separate matter, I would like to repeat that postal charges should be considered in conjunction with the Budget as a whole. I can still hear the cries from our Conservative opponents of: 'Where would you get the money?' I think that honourable members on this side of the House answered that question very ably during the course of the debate on the Budget. It was said then that it is not a question of 'Where would the money come from?' but that it was a clear question of priorities. The Postmaster-General has gone some of the way in sorting out mail into A class and B class. Perhaps I may not be in agreement with his classifications but at least this is a step in the right direction. Like so many other items in this pedestrian unimaginative Budget, postal charges are being used to bolster the national income in a devious way. Any increase in postal charges will be passed on to the end consumer, so the Government will once again make its contribution to the spiralling price wage situation. 
My colleagues have made pertinent and full reference to the charge levelled against the revenue of the Post Office and called interest on capital'. I suppose that in the long run it does not matter very much how the books of account are kept, and whether interest is charged on capital when the capital in fact comes from annual revenue is of little consequence in my mind, except that it strikes me as a little dishonest to raise revenue in this way. The main argument in favour of this method seems to be that Government enterprise should not enjoy any advantage over private enterprise. I disagree with that argument. I do not believe that the so-called private enterprise society can work andI do not believe the function of Government is to make sure that it works by loading its own enterprises with an unnecessary burden so that it can be said that Government and private enterprise are competing on equal terms. There are legitimate concessions that can be made available to Government enterprises. They should not be denied to them merely because the Government is prepared to support the inefficiencies and duplications of the free enterprise society. I regard the interest rate levelled against the Post Office in this category. It is an iniquitous charge. 
There are substantial reasons, apart from those I have mentioned, to support the intent of the amendment, that is, to remove the Post Office from the retrogressive policies and attitudes of governments of the type we are now enduring. I commend the amendment to the House. Comparisons have been made and undoubtedly will be made in the future - I think the Postmaster-General made some between the Australian Post Office and the British Post Office. I would suggest it is dangerous to start making comparisons on this basis. Comparisons should only be made between things that are like. There is no real similarity between the British Post Office and the Australian Post Office except that they are both post offices. In the same way I believe there is little comparison between a Shetland pony and a Clydesdale draughthorse except that they are both horses. Therefore it is very dangerous to make comparisons on this basis in order to place figures before us of comparative situations and say: 'This is the situation in the British Post Office. Does the Labor Party want the same sort of situation in Australia?' Nothing could be more ridiculous than a comment such as that. The Labor Party in this and in all matters is interested only in seeingthat the most efficient and equitable way of operating a service to the community is found. It is to this end that the amendment was moved. Once again I will read the amendment for the benefit of honourable members and I will emphasise that it seeks appointment of a joint select committee. The amendment reads: 
That the Bill be withdrawn and that a Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and  of  establishing a public corporation to manage th business of the Post Office. 
I commend the amendment to the House. 
Firstly I would like to compliment the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and return 2 compliments that he has previously paid me. I am beginning to wonder what is happening in this chamber tonight when I am the second Labor  speaker  to be in agreement with an honourable member in the Liberal Party. It does not auger very well for the future of this country when that happens. My reason for saying that is that it would seem that everybody at this point of time, including myself, is agreed on the proposition that there should be an investigation into our immigration policy. However, unlike the honourable member for Deakin I do not go so far as to agree that there is a need to set up a committee of inquiry and then explain why we ought to keep on increasing our intake of migrants. The very crux of an inquiry by such a committee is whether we should in fact continue our present rate of intake of migrants. 
It is nol the only purpose but it is probably the prime purpose. I hope that later I will be able to elaborate on that very point. The honourable member for Deakin also spoke about the history of Australia as being the history of immigration and if I may I will recapitulate a little of the history of Australia. Immigration, since the inception of Australia, has gone through a number of phases in our relatively short history of 200 years. Some of these phases have been carefully planned and some of them completely unplanned, thrust upon us by circumstances. The record shows that Captain Cook landed on the east coast of Australia in 1770 - 200 years ago - and took possession of the continent in the name of the King of England by ordering 2 musket shots to be fired to drive off the interested spectators - that is. the Aboriginals - and then by raising the Union Jack. As well as a great navigator, Captain Cook must go down in history as the greatest real estate agent of all time. Surely no area of real estate on earth has ever been purchased for such a low price. Can anyone imagine 3 million square miles of land being obtained for the cost of enough powder to fire 2 bullets from 2 muskets? Captain Cook duly reported back to those who had sent him that the great south land - Terra Australis - was, as they had suspected, suitable for habitation by Europeans. And Australia's first immigration scheme was off the ground. 
The Government of Britain was having a torrid time, with all those dreadful, smelly people who were stealing food be cause they and their families were hungry and all those long haired lay-abouts who were not only muttering about their problems but were actually prepared to do something about them. These miscreants were standing up in public, holding meetings in private and in public, even going to the extreme lengths of holding demonstrations to demand recognition of their problems, a solution of their problems and access to justice. The be-wigged noblemen shook their heads solemnly in alarm and said: The law is the law and it must be obeyed'. They had no cameras then so they simply tried in the courts those insurgents who sought justice and had them transported across the seas to the new colony. They were Australia's first immigrants. I give thanks that I live in a more enlightened and tolerant era where governments regard dissent as a healthy symptom of democracy and governments would not dream of gaoling dissenters or trying to stifle open discussion. 
Eighteen years after Captain Cook, Captain Phillip arrived with a fleet of ships bearing our first migrants. One could say without fear of contradiction that this, our first immigration programme, was the result of a planned policy. Some of the immigrants came from the finest families. The others were carefully selected for their qualities and the selections were confirmed by some of the finest judges in England, litis planned immigration policy continued for a number of years with the immigrants being housed in cosy little migrant hostels at Port Arthur in the south, at Botany Bay on the east coast and Moreton Bay in the north. Gradually this method of government selection of migrants fell into disuse and good old private enterprise took over with the expected bumbling and stumbling that is usually associated with the selfinterest of private enterprise. 
Australia then entered a phase of unplanned immigration programmes. Gold was discovered in the 1840s and gold fever brought people to Australia from most parts of the world - Europe, Asia and the United States of America. The population of Australia increased dramatically although all those who came did not stay, but, to use a contemporary quotation, there was a net gain of arrivals over departures. Certain agriculturalists in the north were carefullly looking at the system of farming used in the southern part of the North American continent where the agriculturists had found a way to cut down labour costs. They bought their units of labour, paid them no wages, but did realise that it was necessary to feed and house them. Some farmers in Australia's north thought this was a good idea so they did the same thing. They brought black people to Australia from the islands nearby and used the same methods as their American counterparts. The passing of time has seen a great change in the attitude of farmers towards employees. No longer do we hear farmers complaining about high wages; nor do they try to get labour on the cheap. Fortunately government action was taken to destroy the iniquitous slave system, but unfortunately the policy that was evolved tended to discriminate against people who were nol white and became known as the White Australia Policy, a term that is still quoted in many countries and is as distasteful to me as it was when I first heard it. 
Between the two world wars there was an intake of people from Europe and the British Isles. But this was not planned and the economic situation at that time was no better in Australia than it was in Europe. As a result there was little incentive for people to move. We had to wait for the Chifley Labor Government in the late 1940s after the war to set about finding solutions to the many problems that confronted Australia on the road to post-war rehabilitation. The evidence of sound governmental planning by  Mr Chifley  and his government has been manifest for the last 20 years or more. In so many ways the succeeding governments, including this one, have followed the guidelines that were soundly laid down 20 years ago. Not the least of these is in the field of immigration.  Mr Chifley's  inherent ability to find the right man for the right job led him to choose the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  as he now is, to institute an immigration policy. This he did with such wisdom that this policy has remained virtually unchanged for over 20 years. This is surely a tribute to the man who conceived it. 
As against that tribute, it must also be borne in mind that there have been significant changes in the requirements and the needs of the community in the intervening period. Yet, in spite of the changed circumstances, succeeding governments, and the various and numerous succeeding Ministers for Immigration, including the present Government and the present Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch),  are still following the guidelines laid down by my colleague the right honourable member for Melbourne. Australia's immigration policy has become a matter of public debate and the general concensus would be that the policy needs review. This needs to be said and it should be said over and over again until notice is taken of it. 1 repeat that Australia's immigration policy is in need ot review. I have heard various descriptions of the position, but the one that I like best and thought: most appropriate was the heading for an article in the 'Australian' in May of this year which described our policy as 'Immigration: A horse that has run wild'. I did not think much of the article as the author's solution to the problem was to shoot the horse. The article puts forward a point of view that immigration is a cost to the community because it draws on resources that could be applied to other things and that there is not sufficient return to the community to warrant a continued outlay. On the face of it. this would appear to be true but a deeper look at the question raises doubt about the validity of the arguments used. 
In my electorate I have a very large percentage of families who came to Australia as immigrants. Many of these people are naturalised and many more are awaiting naturalisation. So apart from my concern for the welfare and well being of all these people, the problems of the migrant community are now of special significance to me. 1 give credit to the present Minister for his attitude and I do so without any embarrassment at all. This attitude is expressed in the. Melbourne 'Age' in July of this year which slated: 
The Government will make its first full scale review of Australia's immigration programme. 
Full marks to the Minister for his ability to convince his Government to take a sensible course when his predecessors apparently could not, or perhaps their governments were unwilling. The article went on to state: 
As a starting point, he had earlier  this  year approved a cost-benefit analysis of immigration: This project, would provide detailed information on the economics of immigration. 
The preliminary study would lake at least a year and considerably longer for the total project. 

 Mr Lynch said he bad initiated talks with the Australian National University on desirable population levels and distribution. 
Another major innovation would be an in-depth study of up to 10,000 migrants. 
The experience of these 10,000 would be studied at various stages during their first 3 years in Australia. 

 Mr Lynch also said that he had decided to broaden the basis of Australia's consultative machinery on immigration. 
He said he had decided to widen the functions and membership of the Immigration Planning Council to include urbanisation and environmental considerations. 
The tenor of that statement leads me to believe that the purpose of the cost-benefit analysis would be to determine a firm policy on the quality or quantity of the intake as related to the general economy. But it seems from other statements that this aspect will be ignored completely. In the Melbourne 'Herald' in June, the Minister is reported as saying in London that he planned to attract 350,000 British settlers over the next 5 years. Again, the journal called 'Canberra Comment* in July reported the Minister as saying: 
There has been no suggestion, however, either by the Minister, his Department or the Commonwealth Government, that there should bc a cut back in the migrant intake. 
If it is an assumption that the findings of the investigation committee by the Australian National University will be ignored, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  left no doubt when he addressed the annual dinner of the New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures on - 5th August. On that occasion he said: 
We must continue- to have a high intake in the seventies no matter what bank brings out a statement querying the value of it. 
It would seem that through no fault of the Minister the 2 pertinent questions that need to be answered will never be asked. I believe that immigration today is at a crossroads and the choice of which road to take is one the Government must face up to fairly quickly. One signpost says: Should Australia seek to limit its total migrant intake while upgrading the overall skill content of that intake?' The other says: 'Should we continue to seek as many people as possible, accepting the fact that this will inevitably mean accepting more unskilled and therefore relatively unproductive workers?' 
The time for this debate is severely limited and full debate and elaboration of the many facets of this important subject are not possible in the time available. In fact, immigration is of such vital importance that Australia's policy warrants full debate in this House. But to return to the 2 questions that 1 have just posed - and they seem to be the crux of the issue - there is argument to support both points of view. The cost-benefit basis is not altogether a purely ecnomic question. Many features can be measured in substantive terms. Bodies can be counted. Statistics reveal that approximately 2.5 million people have come to Australia and stayed during the past 20 years. We know that we have received people from 40 countries. We also know the number of people born in other countries who lived in Australia as at June 1966. For example, 908,664 were born in the United Kingdom, 267,325 were born in Italy and so on. We know and can measure how much money is spent and charged against the Immigration Department and we know by book-keeping which areas cost what. A simple arithmetical sum would give us a cost per person which has been fairly reliably assessed at $650 a head. There are many other aspects to this question. 
I see my time has almost run out and it is noi possible to canvass all of the points in the time that is available. However, it is generally agreed that the ledger has shown a credit balance in favour of increased immigration in the past. The question that we now face is: Will that credit balance continue? The Australian National University inquiry should provide the answers. It is unfortunate and condemnatory thai the Government, which has been in office for 20 years, has realised at the eleventh hour that there is a need for reason rather than emotion to frame our immigration policy. There are many things that I could say about education - the teaching of English in the migrant hostel in my electorate. But there is not lime to do this. I trust that the Government will take note and act on the findings of the Australian National University inquiry. 
I rise to support the amendment. I make it quite clear that, as the amendment states, I do not stand in opposition to the proposition that is before the House. One could not reasonably oppose this Bill when it deals with such an important subject as mental health. I am grateful to be able to join in the debate, but I am disappointed that the debate has not been more wide ranging and that only members of the Opposition have spoken on the matter, although I appreciate that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  will close the debate. As the  2  previous speakers have said, we are dealing with an area of hygiene and health that affects the whole community. 
In my opinion it is an anachronism that society today in the last third of the 20th century should still look upon mental health as people did in the days of the notorious Bedlam. 
 The Bill provides that the Commonwealth will pay to the States $1 for every $2 spent by the States on mental health institutions. Ostensibly, it does not limit the amount of the subsidy. An answer given to a question in the Victorian Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, 23rd September, reveals that approximately $7m has been provided by the Commonwealth Government to Victoria to supplement the $22m that has been spent by that State on mental health institutions. Whilst the Bill might not set any specific limit on the amount that the Commonwealth will provide, the subsidy system itself is iniquitous. It limits the amount of assistance that the States will get. I think that almost every citizen of Australia has heard the statements of the rebellious Liberal Treasurer of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte. I might point out that  Sir Henry  Bolte is a member of the Liberal Party; he is not a liberal Treasurer. He complains about the parlous state of finances in Victoria. Consequently if he cannot raise the finance to do the work that is required, of course he receives Commonwealth subsidy only for the money he has raised. 
In June of last year, in company with  Senator Poyser,  I visited the mental hospital at Sunbury, which is in my electorate. This hospital has a history of almost 100 years. It was built in the first place as a detention place for wayward boys and was designed accordingly. It was built from blue stone blocks from the local quarry. The timber was hewn locally and the slate was quarried locally. All these materials were put together in a building that contained cells with heavy wooden doors and iron bars on the windows. This is where the boys were to be kept away from the society which they would have destroyed or which would have destroyed them. 
For a number of years the building performed that function, but it eventually fell into disuse for that purpose. In the 1920s or 1930s it was taken over as a tuberculosis sanatorium. It was modernised and new buildings were constructed. They were very good and comfortable buildings and, even by today's standards, are probably satisfactory. With the success of the campaign for the prevention and cure of tuberculosis, the establishment was no longer required as a tuberculosis sanatorium. It was taken over gradually for the purpose of treating people who were mentally ill and mentally deficient. The building that was erected 100 years ago to house wayward boys was used, and is still used, to house people who are mentally ill or mentally deficient. 
The day that  Senator Poyser  and I visited this hospital we stepped back approximately 100 years in time. The situation that my colleague, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  described just recently as having existed at Kew 18 years ago existed at Sunbury in 1969. The old buildings do not have cavity walls and it is very difficult to fit them out with electrical wiring. The fire places that used to exist have been sealed up because the people who occupy the building are not able to cope with such dangerous things as fire places. The heating of the building is very limited. The men who occupy it sleep without clothing because they lack control of the organs of their body during the night. In the morning they are taken out and placed on  a  verandah that has  a  concrete floor and one or two strip heaters. It also has a sort of partition which offers some protection from the weather. Because of the shortage of staff they have to stand there for up to an hour until a male nurse can take them in, shower them and help them dress for the day. 
The timber used in the construction of the roof of the buildings is now in excess of 100 years old. The blue stone, of course, presents no fire hazard, but the floors are timber. When we were there the fire precaution and prevention measures that were available were very limited. In some instances they consisted of only buckets of water. The provision of hydrants and things of that nature was not very evident. The Secretary of the No. 2 Branch of the Hospitals Employees Union in Victoria was very concerned primarily, I suppose, for the safety of bis own members and also because of the deplorable conditions under which they had to work. But being  a  former qualified nurse in a psychiatric hospital, he was concerned more for the safety of the unfortunate people who inhabited the building. When I spoke to him early in 1969 he showed me photographs that were, tendered as evidence in a coroner's inquiry into a shocking fire at Kew in which a number of elderly people were burnt to death because of the lack of safety measures in the very old buildings. 
One of the most incredible things was that the doors on the building were locked from the outside. The same thing that existed in the building where the tragedy occurred at Kew existed at Sunbury in 1969. The inmates were placed in the dormitory at night time and the doors were locked from the outside. This in itself was a fire hazard. It is perhaps only through the grace of God that there has not been another tragedy of the type that occurred at Kew. The sewerage system at the Sunbury hospital was inadequate. We were shown the primitive and antique toilet facilities that were available. The building was designed with the old type pan. People whose social habits were different from those of other people were endeavouring to use facilities that were not designed to cope with their incapabilities. Nothing had been done to provide special equipment for them. The flushing system generally did not work so the toilets generally were flushed with a garden hose. Some of the toilets had reached such a state that they had been nailed up altogether. When we made inquiries we were told that the reason for this was that the sewerage system just could not cope with any more connections to it. We asked why the system was not renewed and we were told the old story that there was a shortage of funds. 
The new sections at the hospital arc being used. The old nurses home is now used as accommodation for children. A sheltered workshop was built in recent times and both these sections are performing a very fine function. But there are still areas that have not shown any improvement and I have been informed by very reliable sources that the situation there has not changed very much since I was there. There was a great furore in Victoria at the time that we visited Sunbury and the allegations that were made were given some credibility because representatives of the mass media were forbidden to go into certain sections of the hospital. I think the concern shown by the secretary of the union is to be commended. Normally, as the secretary of a trade union he ought to be concerned only with the wages and working conditions of his members, but he and the members of his union have shown, great compassion for people who are quite incapable of coping with the problems of the world around them, people who are incapable of putting a case to this Parliament except through people who are elected to sit here. They do not have the capacity to do any of these things for themselves, and by and large they become a very neglected section of the populous. 
As I mentioned earlier, even in this enlightened age some sort of stigma still attaches to somebody who is mentally retarded, mentally deficient, intellectually handicapped or mentally ill. In some cases even the families of those who have been afflicted, but certainly society in general, would like to push this problem under the carpet and pretend it is not there. As the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  pointed out, there is a very high incidence of mental illness in the community. I have been told that at this time at least one family in 6 would have a member who would require psychiatric treatment of one sort or another during his lifetime. I know we are starting to enter a very broad field when we speak of psychiatric treatment. But there is a problem facing places, like Sunbury, Beechworth and Kew. There is no doubt that with the changing methods of treatment these places will probably not be required to the same extent in the future as they are required now. Here we must draw a clear distinction between people of this type, that is, those who are mentally ill and geriatrics, who spend their last days in these places because there are few other places to put them. It does seem that there will in the future not be as great a need as at present for the conventional type of mental hospital. There will be a greater need for other facilities that are being developed. 
Every psychiatrist to whom I have spoken on this subject believes that the only way a mentally ill person can be treated is not to isolate him from the community but rather to try to integrate him back into it. This can be done only on the regional basis that is mentioned in the amendment. However, the hospitals will probably never become redundant, because whilst we might have a population explosion at this time, when half the population is probably under the age of 25 years, in 60 years time we will probably have half of our population as geriatrics. So there will be a continuing need for the buildings themselves, to whichever use they may be put. I support the amendment because it says that more Commonwealth finance ought to be made available. I know that this is a common cry which has been heard many times since the recent Budget was introduced into the House. However, it is almost hypocritical to stand up and treat all of these things on the basis of how magnanimous the Government is in giving $2 for $1. That surely is not the problem. The lie has already been given, I believe, in this place and outside this place and by recent actions, to the claim that there is no money available. 
In one of the first speeches I made in this House I said that this is not a question of the availability of money but a question of priorities. Surely to goodness, after all of the things that have been said on the whole question in this very short debate, this must attain a greater priority than that which it has reached. We must also remember that if the States were relieved of this part of the burden they would have more money to spend on education or something else in the community. So it is a circular argument and holds no water whatsoever. There ought to be a greater application of the resources of the Commonwealth to this area. I would not know just how much capital works would be required for the regional and day hospitals and all the other types of treatment places that are required. It seems to me that it would not be very much, and if that is the case the Commonwealth will spend even less on mental health in the future than it is spending now. Therefore it ought to expand into another area besides providing assistance for capital works. Kew, Beechworth and Sunbury are only 3 of the places I could mention in Victoria where there is an urgent need for large sums of money to be applied to abate the fears of tragedy held by the staff. Apart from anything else there is an absolute crying human need to correct facilities that are below standard and provide facilities where they do not exist. This must be done now, so there is an urgent need at this time for a greater allocation of Commonwealth resources to correct, to some measure, the existing buildings. 
There is a great need for the Commonwealth to have second thoughts about whether it will apply its resources only to capital areas or will accept its share of the responsibility - as the conscience of the community in the area of mental health - in areas other than capital works. Inquiries have been held into this subject and it would be very easy, I suppose, to move another amendment that there be another inquiry held and the whole question reinvestigated, but it is not one whit of good holding inquiries, investigating the question, considering evidence and coming down with a considered decision if that decision is to be brought into this place or some other place, debated up hill and down dale and then have no notice taken of it, and it being allowed to lie in a pigeon-hole for 15 years or more. 1 do not believe that this country can continue in this way. It cannot continue this laissezfaire, ad hoc approach to this, that and the other with the Commonwealth boasting of its magnanimity, saying 'In 6 years we have provided $22m to the States for mental health', without ever saying a word about what has been achieved with that money - especially when we know that the appalling conditions that existed years ago still exist and will continue to exist until there is an injection of Commonwealth funds into the States to correct the conditions. 
The Commonwealth must look to the future and engage itself in a much wider sphere than just the limited one of providing money for capital works. I commend the amendment to the House. It takes nothing away from the Bill at all, but it makes a very important distinction, ft mentions adequate financial assistance and the Bil), of course, does not do this. The Bill does not extend the provisions of the Act. It does not improve them and it does not worsen them. All that the proposal before the House is designed to do is lengthen the time of operation of the grant. I am disappointed in the Government for not taking this excellent opportunity when the Bill is being reviewed to extend its provisions - the Government, of course, is to be commended for what it is doing - and to consider the whole question of mental health. I believe that the amendment should be carried. If it is carried the Commonwealth will be in a much better position that it is now. 
After having heard so much talk in this chamber during the Budget debate and also during discussion of these estimates, it seems that social services have great appeal to most people, and I am moved to paraphrase an expression attributed to Mark Twain, that social services is something that all Government members speak about but none do anything about. We have heard many speeches similar to that just delivered by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  who said that there should be greater benefits for returned servicemen and greater benefits paid by the Repatriation Department. He used the word sympathy'. Sympathy is on the same page of the dictionary as 'symphony' and synthetic'. It is more than sympathy that these people want. Members of the Opposition are not in a position directly to influence the Government on this matter, except by raising questions. Members on the Government side must surely have the ear of the Government and must be able to influence somebody to do the things that apparently they want done. Without exception they have all sought the same thing. 
When one commences to speak on the social services issue - and it is on that which 1 want to speak rather than repatriation - naturally one thinks of pensions. I suppose that with the miserable amount that is paid as pensions and because of the inequitable way in which they are determined - it has been said that pensions are a political football with a 50c increase in off-election years and a $1 increase in election years - it is only reasonable to associate pensions with social services, but to my mind social services cover a far wider field than the payment of pension. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  mentioned the difficult position that pensioners find themselves in with respect to the payment of rates to municipalities and charges to public utilities. Pensioners in my area asked me to approach the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  to see whether he would consider making a payment to their municipality equal to the amount of rates that they were expected to pay. The Treasurer did a fine job in his reply. He wrote a long letter of  li  pages explaining why the Commonwealth could not do anything about this request and suggesting that an approach should be made to the State government and the local government. If this were done we would be right back again to the matter of inequitable fund raising. 
Municipalities obtain their funds from rates and rates fall as heavily upon the unemployed as the employed and as heavily upon the lowly paid as the highly paid and there is no way in which a municipality can distinguish between people in raising its revenue. The municipal council of the city of Broadmeadows, on which I have served as a counsellor for the last 10 years and which would not be considered, by any yardstick, to cover an affluent area, finds itself in the very difficult position of trying to levy rates on people in the area so that it can provide them with social services. That in itself is a ridiculous state of affairs. It would make sense if the municipal council of the city of Broadmeadows were able to raise its finance in an affluent area and then spend it in an area where it is needed. However, only the Commonwealth Government is in a position to do this; only the Commonwealth Government can raise revenue on the basis of people's incomes. Therefore, this question of social services rightly lies at the feet of the Commonwealth Government. 
On page 9 of the Melbourne 'Sun NewsPictorial' of Monday, 12th October 1970 there is a half-page article dealing with the work that is being carried out by David U'Ren, who is the superintendent minister of the Methodist Circuit in Broadmeadows. The Methodist Church, like the municipality, is concerned about the need for the provision of social services and social welfare in the area. However, it is in the same position as the municipality which is unable to raise the necessary finance to undertake this work. Frankly, this question of social services falls into the lap of the municipality because the Federal and State governments have abdicated the field. 
The Methodist Church in Broadmeadows has committed itself to a debt of approximately $50,000. Part of that money has been raised, but only last weekend  Mr U'Ren  told me that $10,000 was still to be found. The work to be performed by the centre which is to be established by the Methodist Church is true social service work. The centre is to be used to provide for the social welfare of the people in the area and, according to the surveys that have been made, there is a very great need for such a service. But it is being left to voluntary organisations to do this work. The Brotherhood of St Laurence has provided a full-time social worker for the area. The Methodist Church is playing its part by providing a part-time social worker. Churches of other denominations in the area are providing part-time social workers, and the Victorian State Government has provided a full-time welfare officer. 
Honourable members might say that if an office of the Department of Social Services were established there, the area would be well served. But in my mind, although it would be a forward step to establish such an office, it probably would not fulfil the enormous need for the provision of social services for the people. There is in the area a large number of people who have recently arrived from Europe. Also in the area is a very large number of deserted wives. Generally the area is inhabited by unskilled workers who cannot demand a very high income for their labour. Because of this these people are subjected to all sorts of community pressures which they cannot withstand. Family counselling is required to show the people how they can overcome the pressures and the problems. But no attention is being given to this matter by the Federal Government. It has completely neglected this matter. When the matter is raised it is stated, as the Treasurer did, that it is the responsibility of the local people. 
I return to what I said earlier. There is an annual rates debt of $40,000 for the city of Broadmeadows. In other words, people cannot pay the rates which are now being charged. As everybody knows, the amount of rales charged is geared to the earning capacity of the lower income people in the community. If this is not done, the rates remain unpaid. It is so easy to say that the local people should be looking after this matter of social services, but this is a difficult thing to do when the municipality has an annual rates debt of $40,000. It has long been my thesis that local people should act only in an advisory capacity. The advice should be transmitted from the local people to the people who can solve the problems by providing finance - the Federal Government. There is no provision for the matter I have raised in this year's estimates. Something should be done for these people. 
The municipality of Broadmeadows is in a hopeless position. But to add to the problems of the municipality, we have instant families. The Housing Commission built 500 houses in the area and 1 ,500 children moved into them. This creates pressures which cannot be borne by the local people. The municipality cannot take money from the poor people in order to give a service to the poor people, and that is about what it amounts to. Only the Commonwealth can provide the finance, but it is not doing so. I criticise the Government for not providing the finance. I trust that the responsible Ministers will give this matter further attention. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens  of  Victoria respectfully showeth. 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings For all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
Whereas - 
The Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system; 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; 
more than 300,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity; 
Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one-sixth of its school children; 
only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inequalities; 
nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
A joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities. 
The immediate financing of special pro grammes for low income earners, migrants, Aborigines, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children. 
The provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  advised us that he supports the Bill because I listened to him patiently for 20 minutes and frankly I found him talking about things other than matters that are contained in the Bill. But this is not unusual. The honourable member's views on immigration and matters of this nature are very well known. He has made them very clear and he did nothing today to dispel that clarity. He said that the Australian Government's immigration policy is well known. That is true, but 1 am wondering if it is known well. He also spoke of ethnic groups in the community. I am wondering if he has not used this expression to connote ghettos. It seems to me that when the question of immigration is mentioned not only the honourable member for Boothby but also a number of other honourable members on the other side of the House seem to be very condescending in their attitude towards the whole question. 
People from overseas seem to become something different. Those honourable members seem to forget that Australian history is one of immigration and that the honourable member for Boothby is a descendant of immigrants, as 1 am and as is every other member who sits in this House. The only difference might be that some of our forebears came out here under their own steam. 
This whole question of the education of the children of migrants is a very important one and it is very interesting to note the number of honourable members who have offered to speak on the subject because it takes their attention. In my own electorate of Burke is situated the Broadmeadows Migrant Hostel which creates a peculiar problem for the East Meadows State School. This school is not very far from the migrant hostel and as a result all the children of school age who reside in the hostel attend this school. It has become a fact of life that migrants stay at hostels for approximately  3  months. This is the case in Broadmeadows. After this  3-month  period they move out of the hostel and go to live with compatriots. What sort of situation that createsI would not like to hazard a guess. It solves one problem for the Commonwealth Government in that it does not have to provide so much hostel accommodation because the turnover is so high but this in turn creates a problem for the local State school. The high turnover of migrants in the hostels means that the students are at the school for approximately  3  months. The number of migrant children at the school is always about  100  but they are not the same children. They change every  3  months. I am now speaking in favour of the amendment. 
Some accommodation at the school is used to teach the children of migrants living in the hostel. As a result of this the children of the residents of the area - shall we call them the permanent students of the school - do not have the advantage of a library or an arts and crafts room because the 2 rooms that would be used for those purposes are used to accommodate migrant children. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  is well aware of the matter about which I speak because I wrote to him about it in the middle of last year. I appreciate the fact that he cannot answer my letter because this matter has not yet been resolved by the Parliament. I am fully cognisant of that but we should be looking at the problems that arise with the accommodation that is available. My colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  in moving his amendment is endeavouring to draw the attention of the Government to a very real problem. 
It has already been pointed out that there will be some sort of a problem in providing the number of trained teachers required.  1  suppose the teaching aids - the tape recorders and all the rest of it - can be purchased readily but accommodation for the students is a very real problem. There are many problems which arise in these schools and one is the lack of accommodation due to the fact that the rooms are occupied by migrant children. For the  3  months they are there, the children of migrants sit blankly and stare into space because they cannot comprehend what is taking place around them. The teachers who are available endeavour to give those children as much attention as they can but of course this is to the detriment of the students who are already at the school. Frankly this problem goes a lot deeper than the teaching of English to the children of migrants. Having spoken to the principals and teachers of schools in my electorate my experience is that the percentage of native born children in Australia who are receiving a very good education in the English language is not very high. We have to delve a lot deeper into this matter. 
Today we arc dealing with the question of teaching the English language to migrants. The problem of understanding the English language and the ability to communicate with one another is probably much deeper than is appreciated by a large section of the community. We heard speeches today about ethnic groupings in the community. As a contradiction we have also had honourable members speaking in this place about integration. It is true that in Melbourne there is a newspaper called 'Times of Malta' which is printed entirely in the Maltese language. There are 2 newspapers entitled 'La Fiamma' and 'Il Globo' which are printed entirely in the Italian language. There is also the 'Kosmos' newspaper which is printed in the Greek language. There are probably others but they are the only ones I know of. One newspaper which is circulated in my own electorate - a free newspaper supported by the local merchants in the town through their advertising - prints on 1 page in the Italian language the news reported elsewhere in the newspaper in the English language. 1 suppose it is the old story of too little too late. This is a criticism which the Government must be used to hearing. 1 wonder how deep this problem is within the community when we have a need for newspapers to be printed in other than the English language so that people can find out what is going on around the place. 1 will not be so parochial as to pretend that if I were to go to Italy. Malta, Greece, Spain or anywhere else I would not gravitate towards someone who spoke English, or that I would reject the chance of reading an English newspaper. But at the same time if we are to talk about, to use the words of our esteemed Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  a multiracial society- 
Perhaps my English is not as good as it ought to be. The problem of these migrant people living in ghettos and reading newspapers in their native language has to be solved. I thought that the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  made quite a sound contribution to the debate on this Bill last night when he said that the hows, whys and the wherefores have to bc obtained. In other words, what sort of incentive will be offered these people to learn the English language? At present there is precious little incentive. I would not know 1 migrant .'who is disadvantaged through nol knowing the English language. He can make purchases in a shop which has a shopkeeper of his own nationality. He can read newspapers printed in his own language. He is not seriously disadvantaged by not knowing the English language. He works in a factory where the foreman is probably of the same nationality. We should nol fall for the trap of believing that all foremen or shopkeepers are necessarily Anglo-Saxon or that they all have a very fine command of the English language and no knowledge of any other language. The incentive has to be found to encour age migrant women, migrant men and their children to learn the English language. 
Although this Bill goes part of the way towards achieving this objective it just does not go far enough. This is a criticism which the Opposition constantly levels at this Government and I think the Government has come to expect it. The Bill does not get to the root cause of the problem. This is a situation which has grown up not over the last 3 or 5 years but over the last 20 years. No attempt whatsoever has been made to recognise the problem, nor has any step been taken to prevent it from becoming the serious problem that it is now recognised to be. As I have already said the Government expects the criticism of doing too little too late. It is a legitimate criticism and the Government knows that. The honourable member for Denison, whom I complimented for the contribution he made to this debate, raised only the issue of incentive. However, I do not expect him or any other member of this House to have the answer to this question. The very weak attitude which he took towards the amendment - this was his only opposition to it- was that the Commonwealth Government should not make provision for buildings because the buildings, would be used only part of the day. The honourable member also said that schools are used in the same way but that is not a very strong argument to put forward against the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I listened very carefully to what the honourable member said and as far as I could understand that was his reason for opposing the amendment. But I wonder how valid his criticism is. Those of us who live in the capital cities know that there is no shortage of development of real estate in the inner city areas. In my view the priorities of our latter day society - our contemporary society - are very cockeyed. There seems to be no shortage of men, money or materials for the erector of large multi-storey office blocks in prime locations in prime business sectors, but these things never seem to be available for the construction of a hospital or another classroom for a school. The argument that these things can be made available in one quarter but not in another does not hold water. If they are available to build office blocks they are available to build schools and hospitals. 
Because the argument cannot hold water any more the old cliches start to rise and we start saying: 'You can cut only so many slices from a cake.' However, if all the ingredients are used the cake would become larger and many more slices could be cut from it. To my mind the whole argument revolves around a double barrelled question. Firstly: Are all of the resources of the nation being used in the best interests of the community? Secondly: Are all the available resources equitably tapped? We on this side of the House see a Government that I regard as being the marionette of the cold hard hand of capitalism and it always says no. If there were a government in this country which was capable, able and willing to plan it would provide an affirmative answer to those questions. If this country, notwithstanding all the turmoil in which it now finds itself, can survive long enough the Australian Labor Parly will provide such a government next year. Then no doubt the country will once again find itself on the road to prosperity. 
The honourable member for Denison recited a story to illustrate a migrant's lack of the English language. That story reminded me of the time when I was a trade union official and I asked a small chap who camefrom central Europe to join my union. He was not very happy about the whole thing and we had quite a lengthy discussion. Finally he got down almost on his knees, looked up into my face and said:'You know what you don't know?' That confused me but I thought the answer must he no and I said 'No'. He said 'Well, you don't know nothin' about nothin': that's what you don't know.' That man had trouble in communication. I am afraid 1 did not know what he meant. 
Yes, it was good strine. There was a man who obviously could have been assisted in his communication had he had the advantage of being able to study the English language. I commend the amendment to the House. It takes nothing whatever away from the motion. In fact it adds to it. Obviously the objection of the Government will be that it is going to cost money. 
Seeing that the Government is hooked on this jog of an anti-inflationary squeeze at the moment and the Prime Minister is determined to prove to everybody that he is going to solve the situation, I believe that the amendment will not find sympathy amongst the Government supporters. The honourable member for Boothby said that the House seemed to be in agreement on the matter. If the House is in agreement on the matter it should be sincere and make every endeavour to do all the things necessary to make the legislation work. To make it work we have to have accommodation, and that, in effect, is what the amendment says. I commend the amendment to the House. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for the Army. Does the Minister know of any reason why tradesmen at the Army Design Establishment in Melbourne have not yet received the recent 6 per cent increase announced by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission late last year? Is he aware that all other employees at the establishment have received the increase? Will he take steps to expedite the payment? Will he ensure that future decisions are implemented closer to the date of  announcement than has been the practice for many years? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Is he aware of the stop work meeting held last Friday by members of the lithographic squadron of the Army Survey Corps in Bendigo over the. continuing procrastination by the Government in bringing their pay into line with civilian rates? Will he take immediate action to remove the dissatisfactions and frustrations which, if allowed to continue are likely to cripple this highly skilled technical unit? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares (hat the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare- chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use' in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its  interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
The Red Kangaroo, largest marsupial in the world, has through shooting for commerce become extinct or rare in many areas of Australia where it was once prolific. 
All scientific evidence points to this decimation of numbers, which is clear evidence that State Governments are unable to control commercial shooting within their boundaries.' 
We, the people of Australia, feel strong repugnance to the fact that industries should be allowed to operate, which in the past have decimated the koala to extinction over vast areas of this land, and which have now similarly exploited the kangaroo. We feel that the taxpayer should not have the heavy burden of having to pay for the control of an industry which benefits but a few people in this country, and that live kangaroos through their value as tourist attractions are economically far more profitable to our economy and to us aesthetically. We your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Strongly insist that State' Governments prohibit the commercial shooting of kangaroos. 
Enact legislation to give the Commonwealth Government control of all native wildlife throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Tonight I wish to raise a matter which 1 consider to be of great significance to many people in Australia. My attention has been drawn to the cases of 2 young men who seek discharge from the Navy. For obvious reasons their names will not be mentioned. However, the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  who is present in the chamber will know who they are, because correspondence has been exchanged in relation to both of these young men. One young man, who is now 21 years of age, has been in the Navy for 3 years. During his term of service so far he has suffered a number of frustrations through being allocated duties for which he claims he was not psychologically suited and being denied the opportunity to engage in duties for which he believed he was better suited. 
The short reply to this could be that we cannot have enlisted men telling the Navy how it should be run. I wonder whether perhaps that may not be an improvement. This young man's father, who is an ex- naval man, is now not enjoying the best of health - mainly due to war service - and he is finding the management of his business affairs becoming very difficult. He has sought, and still seeks, the release from the Navy of his eldest son to assist him with his interests. I believe that the son is most anxious to leave the Navy because of his disillusionment. However, his application for discharge was refused and he has resigned himself to remaining in the Navy for the balance of his term of engagement. 
I mention the foregoing as background material. In the same vein I also mention the case of another young man who will be 18 years of age in November of this year. He has already served nearly 3 years of a 12 year term of engagement, having enlisted at the tender age of IS years. He spent his first year at HMAS 'Leeuwin' in Western Australia and at present is posted to one of our naval ships. After his first year in the Navy he also became disenchanted with Navy life, but his mother encouraged him to continue. He found life in the Navy was so distasteful that he went absent without leave in Adelaide. He returned to his home in Melbourne, and then went back to the Navy. He suffered a broken leg recently and was hospitalised just before his ship sailed. However, his intense desire to leave the Navy has not abated and he made an application for discharge. The Minister has advised me by letter that the application has been refused.  His  letter is couched in very sympathetic terms, and I should like to thank him for the kind way in which he phrased it. 
But the facts are that this young man is still in the Navy, bound to a life which he has come to loathe, and he is determined to use any method or device to obtain his release.  His  mother is afraid of what action he will take next, and she is distressed to think that her eldest son, because of his almost paranoiac desire to return to civilian life, may do something which he will perhaps regret for the rest of his life. 
The most obvious point arising from both of these instances is that the Navy now has at least two young men who will be unwilling participants in one branch of our armed Services. At least one will apparently stop at nothing to get out of the Navy. Both of them see their term of engagement as almost prison sentences. The problems of both men are similar. They enlisted at an early age for a long period and they have no hope of terminating the arrangement. I feel sure that most honourable members would agree that a young lad at the tender age of 15 years is far too young to commit the next 12 years of his life to a particular course with no chance of change. My own son, at the age of 15 years, was determined to be a motor cycle policeman, a professional wrestler or something just as glamorous. However, at the age of 18 years he left school and started work as a clerk. 1 suggest that the term of engagement is far too long when it is related to the tender ages of the applicants. I further suggest that the difficulties encountered in gaining discharge are too stringent. If it is felt that there is a need for servicemen to give notice before a premature discharge is granted, why cannot a serviceman give a year's notice of his intention to seek a discharge and leave the Service? Why in 1971 do we still have to lay claim to the bodies of servicemen? If servicemen are anxious to leave the Service, the problem cannot be solved simply by refusing to let them go, because some of them will go, anyhow, and those who stay wil be very disgruntled servicemen. The poposition was put to me that as it costs a great deal of money to train servicemen, they should not be allowed to leave the Services easily. I regard that argument as being both dishonest and immoral. Industry spends money on training people and lays no real claim to them. Taxpayers' money is used to maintain universities and colleges. Doctors, lawyers and other professional people are trained at the taxpayers' cost, yet they are not bonded. Once having qualified they may go wherever they please. 
As I see it, looking at the system that exists, we should not penalise those who have become disillusioned. I trust that the Government will consider a review of the circumstances that surround the length of engagement for naval service and that it will endeavour to provide a method by which the 2 young men I have mentioned, and others like them, may be able to obtain a discharge - qualified if you like - and so prevent frustrations which are now being suffered. It is probably too late for any action to be taken to review these 2 cases and therefore the mothers must remain in anguish awaiting telephone calls or visits to advise them of the latest exploits of their sons. I regret deeply that the Minister can do nothing in regard to these 2 cases but if my speech should in some way stir some action on this very real problem at least it will not have been in vain. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an 18yearold seaman, John Clough, left his ship, HMAS 'Sydney', when it was at sea? 
If this is not an isolated instance, can he say how many seamen have left their ships of their own accord under similar conditions in the last 5 years? 
How many of these seamen had previously applied for discharge from the Navy? 
Has the Minister for Immigration read a report in today's Press of the refusal by his Department to grant citizenship to Greek born Nick Karajas of Victoria? Is he aware that this man has ' lived in Australia for many years and has served in the Australian armed forces against Australia's enemies? Does he know that this man's wife is a naturalised Australian and that his children are Australians by birth? As no reason for refusal to naturalise Nick Karajas has been given and as his only disadvantage is his inability to vote in all elections, will the Minister reconsider his decision to refuse this man Australian citizenship? 
I rise to support the amendment so ably moved by my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I shall read the terms of the amendment to the House because it is very obvious from the speeches delivered by honourable members on the other side of the chamber that it has not been properly read nor has it been understood by them. The amendment reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because it does not provide for (a) the severance of the Postmaster-General's Department from the control of the Public Service Board and (b) the application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development by agreement between the Commonwealth and any State and its Authorities. 
I listened very carefully to the last 2 speakers in this debate who curiously enough are members of the Australian Country Party. I have never ceased to be astounded at the manner in which members of the Country Party section of the Liberal-Country Party coalition change their hats. They can change their hats more quickly than anybody I know. 
During the course of this debate we have heard these honourable members say that the increased charges imposed by this Bill should be borne by the people who use the services of the Australian Post Office and how wrong it is for the community to subsidise postal charges. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  asked: 'Where is the difference going to come from? Will it come from the public purse?' One may say to members of the Country Party: 'Where will the $100m come from to subsidise the wool growers?' This money will come out of the pockets of every member of the community. One may ask: 'Where is the money to come from to subsidise the wheat farmers when they not are doing so well?' Once again where the Country Party is concerned the public purse will be plundered. Such money is found and it is paid. 
Let me come to the situation of the Australian Post Office. The Post Office is the largest undertaking engaged in by the Commonwealth. The honourable member for Cowper must be very good at arithmetic; he quoted large figures ad infinitum. But when the subtractions and additions are all finished we find that last year the Post Office had a deficit of $2m on all the services it provides. It finished with this deficit after it had handled an enormous sum of money. Honourable members on the other side of this House have said that because the Post Office lost $2m last year the Government must now increase certain charges because the Post Office must pay its way. Those same honourable members say that those people who use the service must pay for it. There is a fallacy in that argument. As I understand the philosophy behind the Post Office, it is an institution which provides a service to the community. It is a rather unique service. The Post Office deals exclusively in the field of communications. 
Not only is this service enjoyed by those who directly use it. Every member of the community derives a benefit from the existence of the Post Office. If we hold to that premise I can see nothing wrong with the community meeting the difference between charges as they have been and the operating costs as they will be. Again by simple addition and subtraction supporters of the Government, in attempting to justify the Government's decision to increase these charges, have fallen into the trap of assuming that certain things will happen. It has been said that the Post Office is a milking cow for the Government. Members of the Country Party ought to know that at certain times of the year a cow does not lactate. Perhaps the most profitable time of the year for the Post Office would be the Christmas season when we all perform the pagan ritual of sending one another cards. I am not sure why we do this but we do it. This practice must provide quite a substantial source of revenue to the Postmaster-General's Department. However, if the information given to me by ray friends is correct this source of revenue will not be available to the Post Office this year. 
Yes. the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and his Department have been placed in a very bad position by this Government. They have become tax gatherers for the Government and as such they collect a tax that is inequitable and iniquitous because it is not in any way based upon the capacity of people to pay. There is no certainty that a pensioner sends fewer letters or makes fewer telephone calls than anyone else in the community. The imposition of increased postal charges, telecommunication charges, radio and licence fees is in itself inflationary. I was almost convinced by the arguments of supporters of the Government that they were concerned about inflation and intended to do something about it. ApparentlyI gained a wrong impression and those fine words uttered by honourable members on the other side about holding down cost-push, push-pull, upside down and inside out inflation, have been to no avail because, as I said, these increases are an indirect taxation. They are quite inequitable in operation. As the increase is the same for all persons regardless of their income, it is obvious that the lower a person's income is the more seriously he will be affected by such increases. 
I shall point out the percentage increases in charges over the past 2 years. The ordinary letter rate has risen by 40 per cent, the telephone connection fee has risen by 67 per cent, the rental for a telephone has increased by 38 per cent, the cost of a telephone call has risen by 19 per cent, the cost of a television licence has risen by 36 per cent, the cost of a radio licence has risen by 23 per cent and of a combined television and radio licence by 33 per cent. These dramatic increases are forcing the whole area of communications into the luxury bracket. Surely one of the basic aspects of our life is the right to communicate. As we do not live next door to one another we must use some means of communication and the means available to us are becoming more expensive every year. 
It would be recognised by any reasonable person that there are problems in the delivery of mail throughout Australia. Australia is a very large country of about 3 million square miles and it is sparsely populated. The population lives mainly in centres. It would be reasonable to say that it may very well be profitable to deliver mail in closely packed suburban areas but that it would be unprofitable to deliver mail in sparsely populated areas. However, the Post Office has a charter to deliver mail in all areas. Because it endeavours to even out its cost of operation, we find the phenomenon - perhaps it is not a phenomenon; it might be by design - in the closely packed city areas, especially Sydney and Melbourne, of private organisations engaging in the lucrative activity of delivering mail and carrying messages around inner suburban areas. These private delivery services in Melbourne total 22. We get down to the old story of a service being provided to the community and we will find, if this trend continues, the Government pro tern until 1972 will opt out of its responsibility to provide the service. We will have private mail services operating in the lucrative areas and the taxpayers of Australia will be left to pick up the tab for the highly unprofitable areas. Those unprofitable areas will be the country areas. So, as well as receiving a subsidy for their wheat and their wool, members of the Country Party will then carry on a private war to obtain a public subsidy in order to have their letters delivered. 
The issues involved in this matter were clouded by the Postmaster-General. He endeavoured to make a comparison - I believe that he did so in all honesty, and his comparison was quoted extensively by the honourable member for Cowper - between postal charges in Australia and postal charges overseas. As I see it, the Postmaster-General's second reading speech contains very little information on which to make such a comparison. He simply cites some figures. It is like trying to compare a horse with a cow, which is not possible. It is possible to compare only like things. I would consider it highly irrational and improbable to draw a comparison between postal charges in Australia and postal charges in any other place in the world unless all the conditions were similar. There is no indication in the Minister's speech - nor did the honourable member for Cowper assist very much in giving any indication - of whether the services in the other countries with which he compared Australia are comparable with ours. 
Members of the Government parties seem to be mesmerised by huge sums of money. Once sums of money get above hundreds of millions of dollars and into thousands of millions of dollars, their minds boggle. They trot out these figures as some sort of substantiation for the argument they are putting. The matter of interest - this rather iniquitous and very peculiar system of bookkeeping that has been thrust upon the Post Office - has been well aired. Honourable members on the Government side have tried to justify it by saying that every enterprise must pay interest or a dividend. That is all right if money is being borrowed and interest is being paid on the money that is being provided as capital. But in this situation the money belongs to the taxpayers of Australia anyhow and is being used to provide more capital services for use by them. So the taxpayers, having generously made available by means of the taxes they pay to the Government the wherewithal to construct the capital services required, are then called upon to pay out of their own pockets again interest on the money they have borrowed from themselves to provide themselves with a service. I do not know how this system can be described other than as some sort of double taxation. One could not justify it by calling it 'double entry bookkeeping'. One would probably call it 'double dealing bookkeeping'. 
If members of the Government parties like to be mesmerised by huge sums of money, let them know that in the 10-year period from 1960 to 1970 the Post Office paid $650m in this interest charge, and it has been calculated that, if this system continues, by the year 1980 the Post Office will pay $266m in interest charge in that year. This money is returned to Consolidated Revenue. The honourable member for Cowper said that if this charge were not met in this way it would have to be met in some other way. I return to my earlier argument: I agree entirely with that, but I do not see why the people who use the services and facilities of the Post Office should have paid $650m in 10 years. I believe that that $650m should have been spread over the community and paid on the basis of those who had the capacity to pay paying it. 
Running through the PostmasterGeneral's speech, as through every other speech that has been heard from the other side of the House since the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  went to China and deflated the Communist dragon bogy, is the fact that the Government seems to have been searching for some stick with which to beat the Opposition. It is pretty obvious that it is the trade union movement that the Government intends to use, because the Postmaster-General talks about lack of productivity, wage rises and all these things which have now become legion and about which we have come to expect to hear from the Government. 
If we care to examine the figures and to do the arithmetic that members of the Government parties think we ought to do, we find that in 1961 - it is not easy to find any statistics on productivity for the years since 1961, so we have to do some calculations - the number of postal articles handled was 2,048 million. In 1970, nine years later it was 2,725 million, representing an increase of 33 per cent. In 1961 the number of telephone calls made was 1,700 million and in 1970 it was 2,860 million, representing an increase of 68 per cent. Over the same period the number of full time staff rose from 86,559 to 107,520,. representing an increase of only 24 per cent. During 1958-59 a business increase of nearly 9 per cent was met with a staff increase of H per cent. The average increase in productivity over the period of 10 years prior to 1960 was about 3.5 per cent. In 1960-61 there was a further increase of 4.8 per cent in Post Office business, which was met with a staff increase of only 0.7 per cent. 1 am sorry that 1 do not have the time to deal further with that aspect of the matter. If I did, I would prove the duplicity of this Government and its members in endeavouring to put the blame for its own shortcomings and faults on the working people of this country, who, on all statistical examinations, are doing their job and doing it well and certainly are not overpaid for the work they are doing. The Government should stand up and accept the responsibility for its own shortcomings and cease blaming the workers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The speech which we have just heard from the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  well presented and well delivered as it was, does not dispel from my mind the very serious doubt that Papua New Guinea is still held in the minds of Australians as a colony and is treated as such. I make one very brief comment on the speech that the Minister made. He said that there are 103,000 head of cattle in the Territory and then he proudly announced that 14,000 of these cattle are owned by indigenous people. In other words a little over 10 per cent of all the cattle in the Territory are owned by the local people. 
That is another question and it probably bears as much investigation as the matter on which I have just made a brief comment. I support the amendment moved so capably by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Many honourable members on the Government side of this House have endeavoured to justify the Budget proposals introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  but they have had a very hard road to hoe. The Budget quite naturally has attracted the attention of writers, expert and otherwise, outside this Parliament. I would like briefly to quote some of these people. One writer says: 
The Treasurer and his advisers have been mesmerised by the spectre of over demand. Instead of combating inflation, the Budget will encourage it and blow more ill winds on an economy which ls already sick. 
The same writer in his article goes on to say: 
The whole price rise cycle is put in train again . . . there will be more  industrial  disputes over wage claims when people find their take home pay reduced and demand more money 
Another journal states: 
This is an unimaginative and vague Budget. The Treasurer has looked to traditional sources such as company tax, personal income tax and excise duties to service additional Commonwealth Government spending. 
Those quotes are not from radical trade union journals but are the considered opinions of such an august body as the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce as published on the front page of its journal Commerce News' dated 20th August 1971, and of the  President  of the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales as printed on the front page of 'Manufacturers' Bulletin' dated 20th August 1971. The points made by those leaders in commerce and manufacture are well taken. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech under the heading 'The Budget Strategy' said: 
Although cost increases and the price increases which follow them may be due, in the first instance, to increases in wages and other cost elements, they are without doubt stimulated and made possible by conditions of strong demand for resources. Hence, if resistance to such cost increases is to be stiffened, as it must be, there has to be a sufficient degree of restraint on potential demand for resources, particularly in those sectors where it is obviously running too high. 
The Treasurer, as that passage from his Speech indicates, obviously considers inflation to be a serious matter. Elsewhere he speaks of wage increases as being a very serious contributor to inflation. 
Whilst the Treasurer may be of the opinion - and I defend his right to have an opinion - that wage increases are the sole cause of increasing prices, 60 per cent of all taxpayers - that is, those who earn $60 a week or less - hold a converse opinion. They are quite correct in their assessment that it is essential to pursue wage claims in order to maintain their existing standard of living. That standard, may I remind the House, is not a luxurious one. An illustration of the standard of living provided by $60 a week would be the attitude adopted by the Housing Commission of Victoria which will not sell a house to a person whose weekly income is below $70 a week because of the inability of that person to service the debt on the house. So if the Treasurer is correct in his assessment somebody other than the producers of goods and services - remember that the 60 per cent of taxpayers earning less than $60 a week are the producers - is receiving substantial increases in his income, and those increases are being mysteriously transferred back to production costs. 
In fact, this Budget is contributing as much as any other factor to the aggravation of the difference between income and expenditure of the average family. It has attacked the average family in every way. It has increased taxation, fares, postage, telephone charges, the cost of a television licence, the cost of cigarettes, hospital charges and many more areas that are expenses to the family. Perhaps that is the true strategy of the Budget. The tactics are clear: Needle the unionist until he fights for his rights; then batter him into submission. 
The arguments advanced by the Government and its spokesmen are meaningless, but the Government obviously sees a necessity to bolster its rapidly falling stocks by espousing the gigantic untruth of wage rises causing price rises as a sort of artillery piece to be used against those bad lads, the trade unionists of this country. The Treasurer speaks vaguely of strong demand for resources. He would lead us to believe that the populace is demanding more than can be supplied to it. 
This poses the question: What is the community seeking so avidly that it is in short supply? Weil, those for whom 1 speak, that is, those who work to create the goods and services, have simple tastes. The things that they require are not in short supply. Supermarkets are well stocked with food. They do not queue for bread and milk. Clothing is not rationed. When they can afford it. they can purchase furniture, household goods, electrical appliances and even motor cars from stock. All goods and services are readily available to those who can pay. Sellers are in competition with each other to sell. One night's viewing of any commercial television programme or the scanning of newspapers will advise of the many sellers who wish to sell. provided that the worker is able and willing to pay the exorbitant prices asked for land and dwellings, he may buy these off the hook, as it were. The Associated Chambers of Manufacturers and the Bank of New South Wales report that 72 per cent of Australian manufacturers are operating below capacity owing to an insufficiency of new orders. Therefore, where is this great demand which is causing our monetary problems? Far be it from me to have the temerity to challenge the knowledge of the Treasurer, but he has lost me and 1. am sure a number of Australians with his jiggery pokery which is dignified by being called a Budget. 
The aorta of this whole exercise seems to be, in order of preference:  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the trade unions which make an invaluable contribution to the development of this country and the members of the trade unions who can proudly and rightly be called the backbone of this nation, lt is understandable to me and,  1  am sure, to my friend Bob Hawke, that the 
Government and especially its spokesmen on industrial matters should mount a virulent campaign against a person such as he. He is under attack as an individual, not as the holder of the office of President of the ACTU. The reason for that attack is fairly obvious. His ability, tenacity and sagacity are a threat to the ivory tower of capitalism in this country. I will never cease to be amazed at the statements, innuendos and speculation on trade unions and the internal affairs of trade unions by people whose very words condemn them as being totally ignorant of the matters on which they profess knowledge. 
There was a great deal of falk a short time ago about productivity. Those who have not yet realised the truth are still bandying this nice sounding word around. Those who have come to realise what productivity is have at least understood the fallacy of blaming any lack of productivity on the workers. The annual report for the year ended 30th June 1971 of the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales was delivered by  Mr A.  J. White. Tt is reported in the 'Manufacturer's Bulletin' of 17th August 1971. It lists matters for the attention of the Government. Amongst other things,  Mr White  mentioned: 
Governments can help by: 
Using their taxing powers to encourage productivity growth, for example through an investment allowance on equipment that is specifically installed to improve efficiency or to increase sales volume through export. 
Increasing special allowances for spending by companies on approved research projects that will raise productivity. 
Changing any laws or regulations that add to costs without giving any benefits to the community. 
Through the whole of this address, the knowledgeable man who gave it,  Mr A.  J. White, seemed very clearly to lay the blame for lack of productivity where it really exists: This is in lack of organisation by the managers and not by the workers. So let us have an end to this prattling which such dedicated conservatives as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  periodically deliver in this House. Let ns be real. Let us take an adult position and use the resources of government and parliament to examine and initiate financial situations and set about solving them. 
It is very interesting to hear the questions and answers in this place on unemployment. The Leader of the Opposition forecast an unemployment figure of 100,000 in the speech in which he moved this amendment. This statement caused Government members to engage in the favourite pastime of ridiculing the Leader of the Opposition. But again they found that they had a tiger by the tail when the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his speech confirmed that figure of 100,000. But let me put another point of view. Let me put a comparison. The unskilled manual worker is a pretty good barometer for the employment field. He is the last to find work and the first to lose it. Taking the statistics for Victoria and comparing the position in July 1970 with the position in July 1971, we find that in 1970 in the unskilled manual category there were 303 vacancies for men and 2,483 men seeking those vacancies; or 8 men seeking each job. In July 1971, there were only 176 vacancies but 3,279 men were seeking them. In other words, 18 men were looking for each job that was available. The figure of 8 men a job in 1970 had risen to 18 men a job in 1971. The picture for Australia in percentage form was even worse. In July 1970, there were 3 men seeking each job in the Commonwealth. A year later, in July 1971, that number had trebled. Nine men were seeking each job. This is an alarming trend. The Budget seems to make every endeavour to give impetus to that trend, apparently to satisfy the conservative philosophy of controlling the economy and disciplining the unions by creating a pool of unemployed. 
Honourable members opposite are mesmerised by the magnitude of figures and frequently they have cited the fact that 2 million man days are lost each year as a result of strikes. However, no effort has been made to explain the reasons for those strikes. The only exception would be when the Minister for Labour and National Service answered a question recently and had the decency and honesty to acknowledge the share of guilt that lies with shipowners and their representatives in relation to stoppages on the waterfront. I suggest that an examination of all disputes would not absolve the employers from responsibility. 
Two million man days were lost last yea/ through strikes. We have an estimated work force of Si million people and that means that each working day 5i million man days of work are performed. If you really want to see figures of gigantic proportions you can multiply 5 million by 250, which is approximately the number of working days in a year, and you will obtain the number of man hours available each year. But rather than go through that arithmetical exercise suffice to say that 2 million man days represents about 3 hours work per worker per year. Good heavens, such a minute amount of work would be lost by each worker in a year simply by losing 4 minutes from work each week. 
Let us continue with our little excursion into the strange land of arithmetica. With 75,000 people unemployed, we are losing 75,000 man days each day so that in less than 5 weeks 2 million man days - this seems to mesmerise honourable members on the other side - in production has been lost. Another facet overlooked by Government supporters is the industrial accidents that take place. I do not think it is generally realised that 14,000 people are injured every day through accidents at work. By multiplying 14,000 people by 250, representing the working days in a year, we get a loss of 3 J million man days a year lost because of industrial accidents. That is half as many man days again as are lost through strikes. This is- truly a frightening statistic. Let me remind honourable members that many disputes and many man hours are lost to production, if you like, because men refuse to work in unsafe conditions. 
The Builders Labourers Union, which was one of those unions attacked in this House today, is very conscious of the safety of its members. It is not the only union that is so concerned about its members. Again I would say to the Government: Cut out politicking and get on with governing. The great cry recently was the need to hobble the activities of progressive unionists by insisting on secret ballots before workers went on strike. 'Good show' said the band-waggoners, 'let us do it.' But there always has to be a spoil sport. Someone read the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act and found section 45. He found that he already had the power to do what he wanted. It is like the boy who picked up a snake: he had hold of it but did not know what to do with it. Section 45 of that Act reads: 
Where- 
. . . 
the Commission constituted by not less than 3 members nominated by the  President  (at least one of whom is a presidential member of the Commission) thinks that the views of the members, or of a section or class of the members, of the organization or of a branch of the organization upon a matter ought to be ascertained with a view to assisting the prevention or settlement of the dispute, the Commission so constituted may order that that matter be submitted to a vote of those members, or of the members of that section or class taken by secret ballot (with or without provision for absent voting) in accordance with directions given by the Commission. 
The sooner this Government and its supporters realise the disservice they render to the community and the lack of political mileage they gain from attacking the unions the sooner someone will take the helm and steer our nation on a firm course. 
The Budget allegedly does something to correct the situation so far as pensioners are concerned. The sum of $1.25 plus the 50c granted earlier this year sounds marvellous. Honourable members opposite have praised it greatly, but they are not pensioners and they do not have to maintain themselves on this pittance. The increases were hailed and justified by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  by comparing them with payments made in the 1940s - politicking again instead of giving the facts. Pensioners have a right to live at a standard of living comparable with the contemporary society and not with some previous standard of living, certainly not one of almost 3 decades ago. 
A comparison with the average weekly wage as a yardstick shows a different picture. It shows a decrease in value from 25 per cent of the average weekly wage in 1946 to 18 per cent in 1972 - the lowest for 26 years. What a disgraceful and sordid story. Pensioners are in a dreadful plight. This fact is known to the Australian Labor Party but what about the position of other fixed income earners. Their situation is little better. There are many other things which should be brought to the attention of this House and undoubtedly they will be by my colleagues during this debate. 
There is only one other matter I would like to refer to and this was raised by the Leader of the Opposition when he moved his amendment. He spoke about Commonwealth assistance for local government authorities. I have been in this Houselong enough to become cynical towards this Government's understanding of governing. Local government revolves around nothing else quite so much as finance. Government is finance and public finance is Government, and this applies to the third level as much as it applies to the other two. Local government spends a good deal of its time planning permanent works. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works is now paying 58.3c in every dollar of revenue to service its loan commitments. If this situation continues much longer there is no doubt that the Board will, like local government authorities in Victoria and in other States, shortly be raising revenue simply to service debts at very unreal interest rates. Towards this end I place the blame fairly and squarely at the feet of the Government. The Government is responsible for this high rate of interest. It is responsible for the neglect of this area of government. It is time that this Government made some endeavour to do something about the situation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
 When we are dealing with questions involving servicemen, as we are doing this evening, I think it is always sad to listen to the speeches of honourable members opposite who are obviously armchair generals. They fight the wars all over again, they beat the tubs, they play the bugles and they call to arms those men who will have no say in what is to happen to them. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  made a comment about the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who made the statement that there was no immediate threat of danger to Australia for at least 10 years. The honourable member for Maranoa said: 'How would he know this?' Perhaps the honourable member has forgotten - so many things have happened in a short space of time - that the right honourable member for Higgins was Prime Minister of Australia and for a period was Minister for Defence and, as such. I believe would have expert knowledge of the defence situation. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  did not disappoint us. Once again he beat the dram and called men to arms, lt seems that this same honourable gentleman is always calling on people to serve their country, to .join the armed forces, but he never makes much of a showing when it comes to what might be called after sales service; when those who have served their country and have been through the agonies of war return. When the time comes to discuss what repatriation benefits these people should receive I have never known the honourable member for La Trobe to cross the floor and vote for any proposal put by the Opposition. Apparently all he is concerned with is getting them to the war; he is not greatly concerned about what happens when they return. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  called for all troops in Vietnam to go home. In fact, he even called for the Vietnamese troops to go home. I. do not know  where he suggests they should go. He lost me there; I could hot follow that one. 
The thought of enforced military service is, by its nature and according to all logic, abhorrent to those who will be affected by it. In his second reading speech the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  virtually made this point. He said: 
Nonetheless, the majority of Australians continue to support it- 
He was referring to enforced military service -  and this includes the vast majority of those affected directly by the requirement it imposes for compulsory military service. 
I am afraid that my logic must be very much at fault. If the Minister actually believes that statement, if young people believe in military service, then I cannot understand why they do not in fact volunteer and not wait to be conscripted. The relatively short history of Australia will show that those who are affected by enforced military training find it abhorrent. In the years of 1916 and 1917 a majority of the volunteers then serving with the First Australian Imperial Force - my father and my uncle were among them - overwhelmingly voted against the conscription of Australian youth for that war. Our history books tell us that the referenda held were defeated, and the main opposing force was the volunteers already in action in Europe. 
Wealthy capitalists, would-be capitalists, all others who live bv the sweat of others, armchair strategists, straight-out sabre rattlers, civilians convinced of the need for somebody else to die for the salvation of the Empire, society matrons and dowagers and people who were overawed by those who urged others to go and die for their country supported the referenda. However, those who were liable to go, those who had volunteered and were in the trenches with the mud and the stench, harassed by day and night with their lives at risk, voted against it and said in effect: 'Fair go, mate. If you can't convince him that he has something to die for and that he is not just being conscripted to protect the interests of those who sent him, leave him alone.' 
Time passed, and in 1941, for the first time since 1770, Australia was in danger of invasion by a foreign people. The invasions of 1770 and 1784 succeeded. Armed foreigners landed on the Australian continent and took control. By 1941 the descendants of the invaders of 1784 felt they had an obligation to protect from other invaders the continent they now occupied. The aggressor on this occasion was Japan. The Australian Labor Party Government at that time took the view that, as the nation was in danger of invasion and our way of life was threatened, all those who were fit enough to fight should fight. So for the first time we experienced conscription in Australia, an unpleasant course of action which seemed to be needed to be taken to protect our homeland. 
It would be more than fair to say that if Australia enjoyed a socialistic society whereby all the people had an equitable share of all the wealth and an even stake in the natural riches of this continent people would be less reluctant to defend with arms those things which are theirs. However, the historical position has always been that workers and the sons of workers are encouraged to go, and on occasions are sent off to risk their lives to protect and defend the wealth and property of those who encourage them or send them. Meanwhile the owners of property and wealth sit at home, relatively safe, making money and directing operations from the sanctity of the Melbourne Club and other sanctuaries which deny admittance to those who have been sent to fight. 
We move on swiftly now through a little over 2 decades and find, in 1964, the inevitable consequences of the capitalistic system happening again. In that year Australia was engaged in a dirty, immoral and abhorrent warlike operation - as it is nicely called - in Vietnam. This was an Executive decision taken by this guilty Government to commit others - not the Executive, mind you - to go and die for the cause. In the sixth decade of the 20th century young men had the temerity to ask: What cause? It is true that the weight of opinion then supported the action. But we must ask: Whose opinion? It was the opinion of those who would not be involved in the stinking swamps, the steaming jungles and the senseless killing that was Vietnam. Public opinion was ill informed, and the situation was deliberately misrepresented, as subsequent events and information have clearly shown. However, the young men of this country had become more knowledgable. They questioned the morality and the legality of the action taken by the LiberalCountry Party Government and stayed away from recruiting centres in droves. lt was not because they were afraid, not because they had no patriotism and certainly not because they lacked the desire to defend liberty, but simply because they could not be convinced that they were in fact going to defend anything at all, but rather were being used as expendable pawns in an international chess game which was clearly recognisable as a game of power politics. The intelligent action by these young men embarrassed the bloodthirsty men who had taken the action to commit them. An undertaking had been given to foreign powers that Australia would provide a given number of workers' sons to fight. When young men thought about the futility of the situation and refused to volunteer the men with bloodstained hands who called themselves the Government then decided to force men to go, and conscription for active service returned to Australia. But how different it was this time. 
In 1964 Australia was not under threat of invasion, even though the Darcy Meanswells of this country tried to convince us we were, and not all able-bodied men were conscripted. The lottery of death was imposed on Australian youth. Only those young men who were born on a day to be determined by lot were conscripted. Others were free to pursue a normal life. Conscientious objection was restricted to an objection to all wars and all violence. That is comparable to asking a man to answer yes or no to the question: Have you stopped beating your wife? Those young men, and those not so young, who would defend their country against an aggressor but who could not convince themselves that they should be involved in the rape of Indo-China were denied the reasonable and acceptable defence of a conscientious objection to immorality. They were forced to prove the unprovable - an objection to all war. 
Government members are convinced that they are taking a magnanimous attitude by reducing the period of service from 2 years to H years - still on a pot luck basis, still with the threat of imprisonment as the alternative and still with the lack of grounds for defence by draftees. It is with a great deal of sadness in my heart that I say this evening that my own son is one of those whose birth dates have been drawn from the barrel in the lottery of death conducted twice each year with much pomp and ceremony to give some sort of respectability to the most disgusting, degrading and revolting exercise to take place since public executions. If we care to look at the question of conscription and armed service on a basis of reason and not emotion we could come to no other conclusion than that a volunteer army is preferable to one of mixed volunteers and conscripts, and certainly more desirable than an army of conscripts. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide and others who interjected are quite right in what they are saying. The Government is not prepared to give it a go. It must pose, the question: Are numbers altogether necessary? Are numbers the necessary criterion? This Government really astounds me by the way it is mesmerised by numbers and figures. Industrial action - we are told that industrial disputes cost us  2i  million man days a year when there are  5i  million man days worked each day - more and better immigration and the size of the armed forces always appear as numbers and statistics, but never are any background information and reasonably accurate reports by qualified inquirers given as to what the expected requirements are or will be. One hears much talk about the enemy. Apparently the enemy are the vague persons who appear in all Australian folklore known as 'They'. Always They.' Never identified. 
The Australian Labor Party is being berated by honourable members on the Government side of this House for not being realistic about the defence of this country and yet in the two great wars in which Australia has been involved - the 1914-18 war and the 1939-45 war- It was an Australian Labor Party government that carried the day. As I understand the situation, the Nationalist Government as it was then known, led by the then  Mr Robert  Menzies, collapsed in 1941 under its own weight and for the first time a Cabinet asked a Prime Minister to resign. At the following election the Labor Party had the support of the Australian people. It was recognised as having the strength and the courage to defend this country and was given, the job. 
The whole question whether we have one man in our Army or 28,000 is, I think, quite academic. Last year I was in Indonesia with a parliamentary delegation which included members of the Government parties and the other Party in the other place - I believe that is a nice way of referring to it. It seems to me that there is a certain arrogance expressed not only by the Government but on occasions by some Government supporters. Whilst we were in Indonesia we spoke to a general - I understand that there are more generals in Indonesia than there are corporals in Australia - and a question was put to him about Australian troops being posted to Indonesia. It seemed to me that the person who put the question was tending to indicate that we were adopting a patronising attitude towards Indonesia and that we would make available, should they require them, some of our Australian troops to defend Indonesia. When asked how many Australian troops we had the honourable member said we had 28,000. The Indonesian general -gently and kindly reminded us that they had 6 million men under arms and that they did not really require the services of the Australian army to defend Indonesia. This is the sort of numbers game that Government supporters play and this is the sort of arrogant attitude that the Government and Government supporters adopt towards this whole question of defence. lt seems to me that the question of sizeand type of the army has been debated long and loud. Every report that I have ever read has always suggested that a volunteer army is the more desirable. When we  in  the Labor Party speak of raising an Australian army we do not mean, as was suggested tonight, that we would try to encourage unemployed men - and the people who are unemployed are the sons of workers - to join the army and that if they did not join we would conscript them. 
Let us compare the conditions of members of the armed forces with those of civilians. This relates to the Royal Australian Air Force, but I am sure that th: circumstances in the Army are similar. At the end of a fortnight an RAAF corporal with his basic pay, allowances and so on receives  $127.82.  Civilian personnel doing exactly the same work and working beside the corporal take home  $155.47  at the end of a fortnight. There is a difference of $30 a fortnight. 
Then we come to work done at weekends. When RAAF staff work at weekends they later receive  2  days off, but when the civilian works a weekend he receives his  2  days off plus overtime wages for the weekend worked. Travelling allowance is paid to civilians but not to RAAF staff. Free medical services are available to the serviceman. However he cannot insure only his wife and children for medical benefits but must pay for the family benefit. Free issues of overalls and safety shoes are common to both. -  1  merely give some indication of the differences that exist already between civilians and service personnel. Obviously this is one of the reasons why we do not have a volunteer army. The other reason, which I believe to be far more fundamental, is that not enough of the young people of this country own any of the natura! wealth of this country. If they had a stake in the natural wealth  1  am quite sure there would be no difficulties in encouraging them to defend it. But they know, as we know, that the natural wealth of this country is centered in the hands of a very few people. 
When we speak about defence we speak not only about those men who make up the numbers of the armed forces. This Government is very nggardly and very remiss on the whole question of defence and one of these days it will find the problem wrapped right round its neck. It has allowed the aircraft industry to fall to pieces. The roads that are necessary for national defence are a disgrace. Our transport system would not stand up under any sort of an attack. So while this Government and its supporters stand up and talk about how they are taking the initiative and using all of their resources to develop the armed forces which will protect Australia, they are leaving us in a position in which - God forbid that it should happen again - the next time a destroyer gets sunk half the Royal Australian Navy will go to the bottom of the sea. At the same time we will be left with aircraft which we do not own and which will not fly anyhow when we do own them. This is the sort of defence policy that this Government is obviously trying to prop up and the only purpose of national service training is to prop up a defence system that is badly calculated and quite wrong. For this reason young men are taken - 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. As this Government assures us that Australia is: primarily concerned with the democratisation of Vietnam, did Australia have observers in that country to witness the conduct of the recent presidential election? Can he inform the House whether separate ballot boxes were used by those who wished to vote for and those who wished to vote against the only candidate? Is it true that in order to regain their identity cards citizens had to attend at a polling place and cast a vote? If these allegations are true would they not account for the high percentage of citizens who turned out to vote? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least five million dollars immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  who has just resumed his seat, has continued this debate in the same dreary, conservative vein as that of his colleagues. We of the Australian Labor Party have never suggested that anything can be obtained for nothing. We have said only that no student should be disadvantaged because of lack of financial standing of his parents, and also that privilege should not accrue to wealthy just because of the existence of wealth. In other words, opportunity should be equal to all and limited only by the capacity of the individual. 
In this debate, I wish to speak on one matter in particular. That is the question of Commonwealth scholarships. The current appropriation for Commonwealth secondary scholarships is S7m which, to all intents and purposes, is close to the $6,791,420 spent last year out of an appropriation of $6.8m. The situation with Commonwealth technical scholarships conveys much the same story. This year $ 1.065m is appropriated as against an expenditure last year of $ 1.096m of an appropriation of $ 1.23m. These 2 amounts do not seem to bear any relationship to their logical successors, the Commonwealth university scholarships and the Commonwealth advanced education scholarships, each of which has been increased considerably this year - and this seems to have been the practice over past years, as far as I can see. Perhaps the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has a logical explanation for the anomaly that seems to exist. However, prima facie it appears curious that there is no significant increase in the amount allowed from year to year for these vital scholarships. 
Statistics indicate to us that our population is increasing constantly. Surely it is reasonable to assume that this increase is fairly evenly spread over the age groups in the community, and ours is a young community. The bulk of the people are in the younger age groups; indeed, 38 per cent of the entire population is under 19 years of age. The numbers of people in the younger age groups are also enormous and we can expect the numbers of young people moving from age group to age group to increase annually. Therefore, it is reasonable to say that as the numbers of potential recipients of scholarships increase, as the value of scholarships remains constant and as the total sum appropriated for scholarships each year changes only minimally, then there will be a decrease in the per capita allocation for scholarships. In other words, a smaller percentage of students will receive a scholarship each year. 
Children living in areas such as the one that I represent will be further disadvantaged for a number of reasons. Statistics relating to scholarships granted per head of students clearly, show the imbalance that exists already between students in my area and students in more affluent areas. There is a greater percentage of young people in my area. Research shows that 49 per cent of the population in my area is under 19 years of age compared with the national average of 38 per cent. As I have said, there is a less affluence in parts of my electorate than in other areas of the metropolis and because of the inequitous practice of the Victorian Liberal Party Government in opting out of one of the major cost factors of education, that is, the provision of facilities in schools, and thrusting this cost upon parents, school committees and school councils, inequity has become rife. Schools situated in areas where parents are able to contribute are better served with facilities and teaching aids than are those schools where parents are not in a financial position to contribute. This serious situation is compounded by the fact that teachers are human and seek and deserve the best possible working conditions. In the main - and there I am not being critical of teachers - they seek postings to schools which are well equipped and they endeavour to by-pass those schools which lack the tools of trade that a teacher requires. 
So the true position is that children who come from a background which is not conducive to extra curricular assistance are sent to schools which are ill equipped with facilities and on occasions staffed with teachers who are only marking time until a vacancy occurs at a school in a more affluent area. It would probably do a great deal of good if honourable members were to consider what I have just said. The student who starts out at a disadvantage remains at a disadvantage virtually for all of his student life. This situation has not been dramatised. I am simply stating my experiences over many years. I lay the blame fairly and squarely at the feet of the Liberal Party. It is in government in Canberra and it is in government in Victoria. If Australia is to progress as a nation of high repute and productivity, both materially and spiritually, we have an obligation to ensure that no intellectual resources are wasted. The best way to ensure that this happens is to see that every child, irrespective of background or the financial standing of the family, is assured of the opportunity to be educated to the capacity of his intellect. 
The niggardly attitude of this Government will not solve the problem. A crisis exists in education, and that crisis can best be solved with money. Any money spent on this item is not an expense; it is an investment in the very future of Australia. This is a very deep question which requires a good deal more time than is available in this debate. My colleagues are covering this subject very well, but we will have an opportunity in the future - I trust in the very near future - to debate this subject at greater length and perhaps greater depth. Returning to the question of scholarships, I point out that inequities exist within inequities. Recently a matter was brought to my attention where a lad was attending the fifth form at a State high school and was studying physics and chemistry. He holds a Commonwealth secondary scholarship which entitles him to $200 for living expenses, $50 for books and $150 for school fees, if required. However, as he attended a State school where fees are not required, he received only $250 of a $400 scholarship, the $150 allowed for fees not being claimed. lt so happened that the teachers at this school took industrial action and withdrew their services. The lad's father was concerned about the boy's future, and on the advice of the principal enrolled the boy with a recognised correspondence school so that there would be minimal interruption to his studies. When the lad's father made an application to the Department for the cost of the correspondence course, which amounted to $78, as part of the $150 allowable for fees which he did not claim originally, the application was refused. This Government was prepared to pay $150 towards fees if the lad attended a private school, but it refused to pay $78 when circumstances beyond the control of the father or the son caused the parent to consider that it was in the best interest of his son's education to enrol him temporarily with a correspondence school. The Department's reply was rather interesting. It stated: 
The Minister has decided that parents of Commonwealth secondary scholarship holders could not be reimbursed for outside tuition taken as  a  result of strike action by teachers. 
It seems to me to be a spiteful act when Ministers, whose Government's policies cause teacher problems, vent their anger at teachers' action against the innocent parties, the parents of students. There can be no justifiable explanation for such petulant action. 1 trust that the remarks I have made tonight, particularly those in the latter part of my speech, do not fall on deaf ears and that some action is taken to rectify such a situation so that no longer will parents of students who attend State schools be disadvantaged, as this parent was, through circumstances over which neither the student nor the parent had any control. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I do so, because housing is probably the most fundamental question that faces the community. Without shelter man perishes rather quickly. So the very thing that we are talking about is his . basic need for shelter. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  spoke loud and long in praise of the Liberal-Country Party Government and what it has done. He used the words 'Labor did nothing', and this Government has done a marvellous job'. I suppose the honourable member would be speaking of the very short period - some 4 years - during which Labor was in officer after the Second World War. During that time it laid down the guidelines for so many things that this present Liberal-Country Party Government has followed. That was the time of post war reconstruction. That was the time of the initiation of our immigration programme. That was the time of the institution of housing policies and all the other policies that have been followed by this Government. I see the honourable member shaking his head. But in what greater way could he condemn the Liberal Party than to stand up after 21 years of Liberal Party Government and admit that there is still a housing problem in the community? What greater condemnation could this Government suffer than that inherent in the fact that after 21 years of uninterrupted role housing problems still exist in our community. Not only do they still exist, but on all comparative bases the problems are worse now than they were 21 years ago. 
This whole question of housing revolves, as I see it, around 2 factors. One is that which has been raised by the Opposition but is never spoken of by supporters of the Government. This covers matters which affect people who are buying houses or who are endeavouring to acquire land - the high price of land, the high interest rates and the lack of uniformity in the building codes. All these are things for which the Federal Government can take responsibility and should take initiative. In this area I am not critical of the Minister for Housing because he is as much a captive of the Executive of the Liberal Government as is any other Minister. So I blame him not for the lack of initiative; rather do I blame the Government that he steadfastly supports and purports to represent. This is the Government that seeks to take initiative in matters where it can take the initiative. 
Other home buyers vitally affected are those already in homes which they are purchasing and who now face a very serious situation. If I may I will use as an illustration the circumstances in my own State of Victoria. The problem facing the people who have purchased homes from the Victorian Housing Commission at a price of $14,000 to $15,000 for the house and land with a minimum deposit of $200 is that in one area - which is the most recently developed area - the repayments total $80 a month. The repayment of $80 a month extends over 45 years. In order to qualify for the purchase of a house from the Housing Commission a young couple must show that they have a certain number of children, that they have been on the waiting list for a certain length of time and also that their income is not less than $70 a week. They must have an income that is not in excess of $80 a week. 
This is a problem that has been directly created by this Federal Government because of its lack of initiative in the housing field. Young couples presumably and supposedly on low incomes - although they must have a minimum income of $70 per week - are committed to mortgage repayments of $80 a month. This works out to 25 per cent of their income being spent on mortgage repayments only. On top of this there is an average of $2 to $3 a week on the same houses in the particular area I referred to, which takes the commitment to more than $90 a month. This does not cover such things as insurance, maintenance and all the other odds and ends that go with owning a home. It would be no exaggeration to say that the payments to be made by these people who are low income earners and desperately in need of housing total $100 a month. If the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  or any other supporter of the Government can tell me that that is a fine situation then I will assure him that I am very sadly disillusioned about the whole thing. It is absolutely disgraceful. 
What is wrong with it?', asks the honourable member. 
It is $25 a week out of an income of $70 a week. We must remember that these are young people who have just purchased a home and need other things. These young people finish up in the hands of the sharks in control of hire purchase companies when they buy their refrigerators, washing machines, furniture and so on. This is when they start to suffer. Only last week I attended a meeting held in a private house organised by people involved in this sort of thing. It would make any honourable member's heart bleed to listen to the sincere and genuine stories told by these people. These people are not convinced by the pretty words spoken about what a fine job the Liberal Party has done for them in the field of housing. These people are not convinced. They are in a very serious situation. 
In this situation other difficulties arise. When a household is under great financial strain, as these households are, this is the time when domestic conflict commences and all sorts of side issues arise. There are the side effects from the fact that the family is financially overcommitted, and of course this is when the Government has to do something about social welfare, social services, health or in some other field. This Government is adding to and compounding the problems. It is not solving the difficulties faced by these people. It is my firm belief that this Government has no intention of solving these problems. 
It created the problems in the first place, as my colleague says, and it then compounded them. At the same time its supporters stand up in this place or on the hustings and say what a fine job they have done over 21 years. They should be ashamed. When we speak of housing we are speaking primarily of borrowing money. The purchase of a home is usually the only purchase of such a magnitude and people generally buy only one house in their lifetime. If we are to talk about money, the thing that will affect the people most will be the rate of interest. The housing rate of interest has been moved once again by the action of this  Liberal Party Government in this House. The reason given for increasing the rate of interest was that the increase would attract overseas investors to Australia - but ali it did was to attract hot money. But that is a different matter. 
I come back to my original point, that no consideration has been given by this Government to the home owner or the home buyer when the Government decided to increase the interest rate on housing loans. This Government has given great consideration to the needs of the manufacturers in the community and the speculators in the community but no consideration has been given to the home owners. The interest rate was arbitarily increased. It is as a direct result of the increase in the interest rate that this problem in Victoria now exists. The problem is not isolated in Victoria. It can be directly traced back to this Government. If this Government is sincere in its claim that it does intend to do something for the people of Australia in terms of housing, rather than talking about it it should act. It should look at the matters I have raised. The Government  20j69/71- j-  P7J should inform itself about those matters and try to understand them. This Government should form within Australia one vast housing co-operative to which all people can contribute and from which all can receive. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That as part of the world community, the 
Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least 10 million dollars immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray.  Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Rural issues aside, I suppose that wages and industrial unrest probably are the most mentioned matters in this House. Whenever another Government inspired crisis looms the blame is placed on demands for wage increases, the high wages now being paid and/or industrial unrest. The fault is laid always at the door of that curse of the non-working class, the trade union movement. The spirit of the Conservatives who schemed, legislated, bullied and bludgeoned in an endeavour to prevent men from organising themselves for their mutual benefit is embodied in those honourable members sitting opposite on the Government side of the House tonight. They have never forgiven the workers for having the temerity to suggest that they should conduct their own affairs without the benevolent but firm hand to guide them. Generations later the Conservatives are still scheming, legislating, bullying and even bludgeoning workers in an endeavour to prevent them organising. 
Members of our society clearly stand in 2 camps, those who seek and those who deny. Over the years workers have fought for and gained many benefits, including the 8-hour day, the right to form unions, the right to vote, workers' compensation, paid leave for recreation and illness, the abolition of child labour and many other things. During the course of those campaigns the calamity howlers wailed that the country would not be able to afford those things and that the nation would become bankrupt. There were also angry cries of: Who the hell do they think they are?' We can still hear the cries of the Conservatives at the time of the introduction of paid leave, the 10 basic wage and especially the 40-hour week. There were forecasts of doom by the prophets who sit opposite. 
The same forecasts are made today about the 35-hour week and the claim for an extra week's leave. A little more consistency on the part of the Government would help to clarify the cloudy position. It is not good enough for shabby arguments to be presented simply for party political gain. We have often heard members of the Government tell us how prosperous the community is and how healthy the economy is - and of course credit is claimed by the members of this LiberalCountry Party coalition Government. Yet they still insist that working hours should be lengthened, recreation leave reduced and wages lowered. Surely, when speaking of prosperity it should follow, to be consistent, that that prosperity be shared by the community and that no section should be excluded. History has shown that the knockers were wrong and future historians will record that present day knockers also were wrong. 
One thing that seems to preoccupy honourable members on the Government side is adding up the number of man-days lost through industrial stoppages. There was quite a fad some weeks ago for Government supporters to speak of 2 million man-days being lost last year through industrial action. There was a vague attempt somehow to associate members of the Australian Labor Party, through unions and strikes, with members of the Communist Party. However, even the most assiduous can-kicking rabid anti-Communist opposite could not quite find the association he hoped existed. This disappointment was coupled with a realisation that 4.5 million man-days are worked each day and the fact that 2 million man-days were lost each year seemed somewhat insignificant by comparison. Perhaps we should take note of what the honourable  Sir Richard  Kirby said in the fourteenth annual report of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. He said: 
The present Australian industrial context compares well when one reads of the frequency and intensity of overseas industrial problems, some leading to violent actions. We of course have our fair share of strikes and so on but these on the whole are high in frequency but short in duration. This is a tribute to a system which allows for quick resolution of contentious matters where things other than money are involved. 
We should also look closely at the statistics relating to industrial stoppages. The 'Commonwealth Year Book' for 1970 contains tables of the latest statistics available on industrial disputes and causes as at 1969. Stoppages of only 10 man days or more are listed, and they are listed under 4 headings: Wages, hours and leave'; 'Physical working conditions and managerial policy'; 'Trade unionism'; and 'Other'. They are worth investigating singly. Wages, hours and leave, which accounted for 34 per cent of the stoppages in 1969, arc obvious causes, and in this area employers can be as culpable as employees. The adoption of arrogant attitudes, stonewalling and frustrating and delaying tactics can test the patience of the most stoic worker. In times of over production the employer has a vested interest in a stoppage of work, and he can generally bring one about if he so desires. 
Physical working conditions and managerial policy accounted for 51 per cent of all stoppages, and in this area workers would be far less to blame than employers. Men cannot be expected to work under unsafe or unhealthy or even uncomfortable conditions, lt should be remembered that it is estimated that 14,000 industrial accidents occur each working day. Managerial policy, seems to carry a sinister connotation and can hardly be associated with workers. Trade unionism was the cause of 9 per cent of stoppages and the category 'Other' 6 per cent. 1 assume that the latter category includes those so-called terrible political strikes about which we hear from honourable members opposite. It is beyond my comprehension why the Government wants to aggravate the situation by imposing penal provisions on workers who withdraw their labour. 
Many books have been written on the question of industrial relations, not the least of which was one prepared in 1970 on the advice of the Department of Labour and National Service, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers Policy Committee. At that time  Mr Snedden  was Minister for Labour and National Service. One of the guidelines suggested for settling disputes - which are very informative - is the first one, which states: 
There shall be effective means of consultation between employers and their employees and unions on all matters of mutual interest and concern. . . . 
The imposition of penal clauses on workers can lead only to an aggravation of any situation. To draw an analogy, the representatives and executives of big business who sit on the Government side of the chamber, would scream the roof off this building if the selling price of a product were fixed, as are the wages of a worker, and it became uneconomic to manufacture a product, as it sometimes becomes uneconomic for a worker to sell his labour, and the manufacturer were forced by legislation to continue to manufacture. If the manufacturer withdrew his product, in the same way as a worker withdraws his labour when he finds himself in an uneconomic position, and if the manufacturers were then fined for withdrawing it, I am sure that not one honourable member opposite would say that that was a fair, reasonable and equitable situation. But that is exactly the position in which a worker finds himself.- If it becomes uneconomical for him to sell his labour or if the price he receives for his labour is unsatisfactory and he withdraws it he is driven back to work with whips, he is fined, his organisation is fined and penalties are imposed upon him. If our society or our community is as fair and equitable as supporters of the Government believe it to be they would be looking for improvements to all sections of the community rather than only to the workers, those who produce. (Quorum formed.) 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is  27  per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act  1935-1967).  Also that there is customs duty of up to  47  per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is the Government Printer a department for which he is responsible? If so, can he confirm or deny that coupons are being printed to enable unemployed people to obtain food parcels? 
Ten minutes is not long in which to criticise the way in which each Federal government in turn over the last 20 years has allowed the social services and repatriation systems to run down. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  seemed to spend his 10 minutes lauding that which has been done by the Commonwealth Government. I think that my colleagues on this side of the chamber who have spoken already have indicated statistically and otherwise the shortcomings of the systems that operate at the moment. There is much talk about the tapered means test. The honourable member for Mitchell said that this was an improvement. I remind him that my Party has as a part of its policy and platform the abolition of the means test, not its tapering as happens at the moment, because we are aware of the situations that could exist with a tapered means test unless it were constantly upgraded. To give an example, I point out that those pensioners who are not receiving the maximum rate of pension have received only a 50c increase in their pension since 1969, and if that is not bad enough, those who are not on the maximum pension are taxed 50c in the $1 on any increase in their earnings. These are not people on huge incomes. They are not people on $14,000 or  $15,000  a year. But for every $1 they earn in excess of their permitted income they are taxed 50c, so they lose half of any additional income they earn. I should not think that that is a very good recommendation for the tapered means test. 
Many people are affected by this very poor social services system that we have in Australia and not the least of those affected by the anomalies that arise are the invalid pensioners. Invalid pensioners are disadvantaged in 2 ways. Firstly, the invalid pensioner cannot work - that is why he receives an invalid pension - and he does not enjoy the benefit of being able to earn something over and above his pension. He is restricted to his pension. If his wife works his pension is reduced, and in effect she is taxed 50c in the dollar. Because of their disabilities, generally speaking a telephone is a necessity for invalid pensioners. Even though concessions are given on telephone rental, it is an expense that must be incurred. I think there would be nothing wrong with the Commonwealth Government waiving rental charges for invalid pensioners. 
The present Liberal-Country Party Government seems to have ari obsession with thrusting its responsibility down the line of government. In this respect it follows a general pattern of passing responsibility through the State governments right down to local government bodies which cannot defend themselves. Appeals to municipal authorities are made by people on pensions for a reduction in their municipal rates. Municipal rates, I remind the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  are rising only because of various costs that are thrown upon municipalities by the action or the inaction of this Government. Municipal rates are rising at a much faster rate than are pensions. Pensioners who own their own homes and who must pay rates are in a very bad position. As I understand it, in New South Wales the municipalities may give a 50 per cent reduction in the rates, and that 50 per cent reduction is made up by the State Government. I believe further that that process was introduced into New South Wales by a Labor government. 
As my colleague indicates, the Commonwealth does not help them. Take an area such as my electorate. The city of Broadmeadows is certainly not noted for the prosperity of its inhabitants and certainly is not without pensioners and other people in necessitous circumstances. So what the Minister for Social Services and his Government are asking the municipal council of Broadmeadows to do is to say to people in circumstances only marginally better than those of people on social service that they must make an additional contribution in their rates to provide the social services for those who need them because this Government is too mean, too niggardly and too miserly to do anything about it. 
May I return to a subject that I mentioned just briefly. I skipped right over it because of the shortness of time. It is a matter that could well take up a good deal of debating time in this place because it is so serious. The honourable member for Mitchell told us what a fine job the Minister for Social Services has done in the whole field of pensions. All I say to that, without any malice aforethought, is that as the Minister is a member of the Ministry, his powers of persuasion in influencing his colleagues cannot be very good. 
Many people come to this country as migrants from overseas. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has handed to me a copy of a letter that he has received from the Federation of Netherlands Societies in New South Wales. He tells me that he has received up to 50 letters on this subject. The number I have received is no fewer than that. These letters express the view, commonly held by people from Europe, that the social service benefits in every European country are far and away better than they are in Australia. Although this letter comes from the Netherlands Societies, what it says is nonetheless true of people who come to Australia from Italy, Malta and most other European countries. The letter reads: 
The members of the Federation of Netherlands Societies in New South Wales in General Meeting noted with much regret the unrest amongst migrants and Australians alike caused by the absence of an adequate system of social services in Australia. The absence of a feeling of security is one of the main reasons why so many migrants return to the country of their birth. 
That is a sentence which I think deserves a good deal of consideration. The letter continues: 
The Federation has further noted that an estimated one million people in Australia are living below Kie poverty line. 
That is in a population of 134 million. The letter goes on: 
According to the statistics Australia spent only 5.5 per cent pf its gross national product on social services in 1968-69. A complete overhaul of the whole system of social services is necessary and we urge your Government to start this overhaul now. 
It is not our government; it is the Government of honourable members opposite. We of the Opposition have already indicated our plans for a national superannuation scheme, something which the Minister for Social Services propounded but, as I said before, his powers of persuasion proved to be not great enough to. convince his Cabinet colleagues. 
This could very well be the reason why migrants are returning home; perhaps one could work out the cost of that and do a nice statistical exercise on it. 
In the short time that remains I should like to read to the House the recommendations which were made by a group of prominent citizens on what they called post-retirement payments', which I think is a much better term than pensions. The recommendations are: 
The present situation and likely future needs and problems of (he various categories of retired people in our community; 
How they are presently being maintained by pension payments and other concessions, and how this help squares with the assessment of needs; 
Whether the pension covers all persons who should be covered; 
Whether there should be changes in any areas and if so what areas; 
How what we are doing in Australia compares with comparable countries overseas; 
Whether the present method of determining pensions is the best or other alternatives should be considered; 
Whether the pension should be tied to some other economic yardstick- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly prayThat the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many international passenger flights (a) terminate at and (b) commence from Melbourne (Tullamarine) Airport each week: 
How many (a) international passenger, (b) domestic passenger and (c) domestic freight flights are made from the airport each week between the hours of11 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
Are schedules planned to operate between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. If so, will they comprise passenger or freight flights. 
Much of the speech of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  did not relate to the subject before the House. I recognise his long service in this House and his great experience in this matter. However, I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker  that I will make every endeavour to keep my remarks relevant to the matter that is before the House. As the honourable member for Wentworth did make some comments, I think that one or two of them require an answer. As I recall, the last part of his speech dealt with the Australian Labor Party's immigration policy. He tried to justify that by claiming that it had some sort of relevancy with a series of 
Bills, one of which is the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill. The honourable member got off on his usual kick that only the profit makers in the community matter and that only the measure of profits determines the prosperity of the community. Of course, a logical follow-up was that wages and salary increases are the cause of the difficulties that now confront us. He then said that unemployment follows. I should think the honourable member, knows enough about economics to know that the whole capitalist system is beset with crises; it goes from boom to inflation to unemployment to depression to war. That has been the pattern and those who claim to Understand it cannot control it. He spoke Of the phenomenon in the Western world and its inability to solve this problem. Is he implying that countries that have socialist governments are not experiencing the same difficulties? He said that only the capitalist countries are experiencing what he calls this phenomenon. 
However, to return to the matter which the House is now debating, I pay great credit to the speech which was delivered by my good friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  when he raised the question of local government. This seems to me to be. closely related to the Stares Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill because this  Bin  makes available to the various States the sum of $209. 8m on an interest free basis. That to me seems to be the attraction, lt throws info the melting pot the whole question of capital works performed by the States, but unfortunately completely ignores the serious difficulties which are being experienced by other statutory bodies. By that I mean local government and semi-government bodies. There needs to be a very clear understanding of what exactly is happening day to day throughout the length and breadth of this great continent of ours. Honourable members arc well aware that government is constructed at 3 levels - the Federal, the Slate and the local level - and each level in turn has its local or complementary statutory authorities and all these bodies are engaged in doing work, either capital or maintenance. To do this work, of course, primarily they require money. The Federal, State and local governments are equipped with taxing powers to raise most of the money required. Certain statutory authori ties also are equipped with these powers. For example, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works is able to levy a rate on people living in the Melbourne metropolitan area. Others, such as the Country Roads Board in Victoria are financed directly by Government grant. 
The advantages of financing capital works by interest free loans or grants are obvious. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works is an example of a statutory authority which must go on to the loan market and compete with other borrowers. It is not so long ago that the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works was offering to the public interest rates for its loans of about 3 per cent or 4 per cent and investors who were looking for security of investment were attracted. This Liberal-Country Party Coalition Government, which is' supported by less than half of the Australian electors, increased interest rates ostensibly to attract overseas investors. However all that it attracted were speculators. But the effect of this interest rate increase flowed through the community and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, as well as many other statutory authorities fell victim. 
This Government's invitation to the public to speculate also had its effect and now the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works as well as other like authorities has had to up the ante and, for its recent foray to raise funds from the public by loan, had to offer 7 per cent and. higher interest rates to attract loan funds. The effect of that sort of action must be patently obvious, lt has meant only that a larger amount of revenue must be used for debt servicing and this also has a dual effect. Firstly, it means that a lesser portion of moneys available is able to be used for positive purposes, such as capital works. Secondly there is an endeavour to raise more revenue by raising the rate. Indeed, both of these things are happening. On the most recent information available, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works is now using something more than half of its revenue for debt servicing. The situation is really more serious than even that statement shows it to be because although 58c of each $1 of revenue is used for debt servicing,, there is precious little reduction of the capital indebtedness of the Board. In other words, more than half of its revenue is used for interest payments and loans are repaid by encouraging conversion by the lenders. 
When the Board of Works sends out its rate notices, it also sends a little brochure to explain what it is doing. It is of such interest that I should like to read the words of the  Chairman  of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works,  Mr A.  H. Croxford. He said: 
Everybody, including the Board is concerned that continual rising costs compel the Board to Increase rates. 
I suppose it is fair enough to try to square off for a 12) per cent rate increase. He continued: 
The increased rate the Board is forced to make this year will produce $10.5m. Additional wages will require $4m- 
This is the interesting part: 
. and additional interest and redemption charges $5.8m. 
He said that the Board pays award wages, is bound by various wage fixing tribunals, and there have been various increases in wages this year. He gives some of the percentage increases. He then poses the question: 
Why is the interest bill so high? Among the major constructing authorities in the Commonweal*, the Federal Government is the only one which can produce enough income from revenue to finance capital works. 
These are  Mr Croxford's  words. He continued: 
Therefore, the Board must borrow money to pay for its water, sewerage and drainage projects. This allows the capital cost of major works to be spread over several generations and repaid over some years. 
At about the same time, on 15th November this year in the Melbourne Age',  Mr Croxford  was a little more candid. The article stated: 
Commonwealth Government refusal to take an interest in the urban problems of water supply, sewerage and drainage was limiting severely the States' ability to provide suitable service. . . . This was resulting in more than $1 in every $2 of revenue being used to pay debt charges on loans floated to finance public works. Speaking on financing the board's future works,  Mr Croxford  said that because the Commonwealth controlled the most lucrative forms of taxation, it should make funds available free of interest or at least highly subsidised. 
Those are the words of the  Chairman  of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. The article continued: 
A successful loan-raising programme of $50m adds about $4. 25m to revenue requirements. 
So honourable members can see from that, that a considerable amount of money that could be used for practical purposes is being paid out in interest charges. 
The local government position collectively is almost as serious as the position of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works when it comes to debt servicing and this problem is not isolated to my own city of Broadmeadows or to the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. Indeed, it is not even isolated to my own home State of Victoria. An article in the 'Australian Municipal Journal' deals with what has been said on this question by Brisbane's Lord Mayor, Alderman Jones. It states: 
Alderman Jones noted that the problem of adequate finance for local authorities had been the subject of discussions for  many  years, and there was more activity now, at national and State levels: but, 'this time the efforts of those who are concerned must be successful, since, as 1 understand it ... we have now almost reached the end of the road'. 
He was supported in this contention by the Professor of Public Administration at the University of Queensland, Professor K. W. Knight, who urged that a constitutional conference should be called to realign Australia's Federal, State and local authorities financing, and he added that the responsibilities of financing at all 3 levels were completely out of phase'. One can see that the propositions being advanced by the Australian Labor Party are supported by many people in the community. 
According to information available to me, the indebtedness of municipalities in Victoria has increased considerably during the 6th decade of the 20th century. In fact, in the whole of Victoria it has increased from a per capita debt of $32.60 during 1960-61 to $65.00 during 1968-69, an increase of 99 per cent, whilst for the metropolitan area - excluding the Melbourne City Council - a per capita debt of 5:21.5 existed in 1960-61, and this has increased in 10 years to the staggering sum of $51.00 per capita, an increase of 137 per cent. It must be pointed out that this per capita debt does not include borrowings by municipalities for private street schemes. The point I am coming to is that this indebtedness by local government authorities and semi-government authorities is used on capital works, such as the construction of buildings, the purchase of land for open space, and the provision of drainage, bridges, roads, freeways and other works of a capital nature. lt is my contention that all of these capital works are assets and are. in fact, the assets of the people of Australia. However, they are financed by perhaps the most inequitable method of public financing or revenue raising or taxation - whichever name one cares to give it. I refer, of course, to the rating system as used by councils and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. The local government Act provides for 2 methods of raising this tax. One method is lo use as a base the net annual value of the property, which takes into account improvements, and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, along with some councils, use this system. The other method is to use the unimproved capital value, which is virtually the site value, and it discounts improvements. But whichever method is used, or even if the shandy system is used - that is combining the 2 methods - there is no way in the wide world that incomes can be assessed by these taxing authorities. There is no way by which those who can afford to pay more can be charged more. Conversely, of course, no automatic relief can be given to the needy in the community. Only the Commonwealth has that sort of authority. 1 want to make one point perfectly clear so that there will be no misunderstanding. Neither I nor any of my Australian Labor Party colleagues would say that anything can be provided for nothing. All things have to be paid for, and the people pay for them. But what we do say, and we have the greatest of supporting evidence in saying it, is that the emphasis of payment is wrong. Those who can least afford to pay are continuously called upon to pay the greatest share. 
In pursuit of my contention that all capital works are national assets, and therefore assets of the people, let me give an illustration, again using municipalities and semi-government authorities as an example. Nobody of sound mind could ever say that capital works, such as roads, bridges, drainage and sewerage, are anything other than national assets. Yet in Victoria, so far as roads are concerned, municipalities are responsible for the maintenance and construction of 94.6 per cent of the total mileage of roads in that State. The Country Roads Board is responsible for 5.39 per cent of the total mileage of roads in that State. When we assess the expenditure on roads in Victoria we find that the municipalities bear the greatest burden, 73 per cent; the Country Roads Board meets 20 per cent of the burden; and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works bears 7 per cent of the burden. However, as the 7 per cent share of the burden which is borne by the Board of Works is raised from rale payers, these people bear 80 per cent of the cost of the maintenance and construction of roads in Victoria. 
But there is hidden in this information a classic example of government buck passing. The revenue of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works is raised from property owners who live within a 20-mile radius of the City of Melbourne, and these people pay 7 per cent of the total cost of road construction in the whole State. 1 repeat that nobody would ever dream thai we should say to outOItowners, such as the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  and others: 'You cannot use our freeway or bridge. You did not fully contribute towards their cost.' Likewise, no municipality erects barriers in order to prevent people from outside that municipality from using its roads. Once again I must .say that these roads and bridges are national assets, free to be used by all. Therefore, they should be financed by all, but on a capacity to pay basis, not by the archaic rating system. 
This Bill, to a limited extent, gives some relief in the debt servicing area, but thankful as everyone will no doubt be for this largess, it still does not go anywhere near far enough towards solving the enormous problems facing governments in other areas. It seems fairly clear to me that if a little imagination were shown by the Government in the financing arrangements of this country and if it showed willingness to use the fiscal measures available to it to meet the cost of providing national assets, the burden would be spread  faT  more equitably throughout the community. Surety this is the premise on which government -and the maintenance of equality in the community are based. Sadly it is a premise that has been ignored by this and preceding governments. 
I have spoken only about the great difficulties facing local government and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works in the field of debt servicing. But these bodies are not the only authorities using public money to provide assets which are national in character. Would anyone disagree with the contention that school buildings are national assets? The Victorian Teachers Union recently published a booklet titled The SI 30m Problem', lt is a guide to Melbourne's inner suburban schools. This booklet deals very thoroughly with the problem of re-building certain schools in the inner suburbs of Melbourne. lt is claimed that it will cost Si 30m to rebuild some schools - only those within  3i  miles of the Melbourne General Post Office - in only one of the cities of the Commonwealth. How much would the Ccs be to rebuild all of the schools that require reconstruction in Australia? The funds for this work must be found by the State. The Liberal Government of Victoria must share the blame for a sum as high as this being required to carry out this work. It has ignored the problem over the years, but the problem has caught up with it. But be that as it may. these school buildings, or national assets as I like to call them, urgently require reconstruction. There are 46 primary, 16 secondary and 5 technical schools involved in this consideration. Almost without exception, these buildings were erected over 70 years ago, and most of them are in fact more than a century old. They are inadequate and unsuitable and they are deteriorating. This problem must be solved. Funds must be made available by the Commonwealth out of money equitably raised and equitably disbursed. 
I have designated roads, bridges and school buildings as national assets, and no less a national asset are the 2 transport systems throughout the Commonwealth. The suburban railway network in Melbourne is a parody of public transport. The system uses aged passenger rolling stock which was probably carrying passengers even before we became a Commonwealth. Here again there is a need for a large outlay of money to bring the system up to acceptable and needed standards. The work, once again, will obviously not be financed from revenue; loan funds will be used - that is, if the Liberal Party Government in Victoria has any intention to do the work. Again the humbug will be there. Interest will have to be paid on funds used on capital works. Only the Commonwealth Government has access to the powers which permit the book entries needed to relieve the State, local and semi-government bodies of the crushing burden of interest on borrowings. Only the Commonwealth Government has the necessary authority to assess incomes and determine capacity to pay. It has the power under the Constitution to better manage the financial affairs of the Commonwealth. If it was imaginative and courageous it would use (he powers it has. Until it does the interest burden will continue- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we express our deepest concern for the millions of our fellow men suffering in refugee camps in India and we, citizens of the suburb of Fawkner in the State of Victoria, ask our Government to: 
Press for a just solution, primarily through the United Nations, so that the refugees may return to their own homes. 
Forward high initial aid to alleviate present starvation and sickness. 
Continue economic aid through development programs involving Australian capital and personnel. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of trie Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, earnestly request our Government to: ,  (1) increase, immediately, Australia's contribution, to the refugee appeal by 10 million dollars.'' 
press for a just solution to the conflict, so that the refugees may return to their homes. 
And your, petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Since the House resumed after dinner I have sat in my place listening patiently to 3 Government supporters do their darndest to justify the position adopted by the Government in relation to the Bills before the House. I listened to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  and, to be quite frank, he did not disappoint me. We heard the usual dreary, conservative, backward dissertation that we have come to expect from the honourable member for Bennelong. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  endeavoured to justify his stand. Whether he succeeded is a matter of opinion. We have just heard the young Turk from Diamond Valley put forward certain arguments with which he thought he had the Australian Labor Party by the short hair. 
I would like to say at this very early stage that what we are speaking about tonight is probably the greatest resource Australia has. That is our young people. It is not an exhaustible resource. It is not finite: it is an infinite resource. As long as people keep their fingers off the nuclear button there will be young people in Australia who will be coming forward to be educated. We are speaking about whether those young people will grow up never having had the opportunity to enjoy all the benefits of education or whether they will be brought to a stage of understanding in social development where they will be able to enjoy the fruits of those things which are about them. 
The young Turk from Diamond Valley, the honourable member for Bennelong, and others from the Government side who have spoken in this debate seem to have used this debate for purely political purposes. I am not one of those who think that this House is not a place of politics. Of course it is a place of politics. The solution of the education problem is a political solution because it will be achieved by Government decision. So far as the young people of this nation are concerned, and indeed so far as the nation itself is concerned, this issue is so important that it should not be prostituted to the level where shoddy political points are taken. 
I cannot recall - other honourable members might - exactly the figures that were quoted by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. If my memory serves me correctly he said something about New South Wales spending about 32 per cent of money made available to it by the Commonwealth at the last Premiers Conference on education. He mentioned that Victoria, that marvellous southern State, spent 35 per cent on education. I think the figure he gave for South Australia was 9 per cent and in Western Australia, he said, it was something like 7 per cent. 
The honourable member tells me either that there was none at all or he does not have the figure for Western Australia. However colleagues of mine from South Australia and Western Australia will be following me in this debate. I am neither a South Australian nor a Western Australian and I do not intend to move very far into that area, but I will with the indulgence of the House read a telegram which records some remarks that were made by the Director-General of Education in Western Australia. It reads: 
State Government giving its education policy priority over almost everything in its thinking. Education had been put in a privileged position. The $83m alocated in the last State Budget- 
This is Western Australia of which I am speaking - the increase of $1.2m in loan funds and the proposed free text books scheme- 
I trust that the young Turk from Diamond Valley is listening carefully - for primary school children were big steps forward in education. The recent Budget has given me enormous satisfaction. The concessions given to education will allow a lot to be done to improve the State education system. This has come at a time when finances are being tightened and economy measures are affecting nearly all government departments. The fact that the Government was straining its resources to make the concessions indicated its feelings about education. The Education Department had 2 main aims, lt was striving to overcome the backlog- 
There is the crunch - in education and  to  replace outmoded buildings. So great was the development in Western Australia that the Department had  to  move fast  to  stay in one place. 
That is how quickly it is developing. The telegram continues: 
But the way the Government treated education in the last Budget made this task much easier. 
All of those remarks were made by the Western Australian Director-General of Education on Saturday, 2nd October 1971. That man is not a politician, as are we. He is not popularly elected, as are we in the Labor Party. Rather is he a public servant. Yet he makes quite clear the problems in Western Australia. I dare say that they are the same elsewhere, and when  Mr Holding  becomes the Premier in Victoria in 1973 he will face the same problem of catching up the backlog, the legacy that has been left by inept, incompetent Liberal Party governments. 
A document recently prepared by the Teachers Union in Victoria stated, and it has not been refuted, that in Victoria $130m is required to correct the very bad situation that exists in the inner suburban schools in Melbourne. It does not mention the rest of the State. That is the sort of legacy that a Labor Government in Victoria will inherit. This is the problem that confronts the Labor Party, as it will confront us in this place at the end of the year when wc take office. 
I have 26,000 people in my electorate who are already convinced; I think they are convinced enough. This is a cognate debate on 2 Bills. One deals with a grant of $6.66m to the States as part of the honouring of a promise given by a former Prime Minister, or was it this one? I lose track; they change so rapidly. I understand that if  Sir Frank  Packer has his way there will be another change before the end of this year. The $6.66m is one-third of the $20m offered by one of the Liberal Party Prime Ministers. The other Bill increases the per capita grants to primary and secondary schools in the so-called independent schools area. I see this as being entirely not compatible. I am sure that the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  in the preparation of the fine speech that he made, did not have rime to read the amendment that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  put before this House. 
That is probably true. The amendment seeks to add the following words to motion for the second reading of the Bill. the House, while not refusing a second reading to the BUI, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and nongovernment primary, secondary, and technical schools, and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities. 
From the way that the honourable member for Diamond Valley was speaking he seemed to draw 3 conclusions. That is understandable because, as I understand it, before he came to this House he was a lawyer. As such he obviously has had a university education. I should think that most of the cost of that education was met by the taxpayers of Australia. 
No. I was not in such a privileged position. I was not going to say this, but those who have listened to the debate tonight could be forgiven for thinking that their contribution towards the cost of educating the honourable member for Diamond Valley was somewhat wasted and could have been put to a better use. If the honourable member, being a member of a very learned profession, is unable to make compatible 3 statements that are, in fact, the same, far be it from me, who was very fortunate to be able to gain his merit certificate, to try to give a lesson to one so learned and knowledgeable. 
Tonight we are discussing the education of the young people of Australia. It has been alleged that the Labor Party is trying to drive a wedge into the community. I do not know whether it is the Labor Party which plays unionists off against nonunionists, church schools off against nonchurch schools or private schools off against public schools or State schools, but it seems to me that this is mainly a device used by the Liberal Party and those members of it who sit in this House. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  gave a fine dissertation on the history of education. It seems to me that there was never a choice for people in the early times as to what sort of education they would receive because then only those who were in a privileged position were able to enjoy education. Until we reached the stage of having a state education system there was a large section of the community whose needs in this respect were ignored. The question of privilege can be supported only if it is backed up with an education so if there are people who, without the benefits of an education, remain ignorant there is a division in the community with one section of the community standing in a position of privilege because it has enjoyed the benefits of an education. 
With the advent or this terrible socialist practice of asking all people to contribute to provide an education system so that all people can be educated by it, we found that there were among those people who in normal circumstances would have remained ignorant some receiving some sort of education. They were raising themselves to a position where they were liable to challenge the privileged position of those who traditionally had enjoyed education. That was thought not to be too good, but it could not be destroyed so the privileged set about it in another way - a very cunning way. They made the State education system so bad that now it is churning out almost ignorant people with a smattering of education. 
But the division goes even deeper than this. What do we mean by education? Do we mean that people are taught to read and write, to add columns of figures or to manipulate formulae so that they can make them add up to something? Education goes far deeper than that. I believe that in the years ahead our society will be confronted with a situation which will be resolved only by the proper education of the people. I speak now of things like automation which will result in increased leisure time for most of our people. They will need to have an understanding of how to use that leisure time. 
Let us consider the Government's attitude towards the 2 Bills we are debating. Government supporters have said a lot about the legislation tonight. I would point out. for the benefit of the House, that when these 2 Bills were introduced, it took the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  about 14 minutes to introduce his Bill and the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was so enraptured with his contribution that it took him 6 minutes to introduce his Bill. Neither of them explained very well what the whole thing was all about. In introducing his Bill, the Treasurer indicated that out of the $6.66m provided, my own State of Victoria will receive the princely sum of $1.7m. As. I have already explained, this is to be used to try to correct a problem which it has been conservatively estimated will cost $130m. That sum of money is needed to rebuild and bring to an acceptable standard the schools in the inner suburbs of Melbourne. The Treasurer was ecstatic about the Governments generosity. He gave the impression that the States were tickled  pink.  He said: 
The  Government  believes that the grants authorised by this Bill represents  a  significant contribution by the  Commonwealth  in the field of  education.  They have been welcomed as such by the States. 
He was referring to the $6.66m. I should like to have been a fly on the wall listening to  Sir Henry  Bolte as he travelled south to his bastion at the top of Bourke Street. I do not think he would have been tickled pink with it. The attitude of the Government, ils Ministers and those who hope to become Ministers is well known. Whether consciously or subconsciously the same expressions and attitudes continue to be stated. 
This evening 1 listened to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  In listening to that honourable gentleman one could be forgiven of closing one's eyes and imagining oneself back in the 18th century. With the expressions he used one could almost draw an analogy between that and 1984 and such slogans as 'Truth is lies' and 'War is peace' because the honourable gentleman has a peculiar faculty for taking matters of fact and presenting them in such a way that they are unrecognisable. To this honourable gentleman socialism is apparently anathema. He speaks about it on almost every occasion in most derogatory terms. He is, however, quite prepared for a society to share the cost of educating the scions of the privileged class. In other words, he wants to socialise the cost of education. 
As I understand the situation in South Australia and Western Australia, contrary to the impression that the honourable member for Diamond Valley would have liked to have given, education is being developed at a far greater rate than it is in those States that have not yet been sufficiently enlightened to elect a Labor government. Whilst large sums of money are spoken about - mention was made of $38,000 being provided for one private secondary school - there has been no discussion of a most significant facet of education, namely, preschool education. The Government seems able to make large sums available to private schools but it is not prepared to spend similar sums to ensure that the younger children, particularly the children of the underprivileged section of the community, are given any education until they are old enough to attend the generally accepted State schools. In my electorate there are approximately 65 schools with a population of about 40,000 children. There would be as many children of pre-school age. This confronts the people of my electorate, who are not altogether affluent, with a serious problem. The schools are not provided with the facilities that they need because the parents are not in a financial position to provide them so the teachers elect to teach at schools that are better equipped. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
We have agreed to take the Bill as a whole, so we are now in a position to debate the clauses of the Bill. The wording of the clauses of this Bill is not very precise at all. I think that the wording is imprecise for a very practical reason. Clause. 3 contains the definition of an industrial situation'. It is a rather unique definition. As far as I know, it does not exist in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, nor does it exist in any other Act which deals with employees and employers. It seems to be something unique. Yet the Minister, in his second reading speech, dismissed this definition in a rather cavalier fashion by saying that it referred to strikes, bans and limitations. My main reason for rising at this stage is to point out that in the existing wording and the amendments which are to be made to the Public Service Arbitration Act there is no provision for continuity of employment. There is no provision to protect an employee. He. is liable to lose certain rights if, for any length of time at all, he is stood down. As the Minister has indicated, the purpose of the Bill is to enable people to be stood down.  His  expression was: No work, no pay. After being in a job for the length of time required to receive such benefits as long service leave and a number of other benefits which could accrue to him, an employee could be stood down as a result of the capricious act of an overseer or some other person in charge. If a person is ordered to perform a task in a way which is not the way he normally does it and he disputes that instruction, under the terms of this Bill he can be arbitrarily stood down. As I have said, this Bill provides no guarantee of continuity of employment. The employee can be disadvantaged in that he can lose any benefits which may have accrued. 
On more than one occasion the Minister has said that the Bill is patterned on sections 28 and 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He drew attention to the fact that the offending clause  -  12E(5.) - deals with a conference being held in private. The Minister dragged that clause out of section 29(6.) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is almost exactly the same. If the Minister wants to liken this Bill to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act he should not take these small pieces of the Bill and say that they are the same as parts of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Clause 12E(3.) states: 
A direction under sub-section (1.) of this section 
That is a direction by an arbitrator - may be given to any person- 
I emphasise the words 'any person' - whose presence at the conference the Arbitrator or Deputy Arbitrator thinks is likely to conduce to putting an end to, or preventing the occurrence of, the industrial situation. 
That is much broader than the provision contained in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which permits the commissioner to summon before him only those who are directly involved in the dispute. The Minister cannot take parts of this Bill and compare them with parts of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and say to the House that there is nothing wrong with this Bill and that the situation is no different from that which applies to employees in other industries working under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Minister cannot expect honourable members to accept that sort of situation. It is just not good enough. There are very real differences which the Opposition not only endeavoured to highlight but I believe did successfully highlight during the second reading debate. A number of other aspects of the wording of this Bill require mention, as I said during my speech at the second reading stage. It is particularly slipshod in its drafting. I want to make it quite clear that I am not in any way critical of the Parliamentary Draftsmen as I believe them to be of the highest standard. If they are of a high standard, as I believe that they are, there is another reason for the sloppy drafting of this Bill. The only thought that comes to my mind is that there is something sinister about the intent of the Bill. The Minister for Labour and National Service might smile at that and he might think that rather extravagant language, but I can assure him that it will be echoed by a very large number of people in this country - by those people who are members of unions and particularly by members of Public Service unions. As my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said, that runs into a lot of people. I suppose that some of them are even in the Minister's own electorate. 
The Opposition must oppose this measure. Its wording is bad and I believe it is bad for a purpose. As I have just pointed out to the Minister, there is a most important omission. It makes no provision for continuity to protect those public servants who under the terms of this Bill, should it become law, will be at the whim of capricious employers or supervisors, if I may use that expression. These employees stand in a fairly invidious position. They stand in a much worse position than any other employee in this country. The Bill makes provision for a fine of $1,000 but that is a one way deal. There are monetary penalties under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in sections 109 and 111 but they apply both ways. The Act stipulates that they shall apply to an employer as well as an employee. However, in this case that cannot be done. Although I am not a constitutional lawyer I know that the Crown cannot prosecute the Crown. What will the Government do about this situation? It has made provision for a $1,000 fine which applies only to employees. It does not apply to the Minister; he cannot be fined, nor can any other Minister or departmental head. It places the Commonwealth public servant in a much worse position than his brother in outside industry. Therefore, this Bill needs condemning. It should be taken out, torn up and forgotten about. 
-The last 12 minutes of the 20 minutes that were available to the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  were taken up by that honourable gentleman telling us why he did not know anything about industrial relations. If the honourable gentleman and, indeed, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  were concerned about the matter of industrial relations which they have raised before the House, surely they would not have adopted the archaic 19th century approach which was adopted by the Assistant Minister. They would not be speaking in such strong terms, as did he, about the master-servant relationship and that when a man was told to drive a tractor and that man decided that fencing had priority over tractor driving, then that man was obviously wrong. This is the attitude of the Government and its supporters, especially of the Assistant Minister, the honourable member for Corangamite, and of the Minister for Labour and National Service. They believe that only employers are correct when it comes to industrial relations. 
The honourable member for Corangamite contradicted himself on at least 3 occasions. He said that disharmony exists. He said also that the unionists involved had refused to take advantage of the facilities that exist for conciliation and arbitration. Later on, he said that no facilities exist to take these matters to conciliation and, ultimately, to arbitration. Frankly, that is what I believe that the Minister for Labour and National Service was saying when he made his second reading speech. The Minister approached this matter by saying that no facilities exist to get these matters to the conference table. That is where I and my colleagues on this side of the House believe it should be - at the conference table. 
Let us consider the frustration which surrounds industrial relations in this country with this type of government which, in this case, is the employer. There is frustration and delay. All of these matters are delayed. Why? Because there is no retrospectivity permissible under the Act. 
So there is a vested interest on the part of the Commonwealth to delay these matters. As long as employees' claims are delayed, when the decision is finally made, as it ultimately is, in favour of the employees this Government has saved itself a few lousy shillings on the deal; but industrial relations have been inflamed and aggravated in the intervening period. If the 
Minister is sincere about settling industrial disputes harmoniously, the way to do it is not by adopting the attitude of the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service and saying that only the employer is correct when it comes to industrial relations. I do not think that the Assistant Minister knows anything about industrial relations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member must not reflect on any member of the House. 
Am I not allowed to express an opinion as to his attitude towards this matter? I will repeat the statement: The Assistant Minister knows nothing about industrial relations. Furthermore, in my opinion, the Minister does not know very much about them  nor  is he very concerned with learning about them. He has adopted an attitude which he has been told to adopt, and he will pursue it. That has been done for a reason. 
He has no background at all. If those gentlemen had a background in industry they would know that most of the problems in industry are solved by the men on the floor of the factory and not by the managers who sit in offices. The Assistant Minister spoke about the poor productivity of this country. If he cares to read up on this subject and if he reads the same documents as I have read he will find that the lack of productivity in this country is not due to the working people; it is due to very poor management. Management in Australia compares very poorly with that in other countries. I go back to the point made by my colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  This Bill was introduced without consultation with the unions that are concerned and affected by it. In it we have a breach of an undertaking by the Minister The second reading speech commenced with a distorted misrepresentation of the purposes of the Bill. The Minister said in his second reading speech: 
The purpose of the Bill is to make provision in a similar manner to the provision in section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act - for the public service arbitration tribunal to deal with what are termed 'industrial situations'. 
Then be gets down to the common language that we all use - 
In short, these are strikes, bans or limitations on work engaged in by officers or employees of Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities. 
If that is what he meant, why did he not use that terminology in the Bill? He must mean something a bit broader than that. The purpose of the Bill goes well beyond giving the Arbitrator and Federal Ministers power similar in scope to section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Under section 28  the  Commission must ascertain the parties to the dispute, and thereafter it deals with them. The Federal Government, through a Minister, may intervene as of right only where the matter is to be dealt with in presidential session. On the contrary, the Bill before the House gives the Arbitrator power to deal with unions not party to  the  dispute, and the Government in a political capacity, through a Minister, can buy into a dispute by which public servants are affected. Industral situations, contrary to what the Minister says, are not under the Bill limited to bans or limitations on work engaged in by officers or employees of Commonwealth departments. The Minister stated that the purpose of the Bill is to provide for the public service arbitration tribunal to deal with what are termed industrial situations. He said: 
In short, these arc strikes, bans or limitations on work engaged in by officers or employees of Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities. 
The definition of 'industrial situation' in the Bill is as follows: 
Industrial situation' means - 
the refusal or failure to perform work, including (without limiting the generality of the preceding words of this paragraph) the refusal or failure to perform work in a particular manner, at a particular place or at a particular time or while particular circumstances exist; 
How much broader than that could we get? The definition continues: 
the unauthorized interruption, delaying or obstruction of, or any unauthorized limitation on, the performance of work; 
the performance work in an unauthorized manner or at an unauthorized time, being a manner or time so different from the usual manner or lime  let mc pause there. 1 would remind the House, and surely I do not have to remind the Minister if he has had experience in industry - 1 do not think he has-  r 
The Minister assures me that be has had experience in industry, but 1 do not think that he has ever worked on the floor of a factory. If he had, he would know that the people on the floor of the factory do solve production problems. That being the case, they shortcut the work and they are very efficient. Men of the Minister's standing lay down that they should work to regulations. We all know what happens to the railways when they work to regulations - they do noi run. We all know what happens to the airlines - they do not fly. We all know what happens to the shipping companies - their ships do not get out of port if they are going to obey the regulations. Therefore there could be an aggravated industrial situation through - to use an expression that is very common in industry - some pannikin boss deciding that he will inflame the whole situation by saying: 'You usually do the thing this way, but on this day you will walk from here to there to there rather than walk from there to there.' So the thing leaves itself open to abuse. Let me return to reading the definition of an industrial situation. lt continues: 
the performance of work in an unauthorized manner or at an unauthorized time, being a manner or time so different from the usual manner or time of the performance of that work that there would be a limitation or restriction on, or a tendency to limit or restrict, the amount or volume of work performed or the output or production of work; or 
the unauthorized adoption of such a practice in relation to work that there would be a limitation or restriction on, or a tendency to limit or restrict, the amount or volume of work performed or the output or production of work; 
There is no definition of 'work* in the Bill or in the Act. There is therefore no basis for the implication in the Minister's speech that only strikes and bans in areas of Commonwealth work can constitute an industrial situation. A power strike, transport stoppage or waterfront dispute could consititute an industrial situation within the present definition of that expression. There is nothing in the remainder of the Bill that necessarily restricts the legislation to work bans imposed by Commonwealth employees. 
Public servants cannot help but be puzzled why it was necessary for the Minister to introduce the Bill in a way which broke faith with his undertaking to discuss amendments to the Act with the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. The Minister explained that his promise to have discussions about the Act did not include discussions on the subject of this Bill. As I have been led to believe, that quibbling with what a written promise means is not going to build up much confidence in the value and the reliability of what the Minister promises. Public servants should be aware of how lightly  Mr Lynch  regards any undertakings given to staff associations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The Minister must be referred to by his correct title, not by his personal name. I ask the honourable member not to refer to the Minister as  Mr Lynch.  He is the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
I believed that I had referred to him as the Minister, but if I did not I apologise. 
Public servants, like the community, should also be puzzled as to why the Minister for Labour and Conscription - National Service - should misrepresent to the Parliament and to the nation the full extent of the powers which this Bill confers upon Federal Ministers and the Public Service Arbitrator to intermeddle in any dispute which may incidentally affect public servants. Why is the Minister for Labour and National Service not straightforward and frank about the extent of these powers? Does he not realise the ambit of them? Is he misrepresenting them? Perhaps he does not entirely understand them. Or he may be following orders to provide a foundation for claims that the Prime Minister of this country  (Mr McMahon)  is decisive. The greatest cause for concern for the Parliament, the community and public servants is the downright slipshoddiness in the drafting and conception of this Bill. That is something that we can probably deal with better in the Committee stage of the Bill. 
Let us move on to some of the clauses of the Bill. Proposed new section 12e empowers the Arbitrator to make orders binding on organisations or sections of membership covered by the organisation. Primarily this power is intended to enable orders to be made for banning continuance of work limitations or requiring stand down of employees. The words in the Bill are 'for reasons beyond the control of the employer where employees cannot be gainfully employed'. However, most such awards cover employees whose contract of employment is on a day to day and weekly hiring basis. In principle, even for such employees, we find the stand-down clause objectionable. But even on the basis of established precedent the legislated introduction of contingent stand-down clauses into every area of Commonwealth service employment is an extremely high-handed and ill-considered step. 
No attention appears to have been paid to features of Commonwealth service employment, and it is different. Over half of the Commonwealth service are persons engaged on a permanent basis under whose legislative contract there are a number of special features. Firstly, permanent officers may be dismissed or suspended only subject to the observance of procedures which have been worked out over time. These procedures, devised to give security to and prevent political victimisation of public servants, have now been disregarded by the introduction of a stand-down clause whereby public servants with a contract of employment for a term of years can be stood down, without pay - the Minister used the expression 'no work no pay' and I suppose that is a bit of a vote winner - for a cause which may be beyond their control. Their opportunity of testing the basis upon which it is contended that they cannot be gainfully employed will be hamstrung by secrecy and the difficulty of getting access to the reasoning of whoever it is who made the decision. No regard to these considerations is evident in the Minister's second reading speech. 
Secondly, public servants are constrained by a section of the Public Service Act from seeking outside employment. Are they to be stood down and at the same time legislatively prohibited from seeking work elsewhere? The Minister's second reading speech pays no regard to that consideration. Thirdly, a great deal is often asked of public servants. They may be posted to any locality; they may be required to work extra hours to meet the exigencies of the public need; they are, at certain levels, not entitled to payment for overtime, or if entitled they must receive payment at less than their ordinary rate of pay. They are muzzled by the Public Service Regulations from commenting publicly upon the administration of their departments or service conditions. They commit a crime if they reveal even the most unimportant bit of information which may come to them in the course of their duties. They are expected at all costs to keep the system running, to keep faith with the public need and to put the service of the community above their personal interests. 
Yet notwithstanding those duties of the public servant we have the Minister introducing without the courtesy of consultation a completely unregulated, undefined power to kick public servants off the payroll as soon as somebody - even somebody with a political motive - considers it may serve some industrial dispute - settling purpose to do so. There is not even the protection of the precise terms of the ordinary standdown clause in this legislation. It is left entirely open or, to use the Minister's term, 'flexible' and entirely at the mercy of political manipulation by any Minister who quite feasibly might see as politically advantageous the aggravation of effects of an industrial dispute by standing down the maximum number of public servants. That sort of power for a Minister to intermeddle in Commonwealth service administration, for political reasons, should not be placed by the Parliament in the hands of Ministers. 
A further point of a technical nature is the failure to specify adequately the necessity for a mode of service of a direction under new section  12e  to attend a compulsory conference. The Arbitrator may by sub-section  2  issue a direction orally, in writing or by telegram, but there is no apparent requirement in the sub-section for the direction to be served on the party to whom it  h  directed. There could be a Gilbert and Sullivan situation when the postal workers are on strike and it is decided to send a telegram to the secretary of the Australian Postal Workers Union to come into conference but because of the strike the telegram is not delivered. Leaving aside the difficulty of issuing a direc tion by telegram when the telegraphists are on strike, a comparison should be made with the more carefully drafted section  14(2.)  of the existing Act. A witness if summoned must by necessary inference have been served with the summons; he must also have had attendance money tendered. There are no such technical but necessary refinements in the Minister's slapdash new power vested in the Arbitrator to direct attendance of people who need not even be connected with the Public Service. All of these points have been left to be sorted out by the courts or by the Arbitrator. 
Section  29  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is in virtually identical terms and appears to have caused few problems, but that section is part of a system quite different in scope and nature from the quite different procedure introduced by this legislation. The Bill has taken, apparently without thought, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provisions and injected them ino the Public Service Arbitration Act system. It is that lack of consideration which is the main fault of the Bill. A very important aspect of the whole Bill - I think this should be said now; it is bound to be said later - is that all of the hearings that are to be conducted by the Arbitrator, assuming people can be brought to the table after all the difficulties I have mentioned, are to be in private. It will not be like the way that the Arbitration Court and the Conciliation Commission operate under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, where there can be no danger of a Star Chamber trial. 
Secrecy is the key word, so that any sort of a situation can be expressed within the confines of a room. Nobody can be questioned. The Press are not present and the ever vigilant guardians of our liberty - the public - are excluded from any hearings in these situations. This does not exist in Little Bourke Street in the arbitration building in Melbourne and it should not exist Why should the public servant be placed in a different position from any other worker? He is disadvantaged by this legislation. I agree with the attitude expressed by my colleague the honourable member for Stirling and this legislation must be thrown out. 

 Mr 
 DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation upon notice: 
Is the area of land known as Essendon Airport owned by the people of Australia. 
What are the plans for its future use. 
Will the Minister ensure that no change of usage will occur before members of Parliament, as representatives of the people, have the opportunity to discuss the proposed change. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister initiate discussion with the Government of Victoria and its Statutory Authorities and Municipalities adjacent to Tullamarine Airport with a view to formulating policy and seeking co-operation in respect of the usage of land surrounding the airport and land affected by noise exposure forecasts. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Can he say whether all employment districts have participated in the extensive telephone campaign through which his Department has been encouraging employers to register job vacancies? Is he satisfied that vacancies registered in this way are of the same value as vacancies registered spontaneously? Can he say to what extent they have slowed down the further alarming decline in vacancies evident in the figures for March? Is he conducting a similar special effort to boost registration of persons seeking jobs or entitled to unemployment benefits? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned employees of Ansett Airlines of Australia respectfully shows our complete unqualified support for  Sir Reginald  Ansett and the Board of Directors of Ansett Transport Industries. 
We do here express our most vehement opposition to any attempt to wrest control of the company Ansett Transport Industries from the present Board of Directors to that of Thomas Nationwide Transport 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the Federal Government and its leaders will institute all such measures as may be deemed necessary to prevent any takeover of this company until such time as the Federal Government is satisfied that the national interest of the Australian people is best served by such a takeover. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth Secondary Scholarships were available to eligible students in Victoria in 1970 and 1971. 
What was the ratio of scholarships to eligible students in Victoria in those years. 
How many scholarships were issued in Victoria to students in (a) private and (b) State Schools in the same years. 
What was the ratio of scholarships to eligible students in Victoria in (a) private and (b) State schools in the same years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for  Civil  Aviation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister ensure that no aircraft will be permitted to travel at supersonic speeds over Australian territories. 
Will the Minister also ensure that the reported flight over Australia by the Concorde supersonic jet will be made at less than supersonic speed. 
Have corridors been arranged across Australia for supersonic flights. 
Will the Minister heed Ohe lead given by Great Britain and other countries and ban flights at supersonic speeds across Australia. 
I enter this debate simply because I am not sure what exactly the honourable member for Mortein was saying. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! 'The honourable member for Moreton' is the correct expression. 
I am sorry. I am not sure whether the honourable gentleman was agreeing with the comments of my colleague, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I think we should be talking about the resolution of industrial disputes because surely this is what the legislation is all about. I must say quite clearly that I do not agree that legislation can resolve disputes. However, this Government has decided that that is the way it will be done. As part of its formula for resolving disputes its seems to think that there is some mistique about men who come to the Bar, those who the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said wear the silk. That in itself is an expression of some mystique. J, am very much afraid that I am not persuaded by the argument that lawyers are a race apart. My colleague the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  sits in front of me and there are other members of the legal profession in my Party, but I am not persuaded that they carry with them any special significance. I am not convinced that because of their training and all the rest of it they are placed in a particular position to be able to consider all the problems that confront working people and the employers of working people and to be able to solve their disputes. Probably the only man who was able to do this with any sort of equanimity at all died some thousands of years ago and his name was Solomon. I am reminded that he came to judgment too. As a matter of fact today is Ascension Thursday. 
He was one of those people who made laws. The clause about which we are speaking says: 
A person shall not be appointed as a Deputy President unless he is a person who - 
And here I think should be added the words who has experience in industrial relations' because that to my mind is very important. The clause continues: 
is or has been a barrister or solicitor of the High Court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth of not less than 5 years standing; 
has had experience at a high level in industry, commerce, industrial relations or the service of a government or an authority of a government; 
Where is the relationship between appointment to the Commission and service with a government or an authority of a government? What gives such a person a special right to determine the very real problems that exist between working people and their employers? Nor do I believe that there is any way in which the law can equip a man to sit down and consider a dispute. The person who has to act as a conciliator must have experience. Earlier today I denied that the position of conciliator can exist. Under this present legislation it is not possible for the position of conciliator to exist because there can be no conciliation under this Bill. It is in fact an arbitration Bill under which working people will do what they are told to do. All that this clause does is ensure that the people who set themselves apart from the rest of the community because of their training do not necessarily have to have had experience in the settlement of disputes. Sometimes I am persuaded that because of a vested interest lawyers start disputes rather than settle them. We could well have a situation where disputes are prolonged because of the inexperience of the so-called conciliator who, according to this Bill, must be a barrister or a solicitor, or a number of other things. Nowhere does the Bill say that he must necessarily have had training in industrial relations. I think that is important. 
A lot more good would be done for the community if we were to take a man from the floor of the factory, if that were necessary, because of his experience in solving disputes at that level and give him authority to sit in judgment on these matters rather than select a man simply because he is a lawyer. There is no mystique about lawyers; they do not stand apart from the rest of the community. What we are talking about is the settling of industrial disputes and I do not think that lawyers can do that any better than anybody else. It is about time that legislation was drafted to provide for the apopintment of people who have had experience in these fields. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  thank you. It is nice to see a little bit of justice operating in this place occasionally. In the limited time that I have been here, of all the disgraceful performances that I have seen I think that the performance which the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who is sitting at the table, has just given tops the lot. Obviously the Minister must feel some sense of guilt about the writing of this clause into this legislation; otherwise he would not have carried on in the way in which he did. He has a guilty conscience about it. He did raise the fact- 
He is probably looking for it. I do not know whether he has quite the necessary qualifications. 
If he is following the example of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  he certainly has not. The Minister argued that, prior to December, a Bill was before this chamber, was agreed to here and then was rejected by the Senate. It dealt with the salaries of statutory officers. I make it clear that no-one from the Labor Party side of this chamber is talking about a wage freeze, to use the Minister's own emotional term. We are talking about wage justice. The proposed $4,400 a year increase in the salary of conciliation commissioners cannot be regarded in anybody's book as wage justice when the same commissioners recently granted an increase of only $104 a year to the tradesmen of this country. 
Yes. I intend to talk about the back-door method of gaining wage increases for these gentlemen. It is not necessary to amend sections16 to 21 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. They could remain as they are. However, it is proposed to repeal them and to insert new sections in their stead, although the Senate - a vital part of this Parliament - late last year rejected part of the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill which contained similar proposals. 
The Minister mentioned wage relativity. This is a very fine phrase. I do not know from whom he learned it, but somebody taught it to him. However, if he is going to talk about wage relativity, he should realise that when someone's salary is increased the relativities he had with everybody else are destroyed. Conciliation commissioners are not the only statutory officers in Australia. The Minister proposes to increase their salary by $4,400 a year, but where will that put the other statutory officers? It will immediately destroy the existing relativity. So, once again the very thing about which we are speaking - inequality - will be brought right into play. In no way did the Minister justify the salary increase for these people. He quoted from an editorial in the journal of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, but he did not quote that very well. He does not do anything very well. He did not quote it verbatim, because that editorial was criticising the Government and everybody knows that there is plenty of reason for criticism. The ACOA, which is an organisation solely of persons employed by the Government, on more than one occasion has been most critical of the Government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -  (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member can make his speech without any assistance. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I appreciate your protection. I need it. If the Minister had given us some reasons, it would have been appreciated. Mark it, he is the only member from the Government side who has risen and tried to justify this provision. AH he did was to get into an emotional furore and behave very foolishly in this national forum when dealing with something which is very important. He gave no reasons at all. There was nothing in his speech that I can use as a basis on which to reply to him. 
You worry about the excise on wine, brother, and do not worry about fixing the salary of conciliation commissioners. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member shall address his remarks to the Chair. 
I repeat,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that the honourable member should worry about the excise on wine and not worry about the salary of conciliation commissioners. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Angas will cease interjecting. 
The ignorance of Government supporters was probably illustrated by the honourable member for Griffiths  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who, when not sitting in his seat but trying out the Opposition benches for after the next elections, indicated that he was unaware that the Prime Minister receives  $42  a day while sitting in his home at Rose Bay, or wherever it is. The honourable member for Griffith, who is a supporter of the Government and who should know these things, did not know that. Three members of the Opposition have questioned this provision and gone through it chapter and verse. Only the Minister has spoken on- the Government side. As I said before, he rose in a highly emotional state and told us nothing worth while. The honourable gentlemen sitting in cockies corner and others asleep on their benches did not put forward any argument to substantiate this increase in salary for the conciliation commissioners. The Minister then accuses us of adopting a wages freeze policy. Nothing could be further from the truth. Why does not the Minister in his most honoured role as the Minister for Labour and National Service do something about wage justice? He is part of the Cabinet. Why does he not speak to his colleagues to prevent the Government from going to the, Arbitration Commission and encouraging,; persuading and bribing the Commission to- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! I ask the honourable member to withdraw it. 
j; am sorry, I used the wrong word. I meant to say pressurise. I withdraw that remark, I meant to say that it was pressurising . the court to bring down an increase of  $2  a -week for working people of this country. The same court said in that case that  $54  a week is sufficient for a man, his wife. and children to live comfortably. It brings in this sort of business and expects us to swallow it. It is going too far. It is completely out of. hand. I for one cannot support this, I feel that this provision should be removed completely from the legislation. In other words, the provision that is in the parent Act should be in this Bill. 
 To my mind this debate has degenerated because, from the Government side, we have been faced with a completely demoralised political Party - a government that knows that the time is drawing nigh when it will no longer hold office. I do not divorce the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  from this statement. 
The matter before the House is of great importance. It affects a large section of the community. The comments of Government speakers have led us to believe, and have endeavoured to lead the community to believe, that this matter is of importance to the whole community. About 4.5 million people make up the worker section of the Australian community - those who make things and provide goods and services. If the families of these people are taken into account it can be seen that a major section of the community is involved. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who should be sitting at the table but is not there - he seems to be absent from the House at the moment- 
If the Minister is not absent from the House he is certainly absent from that part of the chamber where honourable members are effective. As I understand the situation, a member standing or sitting where the honourable the Minister now is sitting is not recognised by the Chair. So the Minister is not in the House. The Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is alleged to deal with industrial matters. It is alleged to endeavour in some way or another to solve the problems that the members on the Government side claim confront the community. We have heard Government supporter after Government supporter speak about the difficulties that are brought into the community by trade union members taking all sorts of actions. 
The title of this Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, seems to me to be somewhat of a paradox. I have checked with the Oxford English Dictionary and have found that 'conciliation' and 'conciliator', are words that mean that all endeavours should be made to bring parties to a dispute together to achieve some sort of satisfactory situation. I also have looked up the words 'arbitration' and 'arbiter'. The Oxford Dictionary defines 'arbiter' as somebody who is all-powerful. Therefore, it seems paradoxical to have a Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The legislation provides for a conciliatory situation where members of a trade union sit down with somebody who allegedly is independent to resolve a dispute. The parties know very well that at the back of their heads is a loaded gun and that if they do not resolve the matter in this way they will have to go to arbitration and be told what to do and how to do it. I do not think that that is the way to resolve industrial problems in Australia. 
If this Bill and the principal Act are to be regarded as a medium for resolving industrial situations and problems that arise, they fail badly. There is no way in the world by which this proposed legislation, which is bad, and the principal legislation which it seeks to amend and which also is bad, will be able to solve industrial difficulties that might confront the community from time to time. The reason is clear. Decisions that are made as a result of this legislation will do nothing to bring parties together to solve problems. The community seems to be divided into 2 fairly clear areas. There are those in the community who make and provide the goods and services - the comforts for all of us - and also a very small section of the community which enjoys those comforts without doing anything to make or provide them. 
Members on the Government side frequently come into this House acting as the marionettes of Australian employers. They bring down legislation to take to one side that very large section of the community that makes and provides the goods and services and put it in a different position to the very small portion of the community which enjoys the comforts that are provided by the majority. 
This Bill sets out, ostensibly, in the Minister's own words, 'to resolve industrial difficulties that exist'. It does not do that. Rather it would militate against a resolution of these problems. I believe that it would aggravate situations that exist. The big problem is that the people who prepare this sort of legislation have had very little, if any, actual participation at this sort of level. 1 know that the Minister for Labour and National Service was for a long time engaged in a private capacity before and after he entered this Parliament in the area of finding work for people. I think it generally goes under the heading of 'Job Placement'. I understand that in a private capacity the Minister has been very good at this sort of thing. I understand further from a question I asked earlier in this session that his Department has had very little success in finding work for people. The Minister has had a great deal of success in obtaining job opportunities but he has had very little success in placing people in those jobs. I am speaking now about his official functions as the Minister in charge of this portfolio of Labour and National Service. 
We have heard the comments by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  who I understand at some earlier stage preceded the Minister for Labour and National Service as the Minister in charge of this portfolio but who now occupies the most honourable position of Prime Minister. I recall that when he was Minister for Labour and National Service - I do not think my memory is all that bad - he did not really get down to the nub of this question. It seems lo me that his opinions at that time were no more popular than they are now amongst the Australian community. This matter will continue to be a problem so long as we have conservative governments and conservative Ministers who are all too anxious to say that men must be driven to make them work. 
I do not know whether the Minister for Labour and National Service or those who sit on the benches behind him - they are not in the House now but generally they are present - would be prepared to come forward and support a proposition whereby a manufacturer or seller of goods or services was forced into the position of providing the goods that he manufactured or the services that the provided, even if it were not profitable for him to do so. In other wodds, if an employer or the maker or seller were to say that it was no longer a profitable proposition for him to manufacture a commodity or to provide a service, I am not sure that the Government of this country would come down with all its might and say to that person: 'You must provide this service, you must manufacture that commodity'. I do not think it would do that, but it is prepared to come out when the working people of this country are dissatisfied with what they are receiving as a reward for the sale of their services and say to them: 'If you are not prepared to go to work we will make you go to work or we will make you provide this service; we will make you make these things'. This is the double standard that applies. 
Recently we saw the fiasco which took place in this House and also in Victoria. I refer to the proposed takeover by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd of another industry known as Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. This was really a Gilbert and Sullivan opera-type situation. But I do  not  recall this Government's supporters standing up and saying that certain rules would prevail, that certain circumstances would exist or that people would conduct themselves in a certain way. However, I do recall  Sir Henry  Bolte, the omnipotent Premier of Victoria, doing something about it. I am not convinced that what he did was correct, but he did do something. This Government, through its spokesman on industrial matters, the Minister for Labour and National Service, is quite prepared to bring down rules and regulations in order to negate the obvious and honourable rights of working people, but it is not prepared to take a stand so far as other amalgamations are concerned. 
This brings me to the question of amalgamations which are referred to in this Bill. This is an important and a very crucial part of the Bill. The Minister, ignoring his advisers but being pressured by his own Cabinet, by  Mr Polites  and all sorts of other employer representatives whom I have seen skulking around the corridors of this Parliament, has brought down legislation which in the future will make it impossible for unions to amalgamate. The Minister is shaking his head. Obviously he has not read the terms of his own legislation, or the draftsman has gone astray. What the Minister is saying in this legislation as a first tenet is that there must be a 50 per cent poll, that is, half of the people must vote in an election before it is a valid election. I do not notice the Minister nodding or shaking his head to that statement. Of the 50 per cent who vote, at least half, which in effect is 25 per cent of the membership, must vote in favour of the proposition if it is to be successful. If there is a 49 per cent poll and 100 per cent of those who vote choose to vote in favour of the proposition it will be lost because less than 50 per cent of the people who were eligible to vote in fact voted. 
Being a numbers man from way backand the Minister is smiling so I presume he is some sort of a numbers man too - the name of the game will be to persuade people not to vote. It will not be to persuade people to vote, but to persuade them not to vote. The people who are known to be active members of the National Civic Council, the Democratic Labor Party of Australia and the industrial group movement are known to be well versed in this sort of tactic. There will be a very great campaign to induce people not to vote and thereby negate a proposition because the required percentage does not vote. That is what the Minister is proposing. 
I have heard the Minister say - and I commend him for saying it although it is seldom I commend him for something - that there are too many trade unions in Australia. That is not denied by anybody. It is agreed that the trade union movement would be so much stronger if there were more amalgamations and unions came together in this way. But the Minister does not believe that and he has proved his disbelief by drafting the Bill in the way in which he has. The trade union movement in Australia is a matter of some concern to the Minister. I believe that the reason for this concern is that the trade union movement is the only organised body of people in this country prepared to challenge situations that are bad. Instead of the Minister trying to destroy the trade union movement he ought to be trying to foster it. 
Having worked at the factory level I know that a shop steward is the logica] person to resolve disputes. The Minister speaks about the number of work-days lost through industrial disputes, and I have heard his colleagues say the same thing in this House. Something like  2i  million or 3 million man-days are lost in a year through industrial disputes. I understand that his Department does not even keep statistics on man-days that are lost through industrial incidents. Unemployment has cost this country 12 million man-days a year. I am referring there to induced unemployment and ignoring the recognised level of some 60,000 people who are unemployed all the time. But the extra 60,000 unemployed that the Minister and his Government have brought into the community have meant the loss of 12 million mandays a year, and there is no word about that from the Government. The time lost through industrial disputes in Australia is estimated generally at  2i  million or 3 million man-days a year. No endeavour has ben made to give the reasons why these stoppages occur. The Prime Minister commented that generally there are fewer stoppages in Australia than there are in any other part of the world. That appears in the Hansard report of his speech in this debate. The majority of industrial disputes are caused by men refusing to go into unsafe places. They refuse to work in buildings, in mines or in areas where their lives are at risk. I invite the Minister or any member on the Government side of the House to stand up and tell me that men ought to go into areas where they believe their lives are at risk. I do not think they will do that. 
There is talk about political strikes. Nobody has ever defined a political strike. Working men have an obligation and a right to take industrial action to rectify any of the things that concern them, but the Minister through this legislation is seeking to deny them that right. He would deny workers the right to take industrial action, which is the only way they can deal with situations, the only way they know how to deal with them and to correct them. I do not know whether the 
Minister and his Government are the repository of all wisdom; 1 doubt that they are. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that immigrants cannot receive social service benefits until they have been resident in Australia for a number of years. 
Is it also a fact that special benefits are refused by the Department of Social Services if a guarantee has been signed on behalf of an immigrant. 
Can he say whether many guarantors repudiate their guarantees. 
If so, what action is taken to ensure that guarantees are honoured. 
I rise in this debate to support the proposals put forward by my colleagues the honourable members for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  I was somewhat disturbed by the most learned arguments and case quoting that was indulged in by my very honourable and learned friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  However, it seems to me that this legalistic jargon of lawyers is what the whole business is all about. I am not persuaded away from the proposition that lawyers have a vested interest in provoking and prolonging disputes. There is no doubt that the Government will have clause 13 passed because it has the numbers to do so. However, 1 do not think that the claim by the Minister for Labour and National Servce  (Mr Lynch)  that the whole Bill is aimed at resolving industrial disputes is correct. I would think that the proposed new sections, particularly proposed new section 31, were introduced into the Bill because of a lack of understanding - an admission by the Government of its lack of understanding - of what the present economic crisis is all about. 

 Mr Chairman, every honourable member of this chamber has heard Government supporters, from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  down, say that the economic difficulties that exist in this country are caused through high wages and wage increases. Honourable members opposite have said that they have been caused through savage attacks on employers by unions and unionists. In order to overcome this economic problem which it does not understand, the Government has resorted to union bashing. The minimum wage is about $54 a week. Anyone who calls that a magnificent wage should try to live on it. On the other hand, the average wage is about $100 a week. What does this all mean? It means that a lot of people in the community are receiving much more than the minimum wage. Further, it means that individual unions have been engaged in collective bargaining with individual employers to obtain better rates of pay and, in the case of the waterside workers and other unions as well, better working conditions. I mention the waterside workers because their union has reached agreement with their employers for a shorter working week. This has not pleased the Government at all. As a result it has introduced proposed new section 31 in which it will not be possible for individual unions to make individual gains from individual employers. 
Perhaps we should look at the situation as to why unions are succeeding in their individual claims. They succeed not because they blackmail employers or because they do all of the things that are alleged against them. I would be of the opinion that the unions are successful because the employers agree to increases. They agree not under duress but on the basis of negotiation. The Government believes that something is wrong if it is possible for individual employers to agree to substantial increases in wages for their employees. 
Somebody is getting too big a share of the national cake, and I am speaking here of the employers. Some employers are engaged much more profitably than others. Once again there is a division. There is no levelling out and no attempt by this Government to level out that sort of share of the national cake. If the working people in this country, through their recognised organisations, seek increases, this Government through measures like this makes sure that they are not able to get them. It hamstrings them and ties them. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  recognised some of these problems because he said he would think twice about the dangers. I think he should think five or six times about the dangers because they are inherent in this sort of legislation which sets about destroying the whole basis of conciliation. This Act is termed the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Conciliation is not restricted only to the clinical confines of a court. As the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has explained - I also have been party to such negotiations but perhaps not in the same places as he has negotiated though in places of a similar kind - conciliation takes place between employer and employee representatives away from the clinical atmosphere of a court. This is also conciliation. Conciliation does not have to be carried out in the atmosphere of a court. Proposed new section 31 takes away entirely the right of employees to negotiate. It also takes away the right of employers to negotiate. That to my mind will not do anything to resolve the alleged - I use that word advisedly - unrest which exists in this country. If that was the reason why this Bill was brought in then it will not achieve it. 
On the question of the shorter hours that have been negotiated by the Waterside Workers Federation, the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  against this agreement were not surprising. I forget the date but I remember reading of similar arguments made against the repeal of the corn laws in Great Britain, and that was more than 100 years ago. The same arguments were put forward when the. child labour laws were introduced in Great Britain and children were brought out of the mines and factories. The arguments then were that the economy could not stand it. The same is being said in 1972. I support the proposition that with mechanisation as we have it, particularly on the waterfront but generally in any industry, there can be no logical argument to sustain a case against individual employees and industries negotiating with their employers for a shorter working week in those industries. This concept is not new either. I remind this Committee that in the United States of America, the bastion of free enterprise, and in most other countries, people are working a much shorter week than we are in Australia. We speak about a 40-hour week as though it was something sacred. There is not a clerical officer employed by the Government that you support,  Mr Chairman,  who works a 40-hour week. These people work some peculiar time like  36i  hours a week. Does anybody say that the country would benefit if they worked the extra  3i  hours a week? Of course not. Why should they work longer hours? Probably they should work fewer hours than they are working now, and people in particular industries should be working fewer hours. 
The country is beset with problems of inflation and unemployment, yet the Government still talks about there being no area of negotiation between individual employees and employers. There is little doubt in my mind that this provision will be agreed to, but it will hamstring employees and employers in this regard completely. Everybody will work a 40-hour week irrespective of the conditions that apply in their industries. Everybody will receive the same wage irrespective of the capacity of their employers to pay. Where does that leave us? It means that for those employers who have a greater capacity to pay - and this Government will not do anything about rectifying that position through the obvious means of taxation - the money will remain in their coffers and they will not be worried about overseas corporations taking over our chicken roll and dim sim factories. lt will go a lot further than that. I urge the Committee to disagree with the inclusion of this provision in the Bill and vote with the Opposition, the Party which is taking an intelligent approach to this matter, to take this provision out of this Bill altogether. 
I rise to take part in this debate again only because of the continued reference to me by my honourable and, I must add. learned friend, the esteemed honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  It seems to me that all these clauses that we now are discussing come down to a matter of public interest. Twice today I have heard my very learned friend from Moreton endeavour to explain to this House how he justified the Government taking action in the public interest, yet he 'has not done so. On 2 occasions he has risen to speak. He quoted case histories. By interjection he admitted that one cannot establish this rather vague public interest. Yet, he will support the Government and he will support the Minister in writing this principle into the Act. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Stirling interjected, it is an act of God. Surely it is in the same category. It seems that anything that does not please the Government comes into the category of not being in the public interest. It seems to me to be as simple as that. I do not have the benefit of a degree at law. I have never been called to the Bar. I have never wore the silk. I remember the honourable member for Moreton saying that when it comes to a question of determining that which is in the public interest, only lawyers can do it properly. 
As I said earlier today, and I repeat the statement, I think that lawyers have a vested interest in starting disputes and a further vested interest in prolonging them. I think the public of Australia should reject the suggestion - the honourable member for Moreton went further than suggesting it - that only lawyers have some sort of prerogative in determining that which is in the public interest. 
In the debate on this Bill last Thursday, I made the comment that there was no mystique about lawyers, other than the mystique that they created about themselves. Surely the question that we are considering is the question that confronts working people in this country - the problems between them and their employers. I think that this country has reached a pretty sorry state when a government of the political colour of the Government that sits opposite us in this House goes into the court, makes reference to matters that affect working people and those who employ them, and casts its political judgments upon something that surely is divorced from politics. Yet the honourable member for Moreton says that this is the way things should be. I apologise for repeating myself, but I do not think that the settlement of disputes takes place in the clinical atmosphere of a court. 
The provisions that the Government intends to write into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act revolve around the notorious section 28 of the parent Act. That was never a good provision. Nobody from the trade union movement ever agreed that section 28 was of any value, yet the Government now. in a blatant attempt at union bashing, proposes to introduce to that bad section of the parent Act provisions which do not improve the Act at all but in fact make it worse. All this was raised earlier. 1 appreciate that the hour is getting late and 1 know that other honourable members have many things to say on this point. 1 compliment my colleagues on this side of the House who have made very valuable contributions to this debate. This matter is of importance to a large section of the community. We must be reminded that there are 4.5 million people in this country who work to produce the goods and provide the services that are required by the rest of the community. 
No. I do not think the rest of them are lawyers. Some of them are school teachers and others have all sorts of other jobs. But that 4.5 million people - I am speaking now of the male working population - have wives and children who are dependent upon them. Therefore, I would presume we are speaking of something like 9 million people out of a total population of 13 million people. It seems to me, and I have yet to be persuaded away from this argument, that anything that is in the best interests of those 9 million people surely is in the public interest. Is that not what we are talking about? Has the honourable member for Moreton not tried to persuade us that it should be a small minority - the 66 men of this great nation who sit on the other side of the House - that represents the public interest? The Government's ideas of public interest are the interests of the  Sir Frank  Packers and companies such as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and other organisations which the Government represents. I can assure you,  Mr Chairman,  and every honourable member who sits on the other side of the chamber, that that is not my idea of public interest. My idea of public interest is that which affects the people who live in my electorate and in the electorates of other honourable members. As I have explained, these are the people who work and provide the goods and services for the rest of the community. That is the public interest. I support anything that is in their best interests. 
I object to and will vote against these proposed amendments to the Act because, in my book, they are bad because they are not in the public interest. In my book, the public interest - I notice that the honourable member for Moreton is not interested enough in what I am saying to listen - is the Australian working community. I will support anything that I believe to be in their best interests and, as far as 1 am concerned, the  Sir Frank  Packers, the  Sir Reginald  Ansetts and those other mighty captains of industry of this country can go hang. That is what I consider them to be worth. 
The clause we are discussing deals with the notorious sections 109 and 111 of the parent Act. These are generally known as the penal provisions. I agree entirely with the comments of my colleague from South Australia the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who said that there is always a danger in arbitral actions that where men who have taken what honourable members opposite like to regard as industrial action the matter could well involve a question of safety. It is true that from the Government side there has been only one speech, and that was from the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  J suppose he amused us with his quotations, as he generally amuses us, but in his usual inimitable fashion he did not say anything. He used a lot of words but said nothing. He did say on one occasion that he unblushingly said something or other. I would be delighted to hear of the situation in which the honourable member for Moreton would blush. It would probably make a wharf labourer blush. Towards the end of his speech he quoted comments made by the late and most revered  Dr Evatt.  He has decided to justify- 
No, that is all right. He quoted from comments made by the late and most revered  Dr Evatt.  Indeed his conservative colleagues who sit around him invariably do refer to past events. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  also is sitting on the front bench at the moment. I have heard him quote in this chamber documents written in 1947 and 1949 and endeavour to convince us that the opinions expressed in them are applicable to contemporary society. I cannot be persuaded by that sort of argument. This is 1972. There are circumstances existing in 1972 that did not exist in 1947 or 1949, which I remind the Committee were about 25 years or a whole generation ago. As I have said, the circumstances that existed in those times are not applicable in 1972. So where is the validity in honourable members opposite taking themselves back into the past and dragging out these matters from their archives? 
The Minister for Social Services quoted from a letter written in 1947 and tried to relate it to a recent industrial dispute in Victoria. For the life of me, I cannot be persuaded that there is any relevance in this. The platform of the Australian Labor Party, of which I am very proud to be a member, implacably says that there shall be no penal provisions. That is the chapter and verse; there is no equivocation. 
The honourable member who interjected may not be prepared to support the policy of his Party, in the odd places that it does have a policy, but I am quite prepared to support the policy of my Party all along the line. 
Perhaps that is more than the honourable member for Angas has ever done in the time he has been in this chamber. I believe that the penal provisions are bad. They are in the legislation for one reason and for one reason only, that is to make a particular section of the community - one may say a very large section - do things whether they wish to or not. Under these provisions they will be made to do these things. The Government and its supporters are displeased if they do not do these things. Why are the supporters of the Government disappointed and aggravated if the working people of this country do not do these things? 
The Government will try to justify the inclusion of penal provisions by saying that the non-implementation of these provisions would have a deleterious effect on the economy of this country. I would suggest that this would have a more deleterious effect on the pockets of those who make a profit from every hour worked by the working people of this country. This is the reason why the penal provisions were introduced. 
The legislation has been introduced to impose fines, not only on organisations but on individuals to ensure that they go to work, whatever that expression means, stay there for a set number of hours and during the course of a year enjoy only conditions that are given to them after a good deal of negotiation. If the working people choose to withdraw their services and refuse in effect to sell their commodity - that is their labour - this Government intends to come down by way of heavy handed legislation to impose fines to the tune of $1,000 a day on an individual and $500 a day on organisations to ensure that workers provide their commodity. 
I have tried to draw the following analogy before in the House and I repeat it to this Committee. If any employer, manufacturer or any person who provides services in this community found that it was unprofitable to make these goods or provide these services and decided he no longer would remain in that sort of business no matter how much those goods and services were needed by the community, this Government would not take a stand anywhere at all to ensure that these goods or services were provided. The Government would say that if goods or services were unprofitable to provide it was part of the free enterprise or market system that one could make one's own choice about whether to provide them. But what happens when a working man or group of working men take a free decision not to provide their commodity or services - that is their labour. They are driven to work with whips. They are dragged before the courts. They are fined and bludgeoned into providing the only service or commodity that they can sell - that is their ability to labour. 
This Government and governments of the same colour across the world traditionally have done this to working people. The current legislation is bad. It is bad in the eyes of the trade union movement, the Labor Party and the people of this country. Now this Government intends to compound that which is bad by adding to it to make it worse. There is not a trade union official in this country who would not tell us how restrictive and how bludgeoning were sections 109 and 111 of the Con ciliation and Arbitration Act. Yet this Government has now introduced proposals not to improve the situation but to make it worse. It intends to leave working people in the position in which orders can be issued against them. Little inquiry is to be made into the circumstances surrounding each case. There is to be a de facto case that the working people are guilty. If that means anything to my honourable friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I am sure that he would agree with me that there is no inquiry in the first instance as to who is or is not guilty. An order is issued on the application of an employer and that order restricts working men in their actions. No inquiry is held at that stage to determine whether the order is good or bad or whether the circumstances are just or unjust. It is simply an order issued by the court on the application of an employer. The investigation takes place later, although the fines commence from the day that the order is issued. There is no investigation as to why that order ought or ought not to be issued. 
I can well understand the look of amazement on the face of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  because I am quite sure that he is unaware of these provisions. He has not been involved and does not know that this is the situation that confronts working people in this country. The proposals are bad and they must be rejected by this Committee. The Committee must report to the House that it cannot agree with these proposals and they must be thrown out in their entirety. 
 In line with other clauses included in this Bill clause 16 is a restrictive provision. It does nothing to move Australia to the position that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr. Lynch)  assured us was the aim of the Bill in his second reading speech, namely, of improving industrial relations in Australia by moving in a spirit of conciliation and of settling disputes, not aggravating them. Clause 16 states: 
Section 39 of the principal Act is- amended by adding at the end thereof the, following sub-section:  .-. 
Perhaps I could digress at this stage and, for the benefit of the Committee, quote section 39 of the principal Act which states: 
In relation to an industrial dispute, with which the Commission is dealing, the Commission shall, in such manner as it thinks fit, carefully and expeditiously hear, inquire into and -investigate the dispute and all matters affecting the merits of the dispute and the right settlement of the dispute. 
I think that the last part of the last sentence is the crux of the whole matter, namely, 'the right settlement of the dispute'. If we are speaking about conciliation, which seems to me to be what we are speaking about, we are speaking about getting the parties to a dispute- of course the word 'conciliation' presupposes that a dispute exists - together in order to arrive at some sort of settlement. I do not think that there would be any disagreement in the community with that proposition. My respected friend the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  has already made this point but I would like to elaborate on it. Apart from being a conciliatory body, and being expected to resolve a dispute that exists between 2 people or 2 groups of people, the Commission, in considering that dispute and its settlement, is expected to take into account the very ethereal quality called the national economy, an expression that the honourable ' member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who is not here at  the moment, would, I am sure, take issue on, as he does with the question of ihe public interest. It is a very difficult, almost impossible, expression to define. Yet these expressions are liberally - that is a small T - splattered throughout this whole Bill. 
To talk about the national economy and to expect the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to have some expertise in this matter is an act of arrant nonsense, even blatant arrogance, on the part of the Government. It is a denial and a refusal by the Government to accept its rightful role in the community. I see the role of a national government as being to consider the national economy as it sees it from time to time and not to depute that right to another body, certainly a body such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which, during its hearing of national wage cases over a period of years, has indicated clearly that its knowledge of what the national economy is all about is very limited. There have been so many contradictions in the decisions handed down from time to time by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that it ceases to be humorous. On a number of occasions the court has said one thing in one national wage case decision, and the reverse in another. The latest and perhaps most glaring example of that is that some 2 or 3 years ago the court agreed with a submission by  Mr Robinson,  who was the employers representative at that time, that the national economy, which was being ostensibly considered then, would be better off with a national wage and that there should be no longer the structure which we knew and which seemed to serve the purpose so well of a basic wage and a margin for skill. So that was disposed of. The arguments put by the Australian Council of Trade Unions were disregarded. The body which made that decision is the body which is now expected  to  take into account the national economy. Some 2 or 3 years later the court now agrees that the national wage concept does not work. 
It would be better if we had a way to determine the sum on which a man, his wife and his children could live, as  Mr Justice  Higgins introduced in the Harvester award in the first national basic wage decision, and then a margin for skill. There has been a complete reversal of form by the Commission. I am not quarrelling with the right of the Commission to be inconsistent because the inconsistencies are fundamental inconsistencies which clearly illustrate to me - and I do not hold myself out as a paragon of the community but I think I am a average member of the community and I believe that most members of the community share this view - that the Commission has demonstrated on more than one occasion that it is incapable of considering and not properly equipped to consider the questions of the economy which are placed before it. 
We are now talking about the settlement of disputes. We are not talking about national wage cases. We are not talking about anything other than a settlement of an industrial dispute according to the provisions of section 39 of the principal Act. If the Government is seriously concerned about the number of man-days that are lost through disputes in this country it will have greater concern after this Bill is passed because there can be no question that a dispute which could be relatively and simply solved by the good offices of a conciliator will be dragged on and on as the Commission considers the national economy in the light of public interest. Already one honourable member on the Government side, a man learned in the law, has said to us how very very difficult it is even to define 'the public interest'. He is not in the chamber at present to tell us how much easier or more difficult - and I would believe more difficult - it would be to define the national economy. 
It is not a question of courts deciding. If it were a question of the courts deciding, let us dissolve this whole place, pay us all off and send us home so that we can enjoy the comfort, of our own homes instead of coming to this Parliament to put forward propositions that are going to be steamrolled by the Government on the basis of the strength of its numbers without any cognisance being taken of that which is said. It is not possible to resolve an industrial dispute if the commissioners who are appointed to resolve the dispute have to concern themselves with the national economy. That is the function of the people who sit on the other side of this chamber. After the end of this year when the first Whitlam ministry takes its place in this  chamber there will be more of us with him on the other side than there are now on this side and there will be fewer members on this side of the chamber. When we sit on that side it will be our function to take into account all matters that affect the national economy and not to depute that function to somebody else. It will be our right and we will ensure that it will be carried out. We will not squib the issue as the Government is squibbing the issue in this proposed amendment to section 39 of the principal Act and I hope that the Committee will reject it. 
Question put: 
That clause 16 be agreed to. 
I rise to support my colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  I join him in opposing as strongly as I possibly can amendments Nos 1 and 7 sent back to us from the Senate. To refresh the mind of honourable members I point out that amendment No. 1  -  and it is not explained why this is the case - seeks to vary the date of operation of the Bill. I refer to clause 2 (2.) to which this amendment applies. This clause deals with proposed new sections 41, 49, 51, 53 and 68. The Bill states that the legislation will come into operation on the day on which this Bill receives Royal Assent. In fact, the amendment which was moved and carried in the Senate makes the date of operation, as I understand it, Friday of last week. Surely this action poses the question why it was necessary to back-date the legislation and why the original provisions of the Bill were not agreed to. The Government must have thought when the Bill was drafted that it would come into operation from the date of Royal Assent. In the short time in which I have been in this House this seems to have been in line with the common terminology of Bills. Yet, in this legislation an amendment has been moved by the 
Government In the Senate and agreed to after opposition from the Australian Labor Party in that place. This amendment would make the date of operation a day before the Bill even received Royal Assent or the concurrence of members of this Parliament. 
When one reads the clauses that axe to be affected by the date being set back I think the position starts to become a bit clearer. Clause 51, which is the clause on which I placed some emphasis before, is one of the clauses which will be affected by the back-dating of this Bill. We should bear in mind the fact that only on Tuesday of this week, I believe,  Dr Sharp,  the Industrial Registrar, finally came to execute all of the instruments necessary for the amalgamation of the metal trades unions. There were still some arguments going on in the metal trades unions, particularly in regard to the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society, on Friday of last week in regard to several pipelines which are to be laid in Port Phillip Bay. Does the Government or the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  intend that this new provision in the Bill should now be used to upset that amalgamation that has taken something in excess of 12 months - very nearly 2 years - to go through the procedures? Is the Government with one stroke of its pen going to place all of these negotiations and agreements and everything that has been done in jeopardy and require the union to go right back to square one and start again? I well remember the honourable member for Stirling, when this Bill was last in this place, asking the Minister at a very early hour in the morning whether this Bill in any way would affect the amalgamation of the 3 metal trades unions. The Minister could not answer because his adviser was not present. Only when finally pressed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  did the Minister say that there was no guarantee that the effects of this Bill would not be made applicable to these unions that had come within one inch, after having run a distance of many miles, of consummating their amalgamation. 
It is very obvious that the amendments are aimed at the amalgamation or nonamalgamations of unions and nothing else. 
Amendment No. 1 and amendment No. 7 are the critical amendments that deal with amalgamation. I think that members of my own Party in this place canvassed the question of amalgamtion very well when the Bill was originally in this chamber. We made it quite clear that in our view this Bill ought to be retitled as a Bill for an Act to prevent amalgamations. Just before he resumed his seat, the honourable member for Stirling mentioned that the Minister for Labour and National Service had spoken about the need for amalgamation and, in fact, had lauded employer organisations which, for a variety of reasons, had chosen to amalgamate. The Minister has made it clear publicly that he believes there are too many unions and that there should be an amalgamation of unions, yet he has been instrumental in introducing this type of legislation which makes the amalgamation of unions virtually impossible. 
I wonder whether this Government, which is placing all these impediments upon the amalgamation of trade unions, which it seems to regard as different from every other organisation in the country, would be prepared to introduce into this House as an amendment to the Companies Act, the Trade Practices Act or any other Act, guidelines, rules and regulations to resolve the amalgamation of organisations such as Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, in respect of which we recently experienced a fiasco. Is there any need for organisations of this ilk to be bound by the very restrictive processes that will be established by this Bill in respect of organisations of working class people who come together to further their aims? Perhaps in the Government's view - once again, my friend the honourable member for Stirling mentioned this - trade unions' standing in the community is different from that of other organisations. Is this Government really an anti-union government? Does it oppose the amalgamation and establishment of organisations that are formed primarily to support the interests of that section of the community which is not in the best position to protect itself? Or does this Government come down on the side of the very wealthy and powerful organisations and leave them to their own devices when it comes to a question of amalgamation? 
It is well known that the provisions contained in the amendment were asked for by the Federal Secretary of the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia,  Mr Laurie  Short, who, of course, was ably assisted by the Federated Clerks Union of Australia, whose general  president Mr Maynes  was seen skulking around the corridors of Parliament House only last week. He was conferring with his mouthpieces in the Senate. The amendment which has been produced is a direct result of the pressure which was applied by a minority political party in this Parliament, supported by a minority group in the community. As I see it, this leads to a cynical arithmetical exercise by any union which wishes to amalgamate with another union. The amendment provides that if the membership of the host union is not increased by more than 5 per cent in an amalgamation, the union can make an application to be exempted from a ballot. This amendment does not set out conditions that would preclude an unscrupulous act by somebody or any act which would be legitimate within the wide application of the amendment. A large union could say to a smaller organisation: 'We will dispense with enough of your membership to leave you with only the required 5 per cent and then we will not need a ballot'. Dangers of that sort are inherent in this situation. 
This amendment initially, is bad. We said that it was bad when it was proposed in this place and it has not been improved by the Democratic Labor Party, whose masters in the community insisted that certain amendments be carried. The provision has been worsened and, like my colleagues in the Labor Party, I intend to vote against it. Divisions will be called on these matters and we will vote solidly against them. We trust that enough wisdom will prevail on the Government side of the House for Government supporters to listen to the reason of the arguments that have been put forward and that they will join with us and have this iniquitous legislation thrown out. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -  (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that 2.5 million man days production were lost last year through what is loosely termed industrial action? Will the Minister agree that an extra 60,000 people have been unemployed because of Government action and ' that this number of people represent 12.5 mil1 lion man days lost production? If this is the case, will the Minister agree that the Government's action is at least 5 times as detrimental to the economy as industrial action attributed to so-called militant trade unions? 
In rising to join in this year's Budget debate I would like to make some comments about the remarks made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who has just finished speaking. In the closing stages of his contribution he made some pious reference to violence in the trade union movement. I find that very strange coming from a representative of a government that is violent, a government that practises violence, a government that has blood on its hands from Vietnam, the blood of the children of Vietnam and the blood of Australian men. It is a government that supports the regimes of South Africa and Rhodesia and then piously speaks about violence in the trade union movement in Australia. 
It seems that the Minister was arguing against himself on more than one occasion. He mentioned the unemployment figures and disputed the forecasts that had been made by members of the Opposition. He accused members on this side of the House of not accurately representing the situation. I would level the same accusation against him because his department - probably under his instruction and, I would think, his deliberate instruction - does not accurately present the picture of the number of unemployed in Australia.  His  Department presents to us the figures of those who are registered for unemployment but these figures do not take into account the housewives who leave industry and go back home because there are no jobs for them. They do not register as being unemployed nor do they receive unemployment relief as their husbands are employed. The Department's figures do not take into account the number of students who went back to school at the start of this year, who will still be there at the end of this year and at the start of next year. They are unemployed people, or to put it another way, they are a labour resource which is not being used. There is a big difference between those registered for unemployment and a labour resource or labour potential that is not being used. This situation is caused by the direct action of this Government. The Minister has said that the list of measures taken by this Government are well known. He was speaking of the unemployment situation. The actions taken are well known. They are well known to  100,000  men walking the streets every day looking for work. He said that the figures df the number of man-days lost through strikes show only the tip of the iceberg. That could be right, but his unemployment figures are also only the tip of the iceberg. 
He mentioned the strike involving the State Electricity Commission of Victoria and the oil industry strike and the hardship that they caused the workers who were put out of work because of them. But he neglected to tell us that both the SEC strike and the oil industry strike - which was a national strike - were the direct result of Government interference in industrial affairs. He did not tell us that  Sir Henry  Bolte, the then Premier of Victoria, played a direct role by requesting the Chamber of Manufactures to advise its members to close their factories and stand men down so that things would look bad for the unions. 
He did not tell us that the McMahon Government played a very significant role in the oil strike. I can assure the Minister that the people of Australia are saying that the oil companies had only one spokesman and that was the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Everybody knows  Mr Hawke  and that he was speaking on behalf of the unions involved. They all know  Mr Halfpenny  and that he was speaking on behalf of the unions. But nobody heard anybody except those in this Government speak on behalf of the oil companies. This Government put itself in the position of being the spokesman for the oil companies during the strike because as part of its desperate plan to find some sort of issue to bring up for the coming election - it knows it has lost the elections - it was casting around trying to draw on the law and order issue and trying to associate the trade unions with it. 
Members on the Government side certainly have reduced this debate to a level of personal attack on members of the Opposition. One after the other - the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  and many others - they have refrained from speaking about issues relating to the Budget. They have all used glowing terms to describe it.'They have referred to it as a magnificent Budget. Magnificent for whom? That is what I would like to know. They have dragged out every adjective to describe the Budget but' it is still as bad as it was the day it was presented. The Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  made one of the most dastardly contributions I have ever heard in this House; in fact he made no contribution at all. I am surprised that he so demeaned himself and stooped to such a level. The Australian people will not be hoodwinked by the desperate actions of these desperate men. 
Leaving that matter on one side, I would like to read to the House the amendment which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  It said:  
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; 
That is the part to which I would like to draw attention -  and in particular because it provides no programme for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs and prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for our capital cities and regional centres'. 
It is in that context that I would like to raise the matter of local government. People usually close their minds when local government is mentioned. I have heard it referred to as a Cinderella. The Leader of the Opposition has moved this progressive amendment and it has received the expected response from Government members who have reached deeply into their armoury and brought out the ultimate weapon: Where is the money to come from? That expression has worn thin with use. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  ignored local government, both in philosophy and fact, in this Budget He ignored the feature which is common to all Australians, rich and poor, city and country dweller, northerner and southerner, mainlander and islander, easterner and westerner, employed and unemployed, factory owner and housewife. The feature of which I speak is local government, involving cities, boroughs, shires and their respective councils, their officers, ratepayers and their functions. The role of local government in Australia has become that of collector of unpopular taxes. 
Sitting suspended from 6.10 to 8 p.m. 
Before the House suspended its sitting for dinner I was outlining how the superficial Government in the superficial Budget it has just introduced had neglected and completely overlooked the position of local government in the whole scheme of things. It would be true to say that successive Liberal Party, Country Party and Democratic Labor Party coalition governments have used local government as a repository for tasks for which the Federal Government wishes to have no responsibility. The present system of local government was imported from Britain in the mid-nineteenth century, and its original role was to tend to local matters such as roads, bridges, drainage, water supply, garbage collection and sewage disposal, planning and like matters which are considered fundamental to people living in communities and sharing benefits which they have Jointly provided. So came into being the expression that local government is closest to the people. It is perhaps closest in the sense of providing the basic needs of people, but it is as aloof in administration and representation as any other organised governmental activity. Rather than 3 tiers of government, I see an integrated system of government with no one level being nearer to or more aloof from the people than any other. Each level of government - Federal, State and local - is responsible for areas of jurisdiction and areas of tax collection. 
Let us never forget that we as citizens of Australia wear many hats. We each pay taxes on our incomes, taxes on our purchases, rates on our land whether we rent it or own it, and rates to our water and sewerage authorities. We also pay many other taxes. Therefore when we speak of taxpayers we are speaking of ratepayers and vice versa. However there is one vital difference between rates on land and taxes on income, and that is that taxes take account of capacity to pay while rates take account only of the fact that people live, and they fall heavily on the poor and lightly on the rich. This brings me to the point which I wish to make, and I trust make strongly. Municipalities raise revenue to provide citizens with services, and many of the services provided can be measured and the cost allocated to recipients on an equitable basis. As an example, the total cost of the collection of household garbage is known and can be divided by the number of houses serviced so that the average cost of collecting a can of garbage from a house can be accurately measured. In the same way the cost of lighting streets, sweeping channels and maintaining drains and roads can be accurately measured and equally allocated among the community. In other words all share equally; therefore all should contribute equally. 
But other services are thrust upon the municipalities for which they are not equipped to raise finance equitably. In this area we find health services and social services generally. It is not possible to measure the costs of these services and apportion them between rich and poor as they should be apportioned. The poor need health and welfare services, whilst those in better circumstances do not. However, as long as this function is thrust upon local councils and their system of revenue raising remains unchanged, we find that those who need social services are asked to pay more in rates so that better social services can be provided for those who cannot afford to pay the higher rates to their councils.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you find that statement confusing and circular in its logic, let me assure you that that is the confusing, illogical situation which exists in every one of the myriad of municipalities throughout the land. 
The salient problems confronting municipalities today differ depending on the nature of the area for which the local council is responsible, but again they have a common denominator and that is the need for an injection of funds from outside the municipal area. Infant welfare facilities, pre-school centres, sporting fields and pavilions and public halls command priorities in newly developing areas and must compete with road, drainage and bridge construction. Of course the latter works gain the lion's share of available funds. The other necessary works must be deferred and on many occasions the deferment lasts until the children who required the services are grown and have spent their childhood without the benefit of these facilities. Developed areas, especially if they are old established areas, face other problems. Their needs are for municipal assistance to supplement the incomes of pensioners and for alleviation of the financially crippling burden of reconstruction of assets, especially roads, which have deteriorated because of usage and age. 
The provision of a library service is regarded in this day and age as an integral feature of the education of the community; yet the ratepayer again bears the biggest share of the financial burden. In my own State of Victoria the running cost of libraries is shared between the State Government and the municipality. It was originally shared equally, with the State Government not being prepared to contribute more than 40c per head of population in the metropolitan area and 50c in the country areas. That ceiling has remained unchanged for many years, so that now the average cost of operating a municipal library is of the order of $1.20 per head of population a year. As the State still contributes only 40c the residents must contribute at the rate of 80c per head. This is another area in which the Federal Government can and should give a lead in assisting the municipal governments. 
Debt servicing is completely out of hand and is assuredly responsible for municipalities going to the wall. Many examples can be quoted, but the record shows that total indebtedness for Victorian local authorities increased by 74 per cent from 1962 to 1967 as opposed to an increase of State Government indebtedness of 36 per cent.  If  other authorities such as the Metropoli tan Board of Works are included the percentage is higher and the Board of Works is paying more than 50 per cent of all its revenue just to service debts. It is obvious what is happening. Commonwealth and State governments show a dereliction of responsibility in their approach to problems, and poor old local government is being left to carry the ball. It just cannot go on. Cities, factories and denser habitation bring enormous environmental problems and the municipalities, through their health inspectors and limited testing facilities, will undoubtedly be left to try to cope. These facts are brought about either directly or indirectly by the action of the Commonwealth Government. It encourages factories, the growth of cities and closer and denser habitation of areas, but nowhere in the Budget does the Commonwealth Government accept any share of the responsibility for ensuring that municipalities are able to cope with this problem, which like so many others, especially the problem of social services, is being thrust upon them. We cannot allow this situation to continue or else the whole fabric of our society, which has become threadbare after 23 years of irresponsible government, will disintegrate entirely. 
It is not my intention to be hypercritical and then leave it at that. Rather do ( trust that I can make some worthwhile contribution towards a solution, as I know that after the next Federal election, when a Labor government is installed, this problem will be not only assaulted but resolved. Firstly, it will be necessary to define, areas of responsibility and to recognise the peculiar skills and talents that pertain to each level of government. Government at the Commonwealth level is ideally structured to raise revenue equitably. Only a Commonwealth government can get into the pay packet and assess a person's capacity to pay taxes. The Commonwealth has also attracted great skills and talents in the administrative field. The States, on the other hand, are limited in their methods of raising revenue, but they have attracted people who are skilled at performing work and resolving technical problems, whereas the local councils are admirably equipped to inquire into and advise on the needs of their relatively smaller areas and are poorly equipped to raise finance on an equitable basis. 
After defining these areas of action, I feel that it would be reasonable to say that a ratepayer as such should be responsible for the actual cost of measurable expenditure such as expenditure on the collection of garbage, lighting and cleaning of streets and related items as well as expenditure on the share of administration associated with these functions. The Commonwealth should be entirely responsible for the cost and provision of social services, health and social welfare programmes as advised by local councils and considered by a board or committee. Municipal libraries should be financed by the Commonwealth as part of the general education programme, as should preschool centres and child minding centres. Reconstruction of roads should be financed from taxes paid by motorists in the form of excise on motor fuel. A larger share of this revenue should come to municipalities. The exemption from rates enjoyed by properties owned by the Crown should be withdrawn, and the Crown should pay rates as any other landowner. Loan funds should be made available to local councils at a nominal rate of interest so that works can be carried out without local governments incurring crippling burdens to service these debts. 
To sum up, this Budget makes no mention either by statement or inference of any attempt being made to rearrange the area of responsibility of governments. It mentions no effort to evolve a system of equitable financing. It contains just the usual conservative approach that that which exists will continue whether it has served us badly or not. Because of the importance of this subject there is much more that can be said. I have no doubt that at a later date it will be explored much more thoroughly than I have been able to do in the limited time available to me this evening. As long as the present structure continues we are going to have hardship thrust upon the people of this country who are ratepayers as well as taxpayers. There will be no relief because they will be bound to pay their rates as they are bound to pay their taxes. These will fall more heavily on the poor than on the rich. They will become more of a burden for those who cannot afford them and an ever-lightening load for those who can. The pensioners in our community and those who exist on social services are prob ably hit harder by municipal rates than the community generally. Yet once again, under the structure that exists, only those who pay rates are called upon to make a recompense to those who are pensioners. This is clearly a function of the Commonwealth Government in the Budget which has been described in glowing terms by honourable members on the other side of the House. I think they do this for a particular reason. There is no way known for any relief by local governments for those who are not in the position to pay their local rates. I call upon the Government to reconsider its position, to take this into account, to take some serious action and to give serious thought to resolving this very important question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is the Minister satisfied that the Noise Exposure forecast levels and the transcription of effects of certain readings of noise level in relation to Tullamarine Airport are accurate. 
Is it a fact that the Victorian Housing Commission is building houses in the area affected by aircraft noise. 
If the Minister is satisfied that the forecasts and transcription of effects of certain readings are accurate, will he undertake to compensate those persons who have made or will make their homes in the area on the basis of the Department of Civil Aviation's assessment but who find the position worse than the Department's findings. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there is a large number of social service cases in the Electoral Division of Burke. 
If so, will he take action to establish a branch of his Departmentin the Division, especially giving consideration to the Glenroy 
Shopping Centre area. 
I join this debate on the estimates for the Department of Labour and National Service and I would like to make some comments on the speech just delivered by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  He was very vocal about the public interest, but neither he nor any of his colleagues sitting on the other side of the chamber - some of them very knowledgable men on the question of law - can in fact define what is the public interest. It seems to me that when we talk about wage rates and working conditions, we should keep in mind that a very large section of the Australian community is either involved directly in earning wages and obtaining good working conditions or their families are relying on it. If one is going to ignore them and pretend that those very people who are seeking these improvements are not part of the public interest then 1 have yet to be persuaded what is the public interest. 
The estimates that we are debating revolve around the Department of Labour and National Service which is the Department that has the very onerous task of administering the National Service Act. Because it is iniquitous the Act has fallen into great disrepute in the community recently. My own son is doing his national service training. I know very well from the reports that I receive from him and his friends who are also doing their national service training that this iniquitous Act has failed and failed miserably. These young men are appalled at the futility of the whole situation and the frustration that is forced upon them. The loss of the 18 months that they must serve away from their interests, away from their friends and away from their employment weighs very heavily upon their shoulders. 
The Act has another very bad effect. As  a  former trade union official I always have been concerned about the wage rates and working conditions of people in industry. I think a regular soldier or a career soldier, whatever one calls him, is a man working in industry and his wage rates and working conditions should not be put at risk. Yet, with the introduction of the national service scheme and the continuation of it, this Government has put at risk the wages and working conditions of the regular soldier or the career soldier. So long as conscripts are dragged into this so-called 'man's army' and made to stay there no matter what, at the risk or threat of imprisonment if they do not, then certainly the wage rates and working conditions of the other soldiers are at risk. The lives of the young men who have been conscripted have been disrupted. As has been indicated in another place, on occasions their lives have been terminated at their own hands as a result of the frustration. Nothing is being achieved. The jingoistic Government supporters, with their archaic attitude, resolve all problems by considering the question of war and would not think of looking anywhere else for solutions. I have said enough on that subject. 
The 35-hour week was mentioned by the honourable member for Denison and I believe it to be a very contentious question in Australia at the moment. It is one of those matters for which the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  would find himself with some degree of responsibility, although it must be recognised that the Commonwealth Government, under the Constitution, can legislate for working hours for its own employees only. Nevertheless, it should not be doing the things that it is doing and using the Public Service - people paid by the taxpayers of Australia - to present a very slanted and a very biased case to the Australian people to stir up their emotions and to try to turn them against themselves. This is the old divisive tactic of conservative governments down the ages, employed very carefully by this Government and used by it to great advantage over the last 23 years. 
In this case the Government tries to divide the community by trying to show to the community how the 35-hour week, in the Government's view, can only be of detriment to the community. A poll was conducted in July of this year and people were asked whether they thought that the 35-hour week should be introduced generally into industry in Australia. The response to that poll was that half of the people said that they thought that it was time - to use that very fine slogan - that a 35-hour week was introduced into industry. That is pretty significant, because the people who work and many people outside direct manufacturing would have been involved in this poll. They are the people who do not necessarily work the 40-hour week. 
It is one of the features of our community that only those who are directly engaged in manufacturing have awards containing a 40-hour week requirement and are bound to work that 40-hour week. Those people who are ancillary to manufacturing generally work somewhat less than 40 hours a week, ranging from 36 hours a week down to 35 hours a week. Very emotional statements were made on this whole question by Government supporters. I shall quote some of these to the Committee. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  called upon international corporations to fight Australian workers. He said: 
Many of these capital intensive industries are dominated by international corporations. The Government will be looking to these corporations to resist the demand for a 35-hour week. 
That is a fine example of an Australian statesman calling on overseas interests to join issue with Australian working men. A statement was also made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  He said: 
As one of the world's top trading nations Australia would suffer an explosive cost problem- 
Very emotional language -  if a 35-hour week became the national norm. 
The same gentleman, in a statement headed:  'Mr Hawke's  Myth', endeavoured to show that employees at the Australian National Line's terminal depots did not work a 35-hour week but worked a 40- hour week. Of course, he demonstrated his own lack of knowledge of rosters when he said that they worked a week of 5 days on and 3 days off. If he cares to follow that through to its 8 weeks conclusion for the cycle of the roster he will find that over the 8-week period the average hours worked per week are in fact 35 hours. There are 3 weeks at 40 hours and 5 weeks at 32 hours. Those 8 weeks work out at an average time of about 35 hours a week. 
I have here a document headed 'Shorter Working Week'. It is prepared and distributed by the Honourable Phillip Lynch, M.P., Minister for Labour and National Service, and is dated 28th August 1972. It bears the curious inscription at the top of the page which says: 'Government Members Only'. 
The Minister interjects and says that he does not mind me reading it. It is a lengthy document. I would be delighted if the Minister would give me the time to read the whole document into the record. But I very much doubt whether he will do so. The Minister is a very generous man, but I doubt that he is so generous that he would permit me to read the whole document. I would like to read from pages 11 and 12 of the document which I believe to be significant because we must bear in mind the comments 1 have made about the enormous cost that will be incurred by the Australian community on the introduction of the 35 hour week. Under the heading: 'Cost of Introducing a Shorter Working Week' the document states: 
A costing of the introduction of a shorter working week is inherently a complex and imprecise exercise. This is due to 3 considerations. Firstly, it is not possible to predict the precise conditions which unions will seek and which employers will concede or industrial tribunals will award. Secondly, it is not possible to assess any beneficial effects which a sh orter working week may have on productivity. Thirdly,, account cannot be taken of relative use of various possible adjustments by employers such as the employment of additional labour, increasing overtime working, cutting back the level of production or readjusting production techniques. 
Time is running out so I will skip some of this material which, although relevant, I do not have the time to read. Further on the document states: 
However, the above estimates assume no direct improvement in productivity as a result of the introduction of a shorter working week. To the extent that productivity does improve, the above estimates would have to be correspondingly reduced. Further the phasing-in of a 35-hour week over a period of years could lessen the impact on the economy. It is quite possible, for example, that allowing for some offsetting productivity improvements and the !phasing-in' of the 35-hour week over 5 years, the increase in unit costs in any one year could be 11 to 2 per cent. 
The figures of 12 per cent, 15 per cent and 25 per cent, as the increase in costs, have been bandied around by various Ministers. Also sums of money of the order of S3.5m have been mentioned. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is always a delight to follow the doyen of private enterprise and land developers from the electorate of Bennelong. It almost saves one the trouble of preparing a speech because there are so many fallacies in the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  that one could spend 10 minutes tearing them to pieces. However I do not intend to do that because there are some thoughts of my own which I would like to contribute. Firstly, I should like to draw the attention of the honourable member to one fallacy in his very last statement which showed that he could not, in his own thinking, divorce houses from land. He could not conceive a proposition in which the land would belong to the Commonwealth and the house would belong to the person who had built it. He is not aware that the greatest cost component in most cases of ownership of houses is the land content.  His  mind is so blocked up after many years of being an arch-conservative that these sorts of thoughts would not register with him. 
I thought that the honourable member's statement that there was no housing shortage in Australia today was rather delightful. He substantiated that statement by saying that the only problem was in the low cost housing area for the low wage earner. I recall the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  stating that the waiting lists for all the State housing commissions total something of the order of 90,000 to 96,000 families. If that is not a significant proportion of the Australian community I am afraid that I have lost as much touch with the community as has the honourable member for Bennelong. He backed up that figure by saying that there would be a need for some 100,000 blocks of land to be purchased by the Government if we were to adopt the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Reid. Therefore he is satisfied that there is a shortage of the order of 90,000 to 96,000 houses in Australia. This is after 23 years of Liberal Government rule. 
The honourable member has a simple solution for all these things. Anything that is new to him, anything that is away from the usual run of the mill things to which he has been used to dealing with, he wipes completely off the slate by saying that it is pure blatant socialism. For many years Australia has endeavoured to live in a free enterprise society. It seems to me that the problems which exist today are not new problems but problems that have existed for all of that time, so free enterprise society does not work. I do not think the honourable member is serious when he simply wipes these things off by calling them socialist proposals. 
One could almost repeat the speeches made in the past on the same subject in this chamber and they would be as relevant today as they were when they were made because nothing has changed in the intervening period and nothing has been done to make the position any easier for those who seek to avail themselves of the basic requirement of those who live in a civilised community, and that is shelter from the elements. The practice has grown in Australia of home ownership and the myth of the security that home ownership allegedly brings has been fostered by successive Liberal-Country Party governments. I doubt whether many people actually seek ownership of their homes simply for the pleasure of owning a home. Rather do I believe that the search is for security of tenure. I believe this is what people seek more than ownership - the security of tenure. The statistics made available to the Committee by the honourable member for Hughes on the repayment of loans points to the foolishness of people owning their own homes in the present financial set-up. The honourable member stated that a $15,000 loan at 8i per cent interest required a repayment with interest over 15 years of $22,000. That, to me, is the real crux of the problem. By fostering this myth of the desirability of people owning their own homes the various government bodies in the States are moving their responsibility to provide low cost homes on to the people who are not only lumbered with high interest costs and high prices for land but also with rates and the cost of maintaining their properties. 
The cost of land is of great concern to people who wish to own their own home. 
Here again we could, perhaps, allude to the slavish adherence to the free enterprise system adopted by governments of the political colour of this Government. This not only allows the manipulation of the land supply but it encourages such manipulation. Developers alone can decide when large sections of land come forward for subdivision. No local authority can encourage, persuade or force owners of large tracts of land zoned residential to bring that land forward for subdivision. So developers retain land as broad acres until other factors make it more than profitable to subdivide and sell. That action frustrates the law of supply and demand. Demand is created by withholding supply. Prices soar as a result of this manipulation. 
The neglect of the Commonwealth Government - and let us not forget that we have been inflicted with a Liberal-Country Party coalition government for 20 years - and the ineptness of State governments has meant that our largest cities have been allowed to develop at the whim of the -and developers and without essential services such as roads, drainage and sewerage being developed to keep pace. When the situation is so desperate that the danger of insurrection almost exists, the problem is solved by governments legislating to force developers to construct roads and drains and now, at least in Melbourne, to provide sewerage reticulation in housing estates. However, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works cannot provide trunk services even to Westmeadows, North Fawkner, Campbellfield and other places in my electorate, all within 9 miles of the Melbourne General Post Office. This situation in itself aggravates the cost of land because if the Commonwealth were sincere in its endeavours to have the cities serviced it would make funds available to statutory bodies to do the work. It would make funds available either as a direct grant or at a very reasonable and nominal rate of interest. However, by placing the onus on the real estate developer the buyer nf the house now finds that he buys not only a block of land but he buys also the services such as roads, drainage, and now sewerage reticulation. Because he is buying all of the services from the developer - and the services are provided out of loan funds or moneys belonging to the developer - the buyer of the land pays the current -.ate of interest, which once again is determined by the Federal Government, on the work that is done, and there arises the profit motive. Were the Commonwealth Government to make funds available to these statutory authorities to do the work the cost of land would be reduced considerably. 
The proposition put forward by the honourable member for Reid is sound and would enable public land development corporations to be set up in co-operation with the States to acquire the necessary land. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  was astounded at this proposition. He did not think it was possible. He believed that a large sum of money - he mentioned $2,000m - would be required to acquire the land. I am sure that he is overlooking the fact that the land will be sold- that people want that land and are prepared to pay money for it. So the availability of the money is no problem at all. The money exists. The only problem at the moment is that it is in the hands of a multitude of people. It could very soon be placed in the hands of one body. The difficulty caused because of the multiplicity of owners of the land ceases to exist when the land is placed under the ownership of the one body. Many things such as zoning and land use become much easier when the land is under the ownership of one person, and this is the sort of situation that the amendment envisages. I support the amendment. It deserves the support of this Committee. It should be approved and agreed to by this Committee and it should be reported to the House as this Committee's proposal on the estimates for the Department of Housing. 
It is not my intention in any way at all to agree with what has been said by honourable members from the other side of the chamber, lt seems to me, after listening to the speeches made by honourable members on the Government side, that Parkinson's law acts to a large extent in the armed Services of Australia. It seems that, as Parkinson's law says, once a position exists it is very very necessary to spend a lot of time and a lot of money justifying the existence of that position. 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  treated us to his usual dissertation about the Australian Army. I wonder whether the Minister for the Army would have spoken that way had the Communist Party accepted his application to join it. This debate revolves around the proposed expenditure of $ 1,300m for defence as opposed to the amount of $l,200m which was appropriated last year. In other words, there is to be an increase of $100m this year in the defence vote. That SI 00m could have been used to provide for the community many of the things that the community, and experts, believe that the community needs. It could provide things of great value to the community. The enormous expenditure of $ 1,300m which is, as I have said, an increase of $100m over last year's vote, is to be shared among the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. Part of this amount is to be given to an Army that is supplemented by young men taken from the community against their will, placed into military establishments for 10 weeks, where they are bastardised and brutalised by the people in these places. The excuse that is given for this treatment is: This will make men of them*. 
Next to his mother, I have known my son for longer than anybody else on the face of this earth. I have no doubt that at almost 21 years of age he does not need the help of some corporal in the armed Services to make him a man. I would be very disappointed in his mother if she had not taught him manliness over the years. Young men are taken from the community, from their occupations where they are performing worthwhile tasks, and for a 10- week period some of them are driven to distraction. After this they are put to work, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said, picking up pieces of paper. The community ought to be told - this ought to be well known to the people of Australia - how we are training these men to defend this country, which is what the Government says they are being trained for. Let me tell honourable members, and through the radio let me tell those who are listening to these proceedings, how these young men are being trained. 
I refer to the case of one young man in particular, a very fit, very healthy and very vigorous young man. He was taken from the community and from his job because he happened to be born on a particular day of the year. He has been brutal lised and bastardised and, as our Minister for the Army has told us, is now training to be a fighting man. For the next 10 weeks the Army taught him to use a typewriter. Well, we will sleep safely in our beds knowing that young men of this country are being trained to throw typewriters and filing cabinets at those who come to attack us. This young man is being trained to use a typewriter and to understand the Army's filing system and the Army's accounting system. But the community thinks that it can sleep safely in bed because this young man has been taken from a community and trained, as the community believes, to be a soldier. 
If Australia faces a threat - and no one believes that it does - I have not heard any government supporters, these jingoistic sabre rattling, drum thumping members on the other side of the Chamber - tell us who is going to attack us. When we ask them to please be more explicit, Government supporters say:'lt is them;it is they'. I suppose 'they' is more explicit than them'. 
My honourable friend from Wilmot says that it may be the Martians. Perhaps we should consider whether the people of Macao or the people from one of the very small principalities of Europe intend to attack us, because nobody has identified our enemy. We have heard about China for so many years. We have been shown the red arrows on the map. But the history of China as far back as one would care to go is that 
China as a nation has never yet moved outside of its traditional boundaries in an aggressive manner. So no-one can point out our enemy. If honourable members opposite cannot do that then of course they cannot advise us how we ought to protect ourselves from someone who cannot be identified. It seems to me that if people in other countries are building themselves up to a position where they can attack Australia we would be in a better position if we knew about this at an early date. Therefore I suggest to the Minister who is responsible for the operations of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation that he take these people out into the world and let them examine other countries rather than let them interfere with my telephone and interrupt my telephone conversations with little clicks and knocks at all times of the night as they tape record telephone conversations. They would perform a better function if they endeavoured to establish who our potential enemies are likely to be. 
This country would be better served by this Government, which is a war mongering government and there can be no doubt about that, identifying who our potential enemy might be rather than have it pay $300m for 24 aircraft parked at Fort Worth which will not fly anyhow. The United States is losing these aircraft at the rate of one every 2 weeks in Vietnam, almost to the point where the United States will not fly them any more. We are expected to believe that we can defend our country with this aircraft. So I repeat: Let us identify our potential enemy. 
I did not hear the interjection of the Minister for the Navy but I am sure that it was not worth listening to anyhow. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who for a time was Prime Minister of this country and for a briefer time Minister for Defence, said that in his view - I suppose as Minister for Defence he was speaking with the advice of experts - there was no immediate threat to Australia in the next 10 years. That is a conservative point of view. My own view, supported by incontrovertible evidence, is that the threat will not exist for at least 25 years. In this time would we not be better off building economic and friendly relations with our neighbours instead of, as the member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said, getting up there and belting hell out of them? Does the honourable member for the Northern Territory realise that there are 120 million people living in Indonesia who can row dugout canoes to Australia? Does he not realise that we would be better off living as friends, as I do with my neighbour in the town where I live? I am not constantly aggressive to my neighbour and I am not bristling with arms every time I confront him. Is that not the way we should be living? Is that not the way we should be looking at the world in almost the last quarter of this century? Should we be continuing the jingoistic attitude of the barons of the feudal times? Should we always be arming ourselves? Should we always appear to be aggressive to those around us7 Should we always live in fear of them? The Minister for the Navy is a minister of religion and I am astounded that a man with such a background could endorse a policy of aggression to his fellow man. He and those who support him should learn to Jive in peace with other men. Must they be aggressive? Speaking in this fashion I leave myself open to a charge from the Government parties that 1 do not believe in the defence of this country and that I would sell this country out. I challenge them to say against whom 1 would not defend this country and to whom I would sell it out. Many good men died in the 1939-45 war for a just cause - the defence of this country against the Japanese who wanted our mineral resources. A government of the same political complexion as this Government sold our minerals to them for 10c a ton. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The matter I wish to raise this evening is one which was brought to my attention by certain constituents of mine who are engaged in the wool industry. Normally, it is not my practice1 to engage in debates on rural matters and I would not have spoken tonight were it not for the scandalous situation which has been brought' to my attention. The nation, and certainly primary producers, have always thought that those who call themselves members of the Australian Country Party are the watchdogs of the interests of primary producers. How wrong can you be? The public - that is, the taxpayer-r- and the woolgrower are being fleeced. Only the wool brokers are riding in on the sheep's back. 
Let me quote the selling brokers' service charges for 1971-72. I trust that, honourable members will take note of the . amounts mentioned. These amounts are charges made by a wool broker against a , grower for services rendered. The Commonwealth meets half the cost and the grower meets the other half. The charge for interlotting is $1.30 a bale which equals lc per kilo,  i  cent of which is paid by the Commonwealth and  i  cent paid by the grower. For bulk classing wool the broker receives 6.17 cents per kilo of which 3.085 cents is paid by the grower and 3.085 cents by the Commonwealth - once again, the taxpayer. For star class wool the broker receives 3.35 cents per kilo. Once again, 1.765 cents is paid by the grower and 1.765 cents by the taxpayer. 
These charges and the alleged service are all part of the Government's .price averaging plan, commonly known as PAP, for the wool industry. In all fairness, the theory of this plan probably is sound but the practice is rotten through and through. Because this Government continues to insist upon and support the inefficient so-called free enterprise system, private brokers are left to sell wool on behalf of the growers. Let me explain what happens from the time of shearing to the disposal by auction of the clip. As I understand it, each shed usually has a wool classer working in the shed as the sheep are shorn. He classes the wool as it is rolled and baled. This wool is forwarded to a broker whose task it is to warehouse it and offer it for sale at auction. As I understand it further, wool is offered either as star lots - that is, lots in excess of 4 bales of like quality wool from one grower - or interlotted, where lots of less than 4 bales of like quality from various growers are added together and offered as large lots. Or, if wool cannot be offered in either of these terms, the bales are ostensibly opened and the wool is re-classed, on occasion re-branded, and again offered as large lots. 
But here comes the rub. The record will show that prior to the introduction of PAP, large quantities of wool were sold as inter.lotted lots, much was sold as star lots and little was re-classed. However, since the introduction of PAP in July 1970 the practice has grown for brokers to offer star lots in much the same proportion as before, but interlotting is now almost unknown whilst bulk classing has become standard practice. An attempt must be made by the broker on 3 separate occasions to match 1, 2 or 3 bale lots with other similar lots to establish an interlotted lot. If he cannot, or rather claims he cannot, this wool is bulk classed. 
Let us examine the mechanics of what happens. Star lots attract a payment of 3.53c per kilo to the broker - half taxpayer, half grower. Bulk classed lots attract 6.17c per kilo - half taxpayer, half grower. So there is no incentive to encourage brokers to practise interlotting. In fact, the incentive exists to bulk class wool. This appears to be what is happening in the wool industry today. No check is made as to whether attempts are made to interlot. No check is made as to whether the broker physically reclasses wool which has been classed at the shearing shed anyhow. The broker's word is accepted on these issues. Therefore, the bulk of wool is marketed as bulk classed. Evidence exists that brokers without facilities to bulk class are claiming to bulk class wool. The evidence shows further that wool is removed from the grower's bale, rebaled, rebranded and put up as bulk classed wool without any attempt being made to interlot it. 
An undeserved profit of 5.17c per kilo may not sound like very much money, but it is $6.72 per bale or $67 per 10 bales or $672 per 100 bales. If one adds that up for the number of bales of wool marketed each year, one can see how the taxpayer is being fleeced, the grower is having the wool pulled over his eyes and the broker is riding on the sheep's back. There is no suggestion that every broker engages in this nefarious practice, but the profits of these wool brokers have been very high recently. For example, Elder Smith-Goldsbrough Mort Ltd showed a profit last year of $5m. By any standard, that is not a bad profit. One wonders how much the Australian taxpayer and the wool grower contributed unnecessarily to that profit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Did a Royal Australian Air Force BAC-111 aircraft land at Tullamarine Airport at approximately 5 p.m. on Sunday, 3rd September 1972. 
If so, (a) did the aircraft carry only 2 ladies as passengers together with their luggage, (b) what was the port of origin for the journey and (c) what was the business and identity of the 2 passengers. 
Having listened carefully to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  I think it would be very difficult to elaborate further on his remarks because he has covered this Bill very well, as he should do, because he is very knowledgeable on these matters. I notice that the Government has provided no speakers to follow the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Therefore the Government must be fully aware of the deficiencies of this legislation. The honourable member for Hindmarsh finished on the point that we have numerous Acts dealing with this subject and that cross references must be made in an endeavour to find out who is covered by which Act and which Commonwealth employee finds himself covered in many places. The definitions in the legislation are very sloppy. They are open to misinterpretation and do not see people as the community sees them. As has been explained by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, in the original Act a dependant is simply described as the spouse, father, mother, step-father, step-mother, step-daughter and so on whereas there is a much broader and deeper interpretation of the term dependant'. 
As I see it, people become employees not of their own choice; they become employees because of economic circumstances. They sell part of the time that belongs to them through the day to someone else in return for money which, in turn, they use to solve their economic problems. Because of the situation that exists I can never go along with the proposition that a person who is injured whilst doing that should ever stand in any worse position than if he had not been injured. Yet the very legislation that is before this House for amendment tonight does exactly that. The Bill which the Government has introduced says that remuneration for an employee who has been injured during the course of his employment:   . . docs not include a reference to a payment in respect of overtime or a reference to an allowance that is intermittent or is payable in respect of special expenses incurred or likely to be incurred by the employee in respect of his employment. 
As I see it - I can be corrected if I am wrong - -if an employee becomes injured the purpose of the Bill is to take that employee back to his standard award wage. It is a known fact in industry that not very many people work for an award wage. The overtime, as provided in the Bill, applies to time worked on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday. It makes no mention of any time worked in excess of the recognised hours of employment a day. So if an employee, prior to his injury, consistently works a number of hours in excess of 8 a day, or whatever number of hours his day may consist of, and he is earning a rate over and above his standard award wage, the Bill apparently does not regard that as overtime, it regards overtime as any duty on shifts or on Saturday, Sunday or other holidays, and excess travelling time. The principal Act does not mention overtime at all. 
As I mentioned, an employee does not become an employee of his own choice. Rather, it is a condition thrust upon him by economic circumstances. As the only way in which he can resolve his economic circumstances is to find himself in the employ of another person - in this case the Commonwealth - I cannot be convinced that because things happened to him and injured him whilst in the employ of another person he should stand in a different position. The philosophy applied by those who prepared this legislation, and all compensation legislation, is bad. The only attempt - I trust that after the end of this year it will be on the statute book - that has ever been made in this country to reconcile that philosophy with the situation that exists is the rather voluminous document that was prepared by the honourable member for Hindmarsh and submitted as an amendment to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill which was discussed last year. But this Government has seen fit not to incorporate all of the amendments that were suggested, lt has taken only some. 
This Bill which purports to rectify the situation makes the situation even worse, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh said. The language used in the Bill is not very precise. In my opinion, it has been hastily prepared, lt should nol be accepted by this Parliament and incorporated into the Act because of the effect it would have on so many working people in this country. I know that my colleague the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  wishes to make some comments on this Bill and, in deference to him, I will conclude on that note so that the time that was unofficially available to me will be available to him to make his contribution. 
May I preface my remarks by firstly congratulating you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your election as  Chairman  of Committees. I would be pleased if you would convey my congratulations to the  Speaker  on attaining his high office. The business that we are endeavouring to debate at the moment is the legislative programme outlined by  His Excellency  the Governor-General acting, of course, on the advice of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  We have heard from the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  He was described by one of his own colleagues as being pedestrian and slow. After listening to his speech tonight I think that that is a very fair summation of the honourable gentleman. He spoke and always does seem to speak in terms which confuse defence and offence. Neither he nor any predecessor in the office he held prior to 2nd December, including the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  could ever advise this House against whom we must immediately defend ourselves either now or in the foreseeable future. You would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as the honourable gentleman would know, that last year $ 1,300m of taxpayers' money was spent on defence. Yet nobody on the Opposition side of the House can tell us for what purpose it was spent The honourable member for Farrer spoke with horror about the people to whom he is apparently ideologically opposed, but he neglected to tell us about 'our great and powerful ally* and about the obscenities of the Vietnam war caused by the United States of America. It seems to me that all he has ever said on the question of defence is that, without any cause or reason at all, the 
Australian nation must tag along at the coat tails of what he and his colleagues constantly refer to as 'our great and powerful ally'. 
It is interesting to read the history of 'our great and powerful ally', as he describes the United States of America, and its entry into the war in 1941. The case that the then Prime Minister of Australia, John Curtin, took to America for the intervention of America in the Pacific region was - he was quite correct in what he said - that technically it was to the advantage of the United States of America to defend Australia and to prevent it from becoming a base for Japan to attack the west coast of America. I suppose that if the same circumstances existed again we could rely on the United States of America. But I wonder whether, if the circumstances were different, we could or whether we would be attracting attention with the various military installations that the previous Government allowed to be established in this country. 
I found the Speech by His Excellency yesterday to be in marked contrast to the first speech of a Governor-General I heard as a member of Parliament. On that previous occasion, if my memory serves me correctly, it took about 59 seconds or something short of a minute to describe the programme for the 27th Parliament. I well remember the last words that the Governor-General spoke to us. He said: 
And I now leave you in the hands of Divine Providence. 
I immediately interpreted that as meaning: God help you. Over the next 3 years that was the case. This time the Labour Government clearly outlined a forthright, progressive and ambitious legislative programme. I can assure the House that the initiative and courage needed will not be lacking. Today we witnessed the puny efforts of the Opposition endeavouring to attack at question time. It was like David trying to bring down Goliath by lashing him across the shins with an ostrich feather. The compass of the Government's programme is in itself a condemnation of the previous Goverment. Now that it is in Opposition its members must surely reflect that their inactivity was just not acceptable to the Australian voting community which soundly rejected them. Again the wisdom of the Australian electorate was manifest. 
Instead of being the bastion for the maintenance of the status quo the national parliament is now the initiator of reform - a role which we in the Labor Party have always believed to be its proper course. 
To highlight further the inadequacies of the previous Government and the collective inadequacies of its members we now witness the ludicrous spectacle of an enormous number of questions on notice which either should have been answered by previous Ministers or else the answers should be well known to them. We who are now the Government are of a like mind that the energies and wisdom of this House - indeed, these Houses of Parliament - shall be directed to correcting the mistakes of the past 23 years which I characterise as a generation without popular government. We promise open government and that executive rule to which we have become accustomed will be a thing of the past. 
I wish to comment on some of the expressions used by previous speakers. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  who unfortunately is not now in the chamber, pathetically endeavoured to resurrect the issue pronounced dead by the electors on 2nd December 1972. That was the communist can. He spat out the word 'socialist' as if it were a book declared obscene by the self appointed censor who is the Chief Secretary of his own State of Victoria. The more he spoke about this matter the more obvious it became that he should have spoken to us about something of which he does have some knowledge, and that is revaluation. But it seemed that he ducked that issue. When he sat on this side of the House he endeavoured to encourage his own Government to take action on the valuation of the currency. That Government declined to do so. So rather than raise the question now when his own Party stands condemned by the action of this Government, he resorted to the time worn trick of pulling out the communist can and kicking it around. It must slowly filter through to him and to honourable members now sitting on the other side of the House that they tried this in 1972 and the Australian people rejected it. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  the champion of the peanut growers, like the troglodytes who sit around him in that corner of the House, spoke amongst other things of the plight of the wheat grower. He does not seem to remember that he is a member of the political party which has been in government, in coalition with the Liberal Party, for 23 years. Whilst it was in government it made no move on the first advance payment to wheat growers. For 15 years it remained at SI. 10 a bushel. In the few short weeks that it has been in office this Government took the initiative and increased that by 10c to $1.20 a bushel. Yet these people come here ostensibly to represent the country people. They must confess that they have done nothing to help the country grower. It was they who imposed wheat quotas. It was they who were then embarrassed when a contract arrived to supply wheat to China and the ground had not been tilled and the seed had not been sown, lt was not possible to fulfil that contract from Australian wheat stocks and it looked as though stocks would have to be bought from overseas to fulfil it That is a disgraceful situation. I have never been one to be motivated by religion but I believe it to be the grossest sin for anybody to refuse to produce food in a world where half the population goes to bed hungry every night. That is the record of the former Government. 
The honourable member for Maranoa also spoke about exporting our country, digging it up and carting it away at the rate of 10c a ton. He said that if the contract had not been written in United States dollars it would not have been written at all. In the area of defence and in the area of selling our country these people still have not learned that we have dignity as a nation and we do not have to drag along at somebody else's coat tails. What really happened in the export of minerals from Australia was that a few smart salesmen came to town, conned our smart businessmen, wrote the contracts in United States dollars and dollar signs went up in their eyes like cash registers because they thought that they had a winner. They did not expect the American currency to take the downturn it took, and they were hooked. But there would have been no payment to the Treasury of this country if it had come off and they had made money out of it. They are squealing and belly-aching now because they are bad businessmen. They were caught because they are bad businessmen. Now they are saying that the rest of the community should pay. Of course, if these people were sound businessmen they would know that when contracts are written they generally include a rise and fall clause. They usually include clauses that cover contingencies. Did. these contracts have such safeguards? Apparently not, because, as I said, a couple of smart salesmen came to town. They filled their bags with money and they caught the first train out of town the next morning, and the local businessmen still have their heads spinning. They do not know which way the salesmen went. Yet we find honourable members like the honourable member for Maranoa wanting to defend the folly of the people who signed contracts expressed in United States dollars. He referred to the current account now being in credit. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  dealt with this question very fully. 
I have been referring to the wrong honourable member. That shows how much I have heard from the honourable gentleman whom I have in mind. It was  Mr Hallett,  to call him by name. I cannot even recall the electorate that he represents. That is how interested I am. 
That is much better. May I correct myself and say that where I referred to the honourable member for Maranoa I should have referred to the honourable member for Canning. He made the comment, and the honourable member for Chifley elaborated on it, that the balance of payments was healthy. He used the expression: The books are balanced for the first time'. I wish he could tell us who has been keeping them out of balance for the last 23 years. I must confess that that contribution to the debate by the honourable member for Canning is not constructive. It is probably a nice little gallop around the course, but it is not doing what we in the Australian Labor Party promised to do in Government, and that is something constructive. 
The Governor-General made known to us the legislative programme, the blueprint, for the next 3 years. He said: 
Legislation will be introduced to repeal needlessly provocative penal sanctions In the Conciliation and Arbitration Act Amalgamation of trade unions will be facilitated. A committee of inquiry will undertake a thorough investigation of all aspects of industrial' relations. 
That paragraph is of great significance not only to the working people but also to the industrialists in this country, those who employ those who work. If the people who made up the previous Government of this country had given the matter of industrial relations any consideration, and if they had looked into what industrial relations are all about, half of the provocative acts that have been committed over a number of years in the past would not have been committed. Those who claim that we have industrial anarchy, of course, would be quite wrong in that assumption. The field of industrial relations is a very deep and a very broad one. I am very proud indeed to be the supporter of a government that for the first time intends to have a scientific look at the question of industrial relations and not just treat it in the way that it has been treated ever since the industrial revolution in Britain. Ever since one man has employed another employees have had to endure employers whose attitude has been to say: 'I own the show. I wield the power. The worker will do what I want him to do. If he does not I will bludgeon him into doing it. If I cannot bludgeon him into doing it I will get the State to bludgeon him into doing it for me'. That is exactly what the conservative governments over the years have always done. They have used the power of the State to bludgeon men to make them work. The honourable member for Balaclava spoke about the work ethic. I am not quite sure what he means by that term. He did not elaborate on it, so I do not think he knows either. 
The honourable member for Balaclava agreed with me one day that the trouble in this country was not the workers but management. He said that those in management should be sacked, and t think he was correct. Unless there is a scientific and all-embracing inquiry into the question of industrial relations, the underlying problems will never come to the surface. There is a conflict of interest between those who employ and those who are employed. Their very nature brings them to a conflict. The conflict is not solved simply by drawing up Conciliation and Arbitration Acts of Parliament and placing in them penal provisions so that if men do not do things that their employers wish them to do they may be fined or imprisoned, when the same Acts never carry penal provisions against employers. It is a fact that employers have committed about 3,000 industrial breaches for which they were never prosecuted by the previous Government. Yet the previous Government was very quick to place in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the necessary machinery to make it very easy for an employer to take action against his employees if they did not do what he wanted them to do. The employees who were condemned were condemned in absentia. There was never a hearing. On a complaint by the employer a bans clause was written into the appropriate award. I repeat that unless that sort of situation is moved away from, there will continue to be resentment from the work force and a refusal by the work force to accept its role. Nobody is suggesting that it should accept that role without any equivocation. Workers have a right to participate in the fruits of their labour. This right is denied to them at the moment. 
Legislation was introduced in the last session of Parliament which makes virtually impossible the amalgamation of trade unions. It was pretty obvious why this legislation was introduced. Once again it was introduced because of the fears the previous Government held about what would happen if these hybrid monsters, the trade unions, were to come together. It must be remembered that over 100 years ago at Tolpuddle even 6 men coming together constituted a threat to authority. It horrifies honourable members on the other side of the House and interests that they represent to think of 100,000 men coming together in one union. They are afraid that such a union would represent power and would challenge the power that they and their political bosses pretend to wield over the whole community, such power being maintained by the forces of the State. That position will be changed, and I should think it will be changed very quickly, so that the amalgamation of unions will be made easier and the efficiency of the working section of the community will be increased. That in turn will be in the best interests of industrial relations, even if nothing else. 
I commend the whole proposed legislative programme to the House. The GovernorGeneral should be complimented on the contents of the address he delivered, and the Government should certainly be congratulated for exercising a God-given commonsense in drawing up for the implementation of this Parliament those proposals that the GovernorGeneral outlined. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Does the Commonwealth police force maintain liaison with the various State police forces? Can he confirm that at least one mainland State police force has for at least 6 years maintained a file on the violent activities of the extreme right wing organisation known as the Ustasha? Will he inform the House of the relevant details of any files held by State police forces? 
This, of course, is a very interesting debate. It has been very interesting to listen to albeit that it seems that all members in this House are now agreed that votes for 18-year-olds are a proposition that should be put into effect. Yet not so very long ago, in fact I think somewhat less than a year ago, those who are now in Opposition were sitting on the Government side of the House and opposing the proposition that 18-year-olds should have votes just as vehemently as they are now sup porting it. I am just wondering what has brought about the change of mind. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr. Turner),  jogged my memory somewhat when he objected to the honourable member for Bowan  (Mr Keogh)  using the word 'hypocricy'. He made the comment that this is one word that should be struck from the parliamentary vocabulary. I would remind the honourable member for Bradfield and all those who object to the word being used - quite frankly I do not object to its being used, and if it applies to me I think it should be used against me - that it is in biblical in origin. Whilst my own vocabulary might not be as great as that of William Shakespeare I have searched the dictionaries and I cannot find another single word that describes the situation so well. It seems to me that it connotes that those who argue consistently upon a point, on a change of wind and for no other reason can argue just as consistently against it. I can find no other word, and if the honourable member for Bradfield could enlighten me I would be pleased to have that enlightenment. 
It seems to me from all of the debate I have heard in the short time I have been in this House around this whole question of the franchise for people that I have hot yet heard a' very sound argument why : 18-year-old people in this country should not have the right to vote. Arguments were put forward by the former Minister for the Interior, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  I well remember that very strongly and very vehemently he poured out from the table a lot of diatribe about the Commonwealth Government not having the right to force 18- year-olds into doing things. It is significant that the honourable member was a member of the government which forced young men against their will to go to Vietnam to die or be maimed. When it came to a situation where he and those who advise him politically through his Party felt that a franchise given to 18-year-olds could place his Party's right to rule at risk, it was a very bad thing to force people to do things. But it has already been brought out in this debate - and if it had not it should be - that the mere fact that people are now being given the right to enrol is not forcing anybody to do anything. Of course, after they have enrolled, they must vote. But giving them the right to enrol does not force them to do anything. They may choose to enrol or not to enrol .and those who wish to enrol should have that right. 
The previous Government, , which is now sitting in Opposition, obviously has had a change of heart because the last words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  were: 'We support the Bill'. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition commented that when we were in Opposition we encouraged the 18-year-olds to come forward and oppose what he called 'the system'. Now the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is saying that we are asking the 18-year-olds to support the system, rather than oppose it. Of course, the point that has escaped the honourable member's mind is that there has been a change of administration and we know that it will be an administration that will be fair and equitable to alt in our community. It will not be the discriminatory sort of system which operated under the previous Government - a discriminatory administration that was selective in its choice of favours. 
The honourable member referred to the young people supporting the Liberal Party concept of free enterprise. He said that youth supports free enterprise in the concept of individuality. I agree with that. But I would invite the honourable member, or for that matter, any honourable member opposite, to show me where in our society today there exists free enterprise. If they can show me that, under the Liberal-Country Party Government, there was no collusion amongst sellers, that the market place operated properly and that there was respect for individuals, to use the colloquialism, I will go he. The arguments put forward by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  were incongruous in view of arguments that he elaborated on last year. He said there had been no clamour from the 18-year-olds to be given the vote. He said that people in South Australia who had the right to enrol had not exactly rushed forward to enrol. That statement only substantiates the point I have already made: It is a voluntary proposition, as to whether one enrols. Those who do want to enrol can enrol and those who do not are not required to do so. 
Honourable members opposite always stand as the great champions of the individual, yet for many years they denied 18-year-olds the right to enrol. The Australian Labor Party says: 'Give the individual the right to enrol'. So, we are the champions of the individual rather than this great, amorphous association called the Liberal-Country Party coalition. I also believe that one of the reasons why the Liberal Party maintained the position that it did in the past is because the councils of the Liberal Party are made up of elderly gentlemen and  dear  old ladies who sit around and deliberate on all matters. This is one of the reasons why the Liberal Party is now in opposition. These people could see a threat to their position if 18-year-olds were in fact able to come forward and cast their votes as to who should be governing this country. The question could be posed: Does the Liberal Party fear young people? Is that why it has opposed giving the vote to 18-year-olds in the past? I believe that the Liberal Party does fear young people. 
There has been talk of politics being introduced into high schools. If people want to join a political party my party - the great and marvellous Australian Labor Party - makes membership open to those who are 16 years of age and over. So, we do hot worry about young people joining political parties and entering into political discussions, whether it be in their high schools, universities or anywhere else. We always hear from the conservatives in our community that politics should not enter into high schools or local councils. I have even heard a member in this House say that politics should not be discussed in this chamber. I ask you - where do we go from there? Who should speak about politics? Should politicians discuss politics with politicians or, in fact, are politics what people are all about and ire people what politics are all about? Let us get rid of the old shibboleth that politics are something that should never be discussed in public. In my view and in the view of my colleagues in the Australian Labor Party it is the very place that politics should be discussed. It is the very subject that should occupy the minds of the people because all the decisions that affect their lives are political decisions taken by political parties in a place of politics such as this. If we are going to stifle this sort of discussion among the people, this country of ours will have a very sorry future. 
It is quite incredible to listen to debates such as this and realise that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill and yet puts up 13 speakers to debate it 
Yes, that is correct; to agree with it. It seems to me that there is only one reason for this action and that is to take up the time of the House when it could well be used on matters of far more significance to the people of Australia. As 1 have said, one year ago, the gentlemen who were sitting on the government side of the House - perhaps they were not all the same gentlemen who now sit in opposition - spoke on this subject and some of them were quite vehement in their opposition to it. I am wondering what is the reason for their change in attitude. 1 am wondering whether those who now come forward from the Opposition side to  support  this measure did not have the opportunity to speak so strongly in their party room when they were in government. So, they can now come out as heroes and say: 'We support giving the vote to 18-year-olds and we always have. We would have supported it 5 years ago'. If they supported it 5 years ago, why did they not have the strength to convince their Government that that decision should have been taken. But they did not do that; they just like to come into this House to grandstand on the issue. What sort of criteria are used to determine the vexed question of adulthood? What marvellous wisdom descends upon somebody who reaches the age of 21 years? 
Of course, the same thing could be said about those who reach 18 years of age. What are the criteria? What is the yardstick? How do we determine that somebody suddenly becomes wise? if we care to go back through history we find that at different times people in differing situations and countries were regarded quite differently to the way we regard people today. For example, the Pharaohs of Egypt and the Caesars of ancient Rome regarded people as being of adulthood when they attained the age of 14. Perhaps that had something to do with physical rather than mental maturity but 1 am not prepared to enter into a debate on that; I just point out the facts. There has been argument not over the last 5 years but over many centuries - perhaps 20 or more centuries - as to what was the appropriate age for people to be given the right to enter into the determination of the affairs of their country. 
The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  quoted from a committee report and claimed that the argument that because a man was old enough to fight and die for his country, he should automatically gain the right to vote was fallacious. I suppose some of these arguments are hackneyed. But it is still an historical fact that, throughout the centuries, men and women who were eligible to serve their country in a military capacity were also regarded as being adult enough to do many other things in the community. I hark back to my earlier statement about the Pharaohs of Egypt and the Caesars of Rome. The legionnaires of Rome were, on average, 14 to 18 years of age. These were the men of that time who were given the right to engage in taking some decisions for their countries, apart from the decision to kill. 
The honourable member is a farmer. I have seen people much younger than that working on farms. If he and his conservative companions were in government and had their way and we were not in opposition to their thoughts, they would still have children working in the coal mines. That is how enlightened those conservative troglodytes opposite are. Despite the education system evolved by the backward Liberal Party, the reactionary Country Party and the nonentity called the Democratic Labor Party, people today are far more advanced in their thinking than the previous Government ever was. People have emerged from the jungle and the mire into which they were forced. They have emerged with greater vigour, greater understanding and greater inquisitiveness than their predecessors. They are better equipped and should be allowed to develop to the maximum. These things are all relative. 
I support the proposition that 18-year-olds should be enabled to vote. If it were suggested that the voting age should be 14 years I probably would agree with that, because 1 do not know that there is any proper yardstick by which to determine at which age people should have the vote. 1 would not give some members sitting opposite a vote even if they were 75 years of age because they just do not have the mental capacity to sort things out. 
I was not speaking about the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  If people are given the right to vote it is obligatory on the whole system to give them the further right to discuss the matters upon which they vote. The conservative members sitting on the Opposition benches almost certainly have never visited a high school in their electorates. If they have, then I would invite them to visit some of the high schools in my electorate and, incidentally, some of the Catholic colleges in my electorate. 
My word it would be; they need some salvation. Believe me, if they want to hear enlightened political debate it is of no use their sitting in this place listening to themselves talk. Of course, they will learn a lot from listening to Government supporters. 1 frequently visit high schools and Catholic secondary colleges in my electorate. If members opposite did likewise they would have to face an inquisition by the young people. It is easy for them to sit in this House and to scoff and laugh, but people in the community regard these matters seriously. I would suggest that the 16 to 18-year-olds in our secondary schools could come into this House and take on the whole Opposition and do it like a dinner. Young people have a great capacity to learn and to understand. They take an interest in what is going on around them. This was made manifest in the results of the last Federal election. The community at large no longer is prepared to be persuaded by the hollow, archaic arguments that are constantly presented by the Opposition and found to be fallacious. This is exactly why members opposite are in Opposition. 
We are debating whether 18-year-olds should be entitled to vote. We are not talking about anyone gaining any political advantage from this proposal. If we were I could name several people in my electorate who, for a variety of reasons, I should like to disfranchise. They are the people who did not have the wisdom to vote for me but who, for some misguided reason, voted for my opponents. There were not many of them. This matter should not be resolved on the basis of whether there will be a political advantage to the Australian Labor Party or to the other insignificant political parties in Australia but rather on the basis of whether it is fair, just and equitable that Australians should have the right to engage in every aspect of their social and political lives. The only way in which this can be determined is to remove this archaic, mandatory qualification of 21 years. This Bill represents a breakthrough. It seems that the age will be reduced to 18. This brings me to a small point. My son did not have the opportunity to vote in the last Federal election because he turned 21 after the rolls had closed. He is looking forward to having his first vote in the Victorian State election this year. This will mean the end of the Liberal regime in Victoria. Also my daughter, who is already 18 years of age, looks like getting her first vote. 
That is so. With 2 stalwarts like my son and daughter voting, I serve notice on the Liberal Party in Victoria that it has something to worry about. However my son is upset that he does not enjoy a 3-year advantage over his sister. I have persuaded him to my point of view that 18-year- olds should have the right to vote. This legislation represents a breakthrough and we will work down the line. 
We might start from the middle and work outwards. While we are encouraging the young people to be franchised we might have to do something about discouraging the elderly, especially some of the elderly, to be disfranchised. After listening to this debate I put it to the House that there is not much substance in what members of the Opposition have said. I am led to believe that the Bill will be carried unanimously and that Australia will be the fifty-fourth country, if the statistics are correct, to give to 18, 19 and 20-year olds the right to have some say in the determination of their future. 
My question is directed without notice - absolutely no notices - to the Prime Minister. I ask: When he recently visited Indonesia was he correctly reported by a section of the Australian Press which stated that President Suharto was not interested in the concept of a South East Asian regional organisation? 
 The matter before the House is the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973. It is a matter that has been of great concern - not so much the Bill as thelack of provisions in past Bills. Workers compensation is a term of which personally I am not very fond because it carries with it a connotation I will elaborate on later. Compensation for workers when they are injured is a matter that has been of great concern to workmen and to those people in the trade unions who manage the industrial affairs of workmen. It has always been the practice in the past for employers to regard compensation as something that was handed out to a worker almost in terms of largesse. I think nothing would be further from the truth. In fact all that has ever happened in the past until the introduction of this Bill by the Labor Government does not amount to very much. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  tried to make the point that this Bill was the culmination of a train of events that was put into effect by the previous Government. I happened to be here when the previous Government amended its workers compensation legislation. On 2 occasions it brought the matter before this. House and on 2 occasions, as I remember, there was long and very involved debate in this House around the matter that the Government was introducing. Even at that time it was the first amendment to the Act, which could not by any standard be regarded as a good Act, for a very long time. The Australian Labor Party, having taken office only quite recently, has now put into effect those things we told the former Government it should be doing to the Bill it had before the House to amend the Act. In all fairness to the former Government, some notice was taken of the propositions we put to it, and they were incorporated in the Act, but Commonwealth workmen have had to wait until now for the needed innovations and the bringing up to date of the legislation and before they could see before them a Labor Government, which, of course, is pledged to bring about these reforms. 
I mentioned before that I was not very fond of the word 'compensation'. I would not be prepared to put forward another word, but the word 'compensation' seems to carry with it a connotation that it is something less than a right. All work by its very nature is hazardous because it takes a man away from the things he would wish to do or the things he would probably normally do, and in order to satisfy the economic needs of his family he engages in activities that are not necessarily familiar to him. He does this work for a short period of the day and he does not always do it with a great deal of pleasure. If during the course of that work he becomes injured and places himself in a worse position than he would have been in had he not been so engaged, it seems to me that we then say: We will give the fellow some compensation*. It is not a fair deal because there is no way to measure in money some of the inconvenience that workmen and workwomen will suffer in this situation. 
It is also fairly well agreed that people do not of necessity purposely injure themselves but rather that they become injured because of something that is beyond their control. Once again I bring myself back to the position of somebody doing something which he does not necessarily feel like doing but must do in order to satisfy his economic needs. If he becomes injured in such circumstances, my Labor Party colleagues and I cannot understand why such a person should be disadvantaged. Yet that is what has happened in the past. There is no guarantee that it will not happen in the future, but at least we are taking every reasonable step, so far as we can see, to ensure that it does not happen. I can cite other Acts in other Parliaments that are alleged to deal with this matter of workmen's compensation, and I can cite cases of people in Victoria who come to my own office - workmen who have been injured on the job, workmen who have suffered most decidedly because of an injury they have incurred during their employment and who are reduced to an income of about $41 a week. It is a very small payment. They have a long uphill battle. Some of the cases take 6 months, 1 year, 2 years or even 3 years to be determined, and the workman suffers a disadvantage through all that time. 
The Bill that is before the House, so far as is possible at this time, brings the matter into proper perspective in that the disadvantages that a workman, or a workwoman for that matter, may suffer as a result of injuries are minimised. The purpose of the Bill is to make a number of important amendments to the compensation legislation, and these involve a change in the conditions relating to eligibility for compensation in disease cases and some significant changes in the rates and amounts payable under the Act. As well as injury that can occur to a workman, scant attention in the past has been given to industrial disease. In fact there has been very little definition of industrial disease and very little research into it and understanding of it 
Thank you. My learned colleague, who is a medical practitioner, agrees with that. It is true, and it is generally conceded, that people, particularly workmen, die because they have reached a state of old age or from some other cause. Nobody ever seems to take into account the things which occurred to them during perhaps half a century in the employ of another man. Their whole routine has been upset and they have been caused to do things they would not normally do. These men may come down with a disease, perhaps not as exotic as most of the diseases we know, but an industrial illness brought about by their employment, for which of course there is no compensation because we blithely accept the fact that the men were going to die anyhow and that if their work accelerated their death it did not matter. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  was saying in a previous speech tonight, wages and the work force generally are the accepted system through which the wealth of the community is distributed and redistributed. Because of that these people form a very integral part of our economy. Of course it would be quite wrong, both morally and I believe in every other way, to regard a workman as a painter might regard his overalls - in other words, he is there to do a job when a job of work is to be done and, having done the job, he may be cast aside and be expected to remain available until once again it is time for him to be used. 
In this new Act eligibility will be established if the disease or aggravation, etc., arises out of or in the course of the employment, and with any injury a temporary connection with an employer will be sufficient. Adverting to what I said a few moments ago, rather than a situation where the onus is placed on the workman to establish that his injury was caused by his employment, it should be prima facie evidence that his injury or his illness was caused by his employment and it should be the responsibility of some other body to prove otherwise. In other words, he should have an automatic entitlement and not something for which he has to fight. 
The main changes in the rates and amounts of compensation payable under this Act are in respect of compensation for total incapacity where the amount will be increased to the level of the employee's average weekly earnings and will continue at this level during the entire period of the incapacity leaving the worker at no time disadvantaged financially; and in respect of partial incapacity where the compensation will be a weekly amount equal to the difference between the employee's average weekly earnings in his pre-injury employment and the weekly amount he is earning after the injury without any limit on the amount so payable. The Commonwealth will be obliged to provide suitable employment to a partially incapacitated employee or to continue weekly payments on the basis of total incapacity. The payments may be suspended if the employee unreasonably refuses or fails to accept or satisfactorily undertake suitable employment when it is provided. 

 Mr Speaker, the hour is late and there are speakers to follow me. It is not my intention to delay the House any longer than is necessary, especially as the practice of the House provides that the motion for the adjournment will be moved at 10.15 p.m. 1 will limit my remarks to the remaining two or three minutes available before 10.15 p.m. The Bill contains many advantages for employees. An employee who is already receiving superannuation or a defence forces retirement benefits pension will be given the right to request a lump sum payment in redemption of the Commonwealth liability to make weekly payments even if he is totally incapacitated. Many advantages will now become available to the Commonwealth employee. I finish on that note. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Holten)  adjourned. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of concern being expressed in the community at what is interpreted to be a difference in attitude on the part of the Australian Government between French nuclear tests and the tests conducted by the Chinese? Following on his remarks at his Press conference of last Tuesday relating to the jurisdictional aspects of the respective tests, will he make it clear that these comments relate only to our capacity to take legal action and not to the Australian Government's attitude to all forms of atmospheric testing whether conducted by France or China? 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in his usual way put his case for the Opposition in general disagreement with the measure that is before the House. Each time I hear him speak he seems to remind me that 1 have heard the speech so many times before because of the mechanical intonations and the same arguments coming forward. In fact, to paraphrase one far more literary than I, it could even be said that one of his speeches is as tedious as the speeches of 3 other people, and indeed his volume of material is 3 times that required by any other  speaker  to put the same case. He quoted costs increases which occurred during his term of office as a Minister, and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  took him to task about this. It seemed to rile the honourable gentleman to  some extent. During the course of his argument he made reference to the positive action by the Victorian Government so far as the port of Portland is concerned. I am sure that my friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who will be speaking at a later stage in this debate, will explain to the honourable member more clearly and very lucidly how in fact the Liberal Government of ViC.toria has been very derelict in this respect by not providing the ancillary service necessary to transport goods to the port of Portland or to provide the mechanical aids that are necessary to load through that port. So I believe it is unfair and in fact quite wrong to say hat there has been positive action by the Government of Victoria to improve the port if Portland. In fact, by its very neglect every.thing has been done to ensure that the port remains a backwater instead of utilising the very fine harbour that it is for the transport of goods out of that part of Victoria and South Australia. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition poke of the cost of idle time, and at a later stage  during my speech I would like to elaborate on the cost of idle time, too. He said 3 at this was a high cost in the movement of  goods  across the waterfront. The very point that he overlooked is that one of the purposes of the increase in the levy is to ensure that he fund to which it contributes is brought to such a stage that it is able to finance a voluntary retirement scheme for those watersiders who are now redundant and who wish to retire from the waterfront but are not yet eligible for a pension - in other words, voluntarily retired. The honourable gentleman argued against himself when he took that line, as I will point out later. 
This Bill, entitled the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1973, proposes to adjust charges levied under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act 1947-1971. Honourable members should know that in 1967 a change in the status of waterfront workers occurred and these employees ceased to be casual labour and became permanent employees. As such they became entitled to the industrial benefits enjoyed by their brothers and sisters in other industries. Long service leave, sick leave, annual leave, superannuation and other benefits applicable to workers with a constant employer became the right of waterside labour. To overcome the problems created by a succession of employers - masters of ships in port, for instance - a common fund was established to which employers for the time being contributed. That fund has the support of legislation known as the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act. The formula used to determine the payments to that fund is such that the fund remains buoyant enough to meet its liabilities. The formula provides for a charge on employers for each man hour worked. Waterside workers are divided into 3 categories, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition told us. Class A are registered at permanent or continuous ports and work regularly on a weekly basis. Class B waterside workers are employed at continuous nonpermanent ports and class C at non-permanent ports. Class C includes irregular workers. 
For some time there have been difficulties associated with this fund, and these difficulties were brought to the attention of the previous Government by the parties most crucially involved, the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour and the Waterside Workers Federation. The situation then was that there was general agreement between these parties even before 1971, which was the last time that the fund was dealt with by this House, that the charges levied were insufficient to maintain the buoyancy of the fund. In his speech in this House on 29 April 1971, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, then Minister for Labour and National Service, explained in great detail the workings of the fund. In his further speech that day he went on to castigate severely waterside workers for a number of reasons. He used the words, as he used them again today, considerable increases in wages and conditions which have been awarded to waterside workers'. I would like to point out that he uses these words as a criticism of the employees, although the wages and conditions were granted to the employees by  Mr Justice  Moore, a gentleman who I am sure has the respect not only of this House but also of those engaged in industrial activities. Certainly he has the respect of the community. Even in that speech then the honourable gentleman made a threat. He threatened that the Government would be giving close attention to the performance of the Waterside Workers Federation. Of course the House received, I am sure quite unexpectedly, a dissertation on industrial stoppages. We have had this again today. On that occasion he had a half-hearted side-swipe at employers and he had the good grace to acknowledge the impact of technology on the waterfront 

 However, tor all the window dressing, the situation has not improved materially since then. As we were told at that time, the fund still cannot meet its liabilities because payments to it then and since were not high enough. Shipowners, employers of waterside labour and the Waterside Workers Federation all expressed the view that the levy should be higher than that proposed by the Government at the time. Records and recollections of these discussions reveal the same theme running through them all. Representatives of the Department and the Government are accused of adopting a fixed attitude which did little to facilitate agreement. Another serious theme that flows through those reports is the attitude of the then Government towards an inflammable situation. 
Evidence exists that there was redundant labour at ports and that the Waterside Workers Federation and the employer groups were anxious to solve that problem. One solution suggested was voluntary retirement of workers. However, the fund was not affluent enough to pay the pension to which the retired worker was entitled. Had the previous Government seen the situation clearly, it could have solved it then by increasing the levy per man. But the Government's tactics were different. lt urged the shipowners' representatives and employers of waterside labour to seek compulsory retirement of surplus employees, knowing that this would cause industrial trouble on the waterfront, would build another brick into the Government's law and order campaign, would give another excuse to bash unions and also would lay the blame at the feet of those terrible 'commos' on the waterfront. To the credit of the integrity of the employers, they refused to swing the hatchet for the then Government. As far as 1 can ascertain, they told the Minister and his Government to do their own dirty work. 
What a change there is now that we have an enlightened Minister in an enlightened Government that is concerned about the effect on workers of their own efficiency, which brings about an increase in productivity. 
 It was not you because you cannot write. The present Government will ensure that the benefits of technology are available to all and not just to a few who claim ownership. The Minister mentioned the effect of technology on the waterfront. It is quite true, as can be seen from the statistics which he cited at great length, that the throughput of ports has increased considerably and yet the number of waterside workers employed has declined. Still there are redundant waterside workers. Ever since August 1970 an increase in the levy has been required due to the increase in long service leave payments alone and without consideration of the obvious need for an increased redundancy reserve and increased costs of the administration of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. In addition, idle time costs had to increase because employers, the previous Government through the Department of Labour and National Service and the ASIA had demanded recruitment to the industry, particularly in Melbourne and Sydney, against the wishes of the Waterside Workers Federation and in spite of the fact that everybody foresaw redundancy situations in 1972 in both those ports and in ports such as Newcastle, Port Kembla, Brisbane and Adelaide. 
The total number of new registrations at all ports during 1972 was 1,074. In Melbourne 251 waterside workers were registered in that year. In addition, a fairly high percentage of idle time - that is times of surplus labour to the needs of: a port on a given day - is a necessity in the industry and always has been. This is because the industry, even in container terminals, has to have a labour force adjusted in size to irregular needs. Thus, we cannot have a labour force sufficient to cater for peak requirements but neither can we have a labour force adjusted to minimum requirements because if we did we would have a very severe shortage of labour on many days with consequent very heavy costs in delayed ships. Five hundred men on idle time every day for a full week costs $33,700. However. 10 ships delayed only one day would cost up to S 130.000. So one can see that, by giving only half the set of statistics, the honourable gentleman is leaving out a very vital and important point. The average number of ships a week in permanent ports is about 190. If only 20 of those vessels were delayed each weekend the cost to shipping would amount to $200,000 a week or $10,400,000 a year. That would be a conservative estimate. 
It should also be borne in mind that the present system of rostering labour from the genera] labour force in permanent ports - that is labour other than in container and vehicle dock ship terminals - on an irregular shift basis from Monday to Friday and with irreguler overtime shift work at weekends is the cheapest possible system in terms of the amount of labour used for a given result and it is unfair to the men. Because they are rostered irregularly the use of the labour is very flexible since men can be changed from shift to shift on a daily basis and, in fact, from afternoon shift to day shift with only an  Si  hours separation. If the men had to be rostered properly the number of men required to work the same industry requirements would be substantially higher. With the introduction of regularly rostered shift work at BHP wharves the number of men had to be increased by some 25 per cent. To cater for a sufficient labour force for most ports, even with the present system, a reasonably high idle time content is a necessity. 
Since the employers and the previous Government insisted on recruiting men when the Waterside Workers Federation did not want to recruit and where the need was short term, they cannot complain because the Federation did not want compulsory redundancy. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition would like to have us believe that the costs incurred in moving goods across the wharf into the ship are due to the fact that the employees apparently receive a very high salary, work very short hours and receive a loading on their annual leave, in the same way that most other workers do. He is overlooking the fact that the whole situation has been brought about through the co-operation of the Waterside Workers Federation. It certainly has done nothing to impair the efficiency of the industry in any way. It has probably done more than anybody else to improve it. 
I support the measure that is before the House. It is a timely measure. The only quarrel I have is that it was not introduced when it should have been introduced, some 2 years ago. Had it been introduced then, the situation on the waterfront would have been much better than it is now. I repeat the claim that the previous Government refused 2 years ago to bring the fund to a stage at which employees could be paid their entitlements. That Government deliberately refused to do this, against the advice of employers and employees collectively. Its only purpose was to cause a confrontation with the workers on the waterfront. It is very seldom that I will be heard giving credit to employers but on this occasion I do so. They refused to do the dirty work of the Government of the day. They refused to cause a confrontation with the employees and told the Government to do its own dirty work to ensure the dismissal or the compulsory retirement of those employees, knowing full well that that would result in an industrial confrontation. I also repeat that with an enlightened government, such as the Australian Labor Party Government which we now have and with which we will be blessed for at least the next quarter of a century, there is no doubt that industrial relations will improve in this country. We have a government that is determined to ensure that industrial relations are harmonious and not a series of consistent confrontations. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! There is no provision in the Standing Orders which states that the House has to be in the charge of a Minister. 
I join this debate only because I am afraid I have become very confused by honourable members opposite and particularly by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 
It is quite correct to say that it is not unusual to be confused by what the honourable member says. In fact, on occasions I think the honourable member himself is very confused, ft seems to me that the honourable member is arguing at crosspurposes with himself. I am wondering whether he is asking the Government to write into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the requirement that people should become members of an organisation. As the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  correctly explained, Ihe International Labour Organisation convention says that in effect there shall be no prohibition on people belonging to organisations. Surely it is our aim - it is the aim of this Government anyhow - to place no impediment in the way of people who wish to become members of an organisation. In my view it was certainly the aim of the previous Government to prevent people from organising and to prevent groups from organising. 
As the Minister quite rightly pointed out - and I do not know whether it was by accident or design that the honourable member completely ignored the Minister's words and overlooked the wisdom and logic of what he was saying - section 142 of the Act speaks not so much of membership of an organisation as the registration of the organisation itself. The honourable member will know, if he has any knowledge of the industrial world, that on occasions more than one union covers much the same field. If he knew a little more about industrial matters he would know that the existence of perhaps 2 organisations causes a good deal of confusion. If the honourable member cares to examine this matter he will see that the very thing about which he and his colleagues screamed for so long when they were in government in regard  10  loss of production, loss of man hours, industrial disputes and other kinds of terrible practices, on occasions was caused by more than one union operating in the same field. 
It seems to me that the honourable member, by pursuing his proposition, intends mat there should be a continuation of these sorts of disputes. I believe that the Act we are considering, if strictly adhered to, will prevent a lot of demarcation disputes and a lot of membership disputes between unions. There can be no doubt whatsoever - or there should be no doubt because obviously there is - after the Minister's explanation of the position that there is no relationship whatsoever between the ILO convention which the honourable member drew to the attention of the Committee and section 142 of the Act as it stands. One speaks of the right of people to belong to organisations and the other speaks of the right of organisations to be registered and Ihe obligation of the Court to register th:m 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
That new sub-section (6) be added at the end of clause5. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Certain offences in relation to members of organisations, etc). 
I am not sure whether the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was speaking with tongue in cheek or whether he intended to spend the time allotted to him to debate this clause in talking about himself. Clause 7 relates to section 6 of the principal Act and, as the honourable member rightly pointed out, it removes the distinction between a conciliation commissioner and an arbitration commissioner. However, from the way the honourable member put his proposition to the Committee one would think that this was of some significance when, in fact, all it is is a matter of semantics. The honourable member assured the Committee that he knew quite a deal about trade unions and their operations. That may be true - I am not prepared to argue it - but it is obvious he knows nothing about the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904- 1972 because sub-section (3.) of section 6 states: 
The Governor-General shall designate each Commissioner 
That is, a Commissioner of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission -   (including a Commissioner appointed before the commencement of this sub-section) either as an Arbitration Commissioner or as a Conciliation Commissioner, and- 
The following are the pertinent words -  may at any time alter the designation of a Commissioner. 
From the way the honourable member for Moreton was speaking one would have thought that some special function was attached to a person designated as an arbitration commissioner and another special function or attribute attached to him who acted as a conciliation commissioner. The very Act to which the honourable member agreed simply leaves it to the Governor-General to decide which terminology shall be applied to which person. This Bill does not change the intent of anything that was intended in the principal Act. It seems to me that it is incumbent upon any member of the Opposition who opposes the Bill to make sure that his criticism of the Bill is based on fact and not on his own emotions. It is only in this way that the Committee will see the wisdom of the Bill now before it. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  expressed concern for the threat to the leadership of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I find that very touching, if a little hard to believe. In the far ranging way in which he went around the bush that time - it has to be remembered too that you,  Mr Chairman,  had to bring him back to the field on at least 2 occasions - he used his usual rhetoric when speaking about the rash of strikes, communist control of this and communist control of that and the sort of - I was about to say garbage' but I suppose that would be unparliamentary - that we have had to listen to since I have been in the House anyhow. Had the honourable gentleman bothered to read the whole of clause 6 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill and tried to comprehend what it was all about, I am sure he would have made a different speech from the one he did make. I speak from personal experience in this area as one who has been a shop steward and never a threat to the leadership of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, as one who has never been under the control of communists and as one who has always tried to do a good and honest job on the factory floor on behalf of the fellows who did me the honour of electing me. Had the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition ever had that experience he would understand and appreciate the very great risk that a working man places himself in when he takes on the troubles of his fellows in the factory; how he runs the risk of, if not being blatantly dismissed, being placed in a position in the factory and given work to do that is completely unacceptable to him and having no redress in the matter. The proposed amendment to the Act seeks to make some protection, and I believe it is very good protection, available to those people because if that protection does not exist we have the sort of situation which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and those he repre sents - those who employ - want, that is, a situation where they have a completely subservient work force in their factories and men and women who are disinclined to take any action or to complain about any action taken against them for fear that their elected representatives and they in turn would be dismissed. The Bill does not give a carte blanche to the actions of the shop stewards, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would have us believe. Instead it spells out very clearly the sorts of situations in which the shop steward is not entitled to any protection. They are situations which anybody would regard as being reasonable. The words in the Bill are of the unlawful nature', an expression that is used more than once. Proposed sub-section 2a (a) states in paragraph (a):  the act or thing done or proposed to be done by the employee was or would have been unlawful under the civil or criminal law, otherwise than by reason only of its being a breach of the contract of employment. 
This is protection for the employer, if he needs it, against his employee or shop steward or whoever is performing any unlawful act. It is not a question of placing shop stewards or employees above the law as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition suggested. Rather it works the other way. It gives to employees a degree of protection which they do not have at the moment and prevents discrimination against them because of their activities on behalf of their colleagues. As I said before, there is no colder place in this world than that occupied by a shop steward who has to take up a case on behalf of those who have done him the honour of electing him, and who finds himself at the mercy of the employer. This Bill offers protection to him. 
One other point that the honourable member made that requires some answer - once again he spoke from a position of distance - is the impression he gave of shop stewards somehow or other being guided missiles, though he did not explain of whom. He seems to overlook the fact - if he had had any practical experience of this he would know - that in all industrial matters the people on the job, the union members, will express their point of view, in fact have expressed their point of view, and their elected officials, whether shop stewards or full time officials of the union are there to do the bidding of the members. The reverse is not the case. I speak from personal experience and I am sure that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  will agree with me. So the rhetoric used by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is of no avail, lt leads the debate into areas where it should not be. lt gives a false impression to those who are listening of what clause 6 of the Bill is all about. The record should be kept straight. These amendments are designed to strengthen the existing provisions for the protection of members of organisations. It is as simple as that. It means that. The words mean that it gives nobody a right to do anything that could be considered unlawful or unreasonable but that it gives a very high degree of protection to those who on occasions really need it. 
 I refer again to the matter that has just been raised in an endeavour somehow to give an impression of refuting the statement made by the Minister or the explanation given by the Minister. I do not pretend to have a sharp and agile mind and on many occasions I think it is rather obtuse, but the provision seems very clear to me. I read again from sub-section (4.) of section 5 of the principal Act. It states: 
In any proceeding for an offence against this seclion . . . 
That to my rather dull mind would mean section 5 -  if all the facts and circumstances constituting the offence, other than the reason for the defendant's action are proved it shall lie upon the defendant to prove that bc was not actuated by the reason alleged in the charge. 
It seems to me that what we are doing with clause 6 in this Bill is simply adding to section 5. So if we add to section 5, I cannot follow the argument of the learned honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  that subsection (4.) ceases to exist, lt seems to me that it exists as if nothing had been done to the Act and that all that is being done to  vection  5 is that words are being added. They do not subtract from or add to sub-section (4.). lt seems that the Opposition's argument is simply another device to draw a smokescreen across this very important question. So many fallacies have been raised by honourable members on the other side in this debate that on occasions I have been wondering what honourable members on the other side have been debating. It is also very interesting to note - and it is appropriate to mention it at this stage in view of the furore that went on in this chamber this morning when it was claimed that the Opposition was being gagged in its opportunities to speak on this Bill and that it was being limited - that only 6 members of the Liberal Party have spoken in this debate and that there has been ample opportunity in the Committee stage for more members of the Opposition to engage in the debate but they have not bothered. Once again the remarks this morning were another smokescreen. Incidentally, only one member of the Australian Country Party has spoken. 
I am sorry. There have been 2. The whole purpose of this clause of the Bill, as has been adequately explained, except obviously to the understanding of the Opposition, is to provide protection for employees who are engaged in legitimate union business. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  spoke about great difficulties being experienced in Britain, and he attributed those difficulties to the unions in Britain. He gave me the impression that since the change of government in Britain and the ascension of  Mr Heath  and his Conservative Government there had been less industrial trouble in Britain. As I read the newspapers, it seems to be the other way. It seems that the trade unions have resented the oppressiveness of the Conservative Government in Britain and quite naturally have reacted against that oppression. The right honourable gentleman told us that we must learn lessons. The lesson to be learned in Australia is that the oppression of trade unions will bring about exactly that sort of situation. It is also interesting to note that whenever the right honourable gentleman speaks in this House on this matter he continually uses the word arbitration'. Never does he use the word conciliation'. 
With respect to you,  Mr Chairman,  I am trying to make a point. To make the point I must draw a distinction between conciliation and arbitration. The purpose of clause 6 is to bring about a position in which there is less inflammation of industrial situations. The general inflammation of industrial situations starts in the factory. I drew attention to the right honourable gentleman's continual use of the word 'arbitration' because that is the way in which his mind functions. He and the class of people he represents always think of arbitration. The trade unionist thinks of conciliation and negotiation. If one thinks of negotiation one will start thinking about the people on the factory floor, on the job, negotiating directly with their employer or his representative. They are in a very weak position to negotiate if they run the risk of being railroaded out of the factory simply because they have had the courage to stand up to their employer on behalf of their fellow employees. 
This clause seeks to prevent that sort of situation occurring. It seeks to encourage negotiation at the factory level where uninhibited negotiations can take place within the rules. Obviously honourable members opposite have not read the Bill. Clause 6 (a) seeks to insert the following paragraph in the Act: 
being an officer, delegate or member of an organisation, has done, or proposes to do, an act or thing, in an industrial establishment or elsewhere, for the purpose of furthering or protecting the industrial interests of the organisation or of its members, being an act or thing -  these are the pertinent words -  done within the limits of authority expressly or impliedly conferred on him by the organisation. 
The organisation in this case is the union. Shop stewards will not be acting unilaterally or as free agents in this matter. They can only act lawfully. They can only act within the limits of authority expressly or impliedly conferred on them by their unions. They are in an excellent position to open negotiations, and on very many occasions they settle disputes. 
No reasonable person would expect a single employee of a corporation or a group of employees of a corporation - the word 'corporation' has been used continually during the course of this debate - to stand alone against that corporation unless they in turn were guaranteed some form of protection. The Bill provides that protection. No reasonable person could dispute the terms of the Bill. All sorts of nit picking have been engaged in by the Opposition in an endeavour to show that this Bill has some ulterior motive. One would think that, with the passage of this Bill, the revolution was about to start, to paraphrase the remarks of the honourable member for Moreton. I am sorry to be boring him so much that he has to yawn continuously. 
Thank you. The matter deserves the wholehearted support of this House. I trust that it will have that support. The right honourable member for Lowe has promised us a division on the matter. That shows how strongly he feels about it. Perhaps that is not such a bad idea. Let us show the trade union movement and the  5i  million people who work in this country to provide the other 8 million people with the goods and services they need, exactly who stands where when it comes to the protection of the employees and the privilege to be retained by die employing class. The measure will certainly pass this House. There is no doubt in my mind that there are sufficient people with sufficient wisdom in this chamber to support such a measure. 
Unlike the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  it is my intention to speak about the Bill that is before the House. Before doing that I would like to comment on some of the remarks made by the. honourable gentleman. I am sure that he is sincere in what he has told us about Communist China, although I must remind the honourable gentleman that he is 3 years out of date. The current expression is 'the People's Republic of China'. If the things that be has told us about this terrible place are true and that the poor workers in that country are being exploited by their totalitarian bosses - the honourable member nods his head, so that must be true because the honourable gentleman is well known for his veracity - may I point out to him the position  of Workers  in liberated countries, countries that  are  free of communist domination and countries where the people determine their own destiny. 
And countries without trade unions. I cite 3 countries - Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea. I point out to the honourable genteman that the average wage for a worker in the textile industry in Taiwan is 25c an hour, in Hong Kong it is 29c an hour and in South Korea it is 21c an hour. But these workers are not exploited by their communist bosses because they do not have communist bosses. They live in liberated countries. They live under the fine capitalist system which the honourable member so obviously supports. Instead  of  being expoited by their communist bosses they are exploited by their American imperialist bosses. The machinery and the factories in those countries are owned by Americans, overseas people. For the information of the House, the threat to the Australian textile industry does not come from the People's Republic of China. In fact the threat comes from countries such as Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea which, I repeat, are fine liberated countries. So much for the honourable gentleman's argument on that score. 
What we are talking about today is the International Labour Organisation Bill which deals with the ratification of a number of conventions that have been carried by thai Organisation. In his second reading speech  the  Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said, and I agree entirely with his sentiments: 
The ILO is unique in the international community because it is the only organisation in which representatives of workers and employers participate on an equal footing with those of governments in policy formulation and decision-making. This tripartite composition ensures that the ILO is widely representative of each country and that its work is clearly established in, and focussed on, the human and social problems of the people of the world and the real improvement of their life. For this reason alone it deserves the support of us all. 
Yet the honourable member seemed to think that the International Labour Organisation concerned itself purely and simply, if I have copied down what he said correctly, with wage levels, conditions of work and so on. Had the honourable gentleman bothered to read the Bill that is before the House, he would have found that in fact none of the propositions that are asked to be ratified deal with wages, working conditions or like matters. Rather do they deal with such questions as the responsibility of a nation that has dependencies, as Australia does milk Papua New Guinea, the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and the like. They deal also with the question of apartheid. Neither of these matters directly refers to wages and working conditions of workmen in Australia, rather do they refer to the responsibilities of this Government. Thank God that after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule we now have a responsible Government that will face up to its responsibilities to those around it. 
It is within the memory of every member of this House that when sporting representatives from a country that is notorious for selecting its teams on a racial basis came to Australia the people of this country, including of course trade union officials and members, raised great protest at the flaunting in the face of the Australian people of the policy of such a decadent regime as that of South Africa. If one cares to read the relevant convention of the International Labour Organisation, one will find that opposition to such sporting teams was within the framework of the thinking of the ILO at the time, and still is. In fact, to the best of my knowledge South Africa has been expelled from the International Labour Organisation because of the convention that provides that any nation that is expelled from the United Nations shall be expelled from the International Labour Organisation. So those who stood in this House at that time and criticised and condemned the trade unions for their progressive thinking and their willingness to take action on a social question, must of course now stand condemned themselves, because the ILO states that the action taken by the unions is exactly what should have happened anyhow. It was the Government of the day that was at fault not the trade unions which took action. 
It is very pleasing to hear both the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Mackellar laud the ILO - the formation of it, the structure of it and the decision-making process of it - because unlike those who now sit in opposition, we who sit on the Government side of the Parliament have always believed in consultation at this level and that the decisions carried by this body should be recognised by the 
Government of Australia and, where constitutionally possible, should be implemented. 
I must come back to the point that the ILO is not just some super trade union movement but that in fact it concerns itself with all matters that affect people and their associations with one another, such abhorrent matters as apartheid, and seeing that those nations which have dependencies make every effort to ensure that the workmen who work in those dependencies and thereby create the wealth are not denied any share of that wealth. It must be remembered that all actions of government in the long term and the short term affect the people of the country and especially the workers of the country. The previous Government of this country was notorious for the way in which it endeavoured to break the organised trade union movement in this country, the only voice with which many people in this country could speak. When a government takes action the consequences filter down to the people who rely on their labour to survive. 
One matter I have in mind is political strikes. How often have we heard in this House talk about work stoppages through what were termed political strikes. We have heard such comments in relation to escalation of the bombing in Vietnam, detonation of a nuclear device in the Pacific area, a visit to this country of a sporting team representing a country that selects its sporting teams strictly on a racial basis, and many other issues. Many people who supported the previous Government termed them political strikes. Those honourable and sometimes learned gentlemen should be prepared to read through the decisions of the International Labour Organisation. I repeat that it is an organisation of workers, employers and governments. Were those gentlemen to read through the decisions of the ILO taken over the years they would find running through them a thread that they abhorred when they were in office, contrary to the principles they lauded. 
It is most significant that this measure does not need to be brought forward. The Government in this instance does not need the approval of the Parliament yet it has brought forward this measure simply because, unlike the governments of the preceding 23 years, it wants the Parliament to know what it is doing. Through the Parliament it is letting the people know what it is doing. That is an important democratic principle that seems to be supported only by us on this side of the House. It is important if the true concept of democracy is to survive in this country. No longer can we tolerate the taking of decisions by governments in Cabinet rooms without bothering to tell the Parliament or the people what they are doing. 
This Bill is divided into 2 parts. The first part relates to 2 technical amendments which change certain numbers and words. It would take far too long to detail them now. The second part of the Bill ratifies decisions taken by previous conventions. One provides: 
Where the subject-matter of the Conventionis within the self-governing powers of any territory, the obligation of the Member responsible for the international relations of that territory shall be to bring the Convention to the notice of the government of the territory as soon as possible with a view to the enactment of legislation or other action by such government; if the government of the territory so agrees, the Member shall communicate to the DirectorGeneral of the International Labour Office a declaration accepting the obligations of the Convention on behalf of such territory. 
Australia is a member nation of the International Labour Organisation; Papua New Guinea is not. We - including the people of Papua New Guinea - trust that in a short time Papua New Guinea will enjoy nationhood in its own right and that it will be able to take its place as a member nation of the ILO. In the intervening period the convention makes it incumbent upon Australia to draw to the attention of the Government of Papua New Guinea matters which are of direct concern to it. The Government of Papua New Guinea in return is to respond to the Australian Government as a member nation. Australia then has a responsibility to report back to the International Labour Organisation. Once again it is indicative of the openness of the present Government that the decisions taken are communicated directly. Decisions are not passed on by the grapevine. It is a direct responsibility of a member nation to convey to its dependent states matters which will affect them, and all these matters do affect them. A dependent state has a responsibility to consider a proposition and to express its point of view back to the member nation. The member nation in turn shall convey that point of view to the ILO. Nothing could be fairer. 
That convention was passed quite some time ago but was never agreed to by the previous Government. In fact, the previous 
Government agreed to very few ILO conventions and quite a number of them are outstanding. The present Labor Government of Australia strongly supports the structure of the ILO. It is a participant in ILO meetings. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will go to Geneva in June as Australia's representative. For the first time in many years a Geneva Conference will be refurbished and invigorated by the presence of an Australian Labor Party Minister. I wish him well on the journey. I am sure he will bring to the meeting the wisdom he has brought to this Parliament in speaking on industrial relations. 
Many other matters are of prime concern to our people. The honourable member for Flinders, who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, spoke on unemployment, a matter of prime concern to our people. Perhaps the matter of greatest concern to working people is unemployment. It involves the availability of employment opportunities and protection against the capricious actions of governments which can take away from a man his right to earn a living in the community. If I heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition correctly he said that there was unemployment, but he was gracious enough to acknowledge that relatively serious unemployment occurred in the period prior to the Federal election. He further indicated that the level of unemployment had been reduced. He seemed to be saying that unemployment had been reduced because the previous Government, before its defeat in 1972, had set in train a course of action which took some time to take effect. He said that it was only now taking effect and that the economic decisions and actions of the previous government had reduced unemployment to its present level. 
The honourable member tor Flinders has generally been a very gracious gentleman. I am surprised that on this occasion he was not gracious enough to acknowledge that it is only the action taken by the Labor Government since last December that has caused a drop in unemployment. He forgot to mention, as I have just mentioned, that the capricious actions of the previous Government threw 120,000 people out of work in Australia. The responsible actions taken by a responsible government since last December have meant that the slack in the economy has been taken up. There is no doubt in my mind, and I am sure in the minds of my colleagues, that the trouble stemmed from the actions taken by the previous Government in its 1972-73 Budget in order to correct its previous mistakes. It may sound hackneyed, but I repeat that after 23 years in office the previous Government should have learned not to make mistakes. But it made mistakes in 1954, 1961 and 1971. Supporters of the previous Government did not know how to manage the economy. As a direct result of their attempts to rectify their previous mistakes, 120,000 people were thrown out of work and were caused great hardship. The present Government follows the conventions of the International Labour Organisation. Through wisdom, good and sound common sense :ind our expert knowledge of the economy and its impact on the working people for whom we care greatly, we on this side of the House will never be led into the trap into which the previous Government was so easily led. 
All in all, although the measure before the House is of a technical nature, it does open up many questions for discussion. Honourable members opposite never miss an opportunity in speaking to bash the unions. For as long as they want to do that I will never miss an opportunity to defend the unions and the working people of this country. The measure can receive no serious opposition. The Government and the Minister for Labour, are to be commended for bringing this matter to the attention of the House so that it can be aired, rather than shuffling it around as the previous Government did for so long. It is commendable that the Minister has brought these matters, which are of interest and concern to the community, to the people through the medium of the Parliament so that they can be publicly discussed and understood and. in this way, prevent difficulties arising. 
Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware of a report that the Minister for State Development and Decentralisation in Victoria has accused the Postmaster-General of telling lies in relation to his statement that the Victorian Government had not approached the Commonwealth seeking that Ballarat be designated as a development centre? Is he also aware that  Mr Byrne  has publicly stated that the reply he received from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development contained no information other than acknowledgement of receipt of a letter? Is  Mr Byrne  correct in saying that the Minister gave no information in his reply? 
Can the Minister for the Northern Territory inform the House of the present state of penal reform in the Northern Territory? What steps have been taken to overcome the crowding that exists in Fannie Bay Gaol? Is there any intention to build a new gaol in the Northern Territory to replace the Fannie Bay Gaol? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Housing. Is he aware of a statement made by the Victorian Minister of Housing,  Mr Dickie,  that Housing Commission rents will rise by $3 a week, that pensioner tenants' rents will rise savagely and that these increases have been forced upon the Victorian Government by the Federal Government because of the terms of the recently concluded Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement? Did  Mr Dickie  indicate at any time before or during the conference that rents for Housing Commission tenants and /or pensioners in Victoria would rise after the Victorian State elections? 
I join the debate to support the question that is before the Chair at the moment. I am rather surprised that so much of the time of this debate should be taken up with talking about the location of the proposed new parliament house. It seems to me that that is not the question that this Parliament ought to be considering at the moment. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  seemed to indicate that my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  changed his motion at the last moment because he did not believe that the numbers existed in the House of Representatives in favour of Capital Hill, whereas at a joint meeting of Parliament there might be a sufficient number in agreement with that proposal. I am most surprised that the Minister should make that comment about my colleague. The Minister acknowledged in his amendment that this matter will be determined by a joint meeting of the House of Representatives and the Senate. It is because of that fact that i am disappointed that the debate today should have devolved around the site. I would have expected the proposition put to this 1House by my colleague the honourable member for Corio to be debated in its context. The motion recognises that the decision ultimately will be taken by the 2 Houses sitting together. That is recognised also by the amendment. If the Senate and the House of Representatives agree to the 2 Houses sitting together, we will listen then to the merits and demerits of Camp Hill, Capital Hill, a lake side site or even building an island in the middle of the lake - if somebody should come up with that sort of proposition. 
One matter that has been overlooked, with the greatest of respect to my parliamentary colleagues who have been here much longer than I, is that when the Parliament carries a decision the decision remains until the Parliament changes it. 
The honourable member for Gippsland, who is seated at the table, says 'that is right'. I would draw the honourable member's mind back to a time when he was a member of Parliament and I was not. He would know that this chamber carried a proposition that the Parliament should be sited on Camp Hill. He would know further that the Senate, at approximately the same time, did not agree with that decision. The Senate's idea was that the new parliament house should be located on Capital Hill. I respectfully put to the House that what has happened is that the 'House of Representatives has taken a decision and that decision still stands. The Senate has taken a decision and that decision still stands. The 2 Houses are in conflict and therefore there is no decision. I would put it further to honourable members that the question ought to be resolved in the terms of the proposition put by the honourable member for Corio 'and that the concurrence of the Senate ought to be sought for both Houses to sit conjointly so that the matter can be resolved. That having been done and a joint meeting convened, it would then be open for members to canvass their particular favoured locations - Capital Hill or Camp Hill - and in that way the matter will be resolved. If the question at present being considered is not carried but is negated in any way at all it seems that we will be right back to square 1. We have submitted to procrastination in the past and delayed any start on a new and permanent parliament house. 
I doubt very much that any honourable member or any other person in the Commonwealth could say with any justification that the existing Parliament House - a temporary building constructed in 1927  -  meets the needs of a very vigorous government and, I trust, a vigorous Parliament of 1973. As time goes on that position will worsen. Surely if the proposition now before us is negated there will be further procrastination. Again we would start with a roundabout of the Senate debating a measure carried by the House of Representatives and perhaps determining a different view from the House of Representatives. A joint meeting would then be convened and the matter would then be discussed again. I support the motion moved by my colleague the honourable member for Corio which proposes that corners, red-tape and procrastination be cut and that this House seek the concurrence of the Senate to sit jointly with it. The various adherents to the particular sites could canvass their opinions at that meeting which would be deliberative. 
1 am sorry about that, cousin. I am sorry if I have upset my unrelated fellow-named honourable member for Hughes and Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson).  I make a strong appeal to the House to bring this matter to a vote today. The House should determine that a vote be taken on the question today and not let the debate spill over to another time when, with the greatest of respect, we will be back on the merry-go-round and honourable members will be debating the merits or non-merits of particular sites. I have deliberately chosen not to mention a site during the time that I have spoken because the original proposition does not mention a site. All that the original proposition asks is for the House to make up its mind that the matter is urgent. It states: 
That this House is of the opinion that: 
the site for the New and Permanent Parliament House should be determined forthwith. 
I take 'forthwith' to mean as soon as is humanly possible. The motion continues: 
a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives should be convened to determine the matter, and 
planning for the new House should commence immediately. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it with this resolution and requesting its concurrence. 
If the House agrees with that proposition and it goes to the Senate and the Senate, at an early date, concurs in the opinion of the House of Representatives, surely we have cut the corners then; surely we have carved through the red tape; surely we have got to a position where with 1 85 of us sitting jointly a decision could be taken which ought to carry a lot of weight with the Government. Ultimately it has to be recognised that it is to be the Government's decision as to where the site will be. But the Government is entitled to the best advice it can possibly get and surely the best advice available to the Government is the view of the members of the House of Representatives and the Senate. 
The sheer duplication of this debate, as obviously will occur, is a factor towards procrastination in the whole matter. The inadequacies of this House are obvious. One feels almost ashamed when people from one's electorate come to this House and after the business has been conducted they are taken around the place and it is shown to them. One must ask them not to step in certain places for fear that they will go through the floor because it is very unsafe in places. If on the top floor of the building and being of some bulk myself, I sometimes wonder how secure the building is. 
The building is not only inadequate for those who have to work in it, but as I understand from expert advice, it is also structurally unsound. It has had something like $6m spent on it in most recent years and still has not been improved to any great extent to do the job which it is expected to do. So let us have no more discussion or argument about where the site ought to be. Let us be sincere about it. Let this House of Representatives in all sincerity say: 'We want to get on with the job. We believe that there is a need for a new and permanent parliament house. We want to get on with the job, so therefore we want our friends and colleagues in the Senate to sit with us so that we can take a decision. We will canvas the locations at that meeting and then a decision will be made and we will be able to do what must be done'. But to take the matter through the debate on the site again in my view is only procrastination. 
I am not sure that any future construction ought to be a staged construction. Obviously buildings are not built overnight. Nobody in our community can wave a magic wand and do that. It obviously will take some time to construct, but I believe that this Parliament would be dodging its responsibilities if it were to say: 'We will put up a few corrugated iron sheds this year. That will placate the electorate. We will put up a few more the year after and that will placate it even more. If we did that we would be in no better position in 25 years from now than we are at present'. 
Those honourable members who have lived in Melbourne will know that in 1945 a railway station made of corrugated iron was pulled down at Spencer Street. It was put there in 1915 as a temporary railway station. If that sort of attitude is to be adopted in building the new and permanent parliament house exactly the same sort of situation will be reached. The building does not have to be funded immediately. It could be funded over the planning period so that there would be considerable money available to build it when it was ready to be built without plundering the public purse. But the initial decision - I must come back to this - I believe and I hope, but I rather doubt, should be taken today, and that is that we get on, that we start, that we take a decision that we do need a new and permanent parliament house, that we call our colleagues in the Senate to sit with us, and that we take a decision at that meeting. At that meeting we may canvass the sites and come to a decision. Then it is up to the Government to act on that decision. 
So I strongly urge members of the House of Representatives today to demand that this matter come to a vote. I demand that this matter should come to a vote today so that there should be no further spill-off where in this House we are considering sites, which at the moment is a premature action. We can save that debate until the 2 Houses sit together and a deliberative decision can be taken. 
I support the Budget. It has been described as a centralist and socialist Budget but I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on bringing down such a fine Budget. It is the finest Budget we have had in 24 years, brought down by the finest Treasurer and supported by the finest Government that this country has had in 24 years. The conservative reactionaries opposite who were rejected by the people of this country on 2 December last have said that it is a socialist Budget as if that expression would arouse disgust in the community. I inform them that the people of Australia are very pleased to hear that expression. They are very pleased to have a socialist government and the next time we go to the polls they will prove it. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who preceded me in this debate, made a comment that epitomises the conservatism and rank reactionarism of hourable members who now sit in Opposition. With no justification or support for the statement the honourable member said baldly when talking about a government-built factory to produce motor cars that the facility could be built cheaper and could be run more efficiently by private enterprise. Private enterprise has proved around the world that it does not work. Inflation is rife not only in Australia but also in other capitalist countries around the world. The United States of America, a bastion of free enterprise, is also the home of the greatest and most rapidly growing inflation in the world. 
Last evening we were treated to a dissertation by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who was Treasurer in the previous Government. I listened very carefully to the words of wisdom he was addressing to the people of this country. After a while I started to realise that I did not really understand what he was saying. It worried me a little and I thought that my mental processes were perhaps deteriorating as I could not understand what this man was saying to the House of Representatives and through it to the nation. However, I was rejuvenated this morning when I read in today's newspapers that some journalists had not understood him either. It was the type of diatribe- which we have always been fed by the people opposite who were in office for 23 years but did nothing except bring about a shambles and ruin. The right honourable gentleman's speech shows clearly how speeches can deteriorate when they are no longer written by Treasury officials. When they have to be written by the right honourable member himself, they are not quite of the same quality. 
We have always been consistent. Honourable members opposite stand up and say that nothing is being done about decentralisation. They did nothing about it in the 23 years that they were in government. We have been in government for about six or eight months. They say that nothing has been done in any area about decentralisation. They ask: 'What is being done about the environment? What is being done about this and. that?' If they believe that those are good things they could not have suddenly reached that conclusion on 2 December. They must have believed that for some time. Yet in all the time they occupied the treasury benches of this Parliament they did nothing about it. At least the Labor Party has been consistent. For 23 years it has been saying that there are areas of neglect and areas that need to be tidied up. Now that the Labor Party is on the treasury benches it will do something about these things. 
He is not dead, so how could he turn over in his grave? He is still alive, for the honourable member's information. The honourable member for Murray seemed to indicate that areas outside the metropolitan areas are deprived. He said that no benefits filter through to the country. I see from those who represent the country that no intelligence filters out that corner of the House.  His  comments lead me to believe that what has happened- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Would the honourable member mind repeating the part which he considers to be offensive? 
I am pleased to join in the debate if only to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  It is a matter of regret to me that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is not still a member of the Public Works Committee, because 1 understand from past decisions that he made very valuable contributions to the debates. As one of the newer members of the Committee I feel obliged to advise the House of the reasons for the change from the previous Committee's recommendation. The honourable member for Hunter showed great foresight at the original hearing on this matter when he recommended the route that was finally adopted. However, there were modifications, as the honourable member for Wakefield indicated, and I am not sure that the doubts expressed by the hon ourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  are as serious as they might appear on the surface. 
The route that was finally chosen from the eight or nine that were available to the Committee seemed to offer least disturbance to people. In our view it did not offer any danger to the cliffs along the Darwin waterfront. In fact the Department of Works had gone to great lengths to move the road inland, to narrow median strips and do a number of other things to ensure that the caves there were protected. The egress from the proposed road into the main area of Darwin was a matter of great discussion at the public hearing. I came away from that hearing with the understanding that the best possible route would be chosen for that end of the road after discussion with the Darwin City Council, the Department of Works and all other interested bodies. I do not think there is any real problem associated with this aspect. There was obviously a need for an alternative major road system to bring the people from the outlying areas into the city proper. In my opinion it was also obvious that in the future further consideration will have to be given to that area. 
I think the Committee made a wise decision. The route it selected offers the least disturbance to the people. People are very important when it comes to road systems. It offered the least disturbance to people. It offered the least disturbance to those areas or those features which people believe it to be desirable to retain. All those features are being retained. I commend the Department for the way in which it redrew the scheme. I commend the report and its adoption to the House. 
 I listened carefully to what was said in this House this morning and it seemed that 2 propositions were put to the House. The House so far has decided that the original proposition is not acceptable, a majority of members having voted for the alternative proposition. Having said that, I believe that it is desirable that the House now proceed to a decision. It seems that there is no alternative before the House; there is only one proposition and that is the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I shall probably vote for the amendment. In my view, this is a very controversial question. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  this morning put the matter rather clearly, if emotionally. This is an emotional question and anybody who denies that is not understanding what the issue is all about. It is probably a sad reflection on this House that on 10 May a proposition was put to the House but it was not prepared to take a positive stand at that time. It chose the alternative of having an inquiry into this issue. 
One can always quarrel with the terms of reference of an inquiry. However, it is in the interests of the community to have this sort of inquiry take place. This morning I voted for the original proposition because I cannot be persuaded by the argument that it is necessary to have a multitude of people conducting an inquiry so that they can put their respective points of view. It has always been my view that an impartial person - such as a judge, as was originally suggested - should conduct an inquiry. He or she in turn should receive advice from those who are putting contrary points of view. If we load the decision-making body with too many committed points of view, probably we will not get an unbiased opinion on the whole matter. However, the House already has determined that matter and has said that it is not satisfied that there should be only one inquirer, such as a judge. It has said that there should be a multitude of inquiries. Having reached that stage, it seems to me that there is no good purpose to be served by prolonging a decision. 
I take issue with the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr 'Donald Cameron)  who said that debate was stifled. I do not think it was. This is not a matter that was suddenly sprung upon this House of Parliament. It is not a matter that was suddenly sprung upon the community. It has been very well canvassed. In fact, my rubbish tin is full of letters from the Right to Life Association on the matter. Many points of view have been put. Those with which I agree I take cognisance of and those with which I disagree go into my special filing cabinet, the rubbish tin. That is where the correspondence from the Right to Life Association finished after I had read it because I could not agree with it. My point of view was not agreed with by this House on the previous occasion and I now intend to support an inquiry, but to say that the House has not had sufficient time to discuss the matter is wrong. This is an important matter, I agree; but to take up the time of this House which has very many matters as important as this to discuss is procrastinating on the issue. If there is any honourable member in this chamber who has not yet had his mind made up on this issue, I very much doubt that the persuasive eloquence and rhetoric of those who would speak in the chamber on this subject would be able to do it. Honourable members' minds are made up and it is unfair and sniping from a distance to say that debate in this chamber was stifled. We should now get down to doing what we must do, and that is decide whether on the record we will have simply the word 'that' and nothing else as the motion which was agreed to or whether we will do something positive. I think the House should move now towards taking a vote on the amendment. Whether honourable members vote for or against the amendment is a matter for their own consciences. Rather than procrastinate on the issue, we must move to a decision almost immediately. 
1 seek your indulgence,  Mr Speaker.  When the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  quite recently moved that the report of the Public Works Committee be printed, because of the turmoil in the House at the time I misunderstood what was being said and moved that the debate be adjourned. I now seek the indulgence of the House to withdraw the motion that I moved, namely, that the debate be adjourned. It was inappropriate and did not apply. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is rather entertaining when he speaks but he certainly is not enlightening. The reason for this matter having to be raised tonight is that the Opposition today has given the Government little time in which to d.al with very important business. I take the point raised by my colleague, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  that to suggest that this is a new measure which has just come before the House is not presenting quite the truth of the situation. This measure has been in the House before and its subject matter has been debated thoroughly. My colleagues and I who have a knowledge of the workings of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and of the trade union movement itself, with great modesty and retraint - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! There is no point of order. As I understand it, the clock has been set to indicate the conclusion of the debate. 
This is the second time today that the honourable member for Gippsland has shown that a vacuum is contained between his ears. This matter has been dealt with thoroughly on previous occasions. It has been through the 2 Houses of Parlia ment. I understand that the Opposition wants to move some amendments. We sat patiently to allow members opposite to waffle on during the second reading stage - and waffle they did, wasting their own time, not anybody else's. They made no real contribution. They spoke heaps of rubbish on a subject about which they know nothing. It is important that we get to the Committee stage of this Bill, because it is a Committee Bill. As the Opposition seeks to amend clauses of the Bill, we should be in Committee. If this fiddle faddle had not gone on we would have had more time in Committee. Those who profess to be the great champions of justice and ample speaking time are the ones who in recent days have done things like preventing the people of Australia from expressing their point of view in a referendum. Tonight they are using up time which should be available for honourable members to debate an important measure by putting their own political points of view. This is not good enough. The Bill must go through this House tonight. It has 'been well canvassed. If the contributions of members opposite during the earlier part of this day are any indication of their contributions to such an important debate as this, they will not be worth listening to. 
Order! The time allotted for this debate has expired. The question is: 'That the motion be agreed to'. Those in favour say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. The question now is- 
Opposition members  -  The noes have it. 
I rise to support the position being adopted by the Government on this issue. I think I would be in agreement with most of the speakers, certainly those from this side of the chamber. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was coming to a point of commonsense on the matter. I think that the time of the House in speaking on this matter is being wasted completely by the Opposition digging its toes in. 
That is correct,  Mr Chairman.  I am just making the observation that the time of the House is being wasted by the puerile arguments being put by honourable members opposite. What we are talking about on this occasion is the appointment of arbitration inspectors. Section 125 of the principal Act says: 
Inspectors may be appointed for the purpose of securing the observance of thu Act and the regulations and of awards. 
It is already in the Act. It is being argued that there is some disputation about whether the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  ought to appoint them or whether they ought to be appointed by the Public Service Board. It has been said that the Government is going to establish Clyde's Own Corps, Dad's Army and jobs for the boys. Those are pretty specious arguments because they bear no relevance to the fact at all. If this Government wanted to create jobs for the boys - it does not want to - it would find that over the last 23 years it could find a beautiful precedent. To suggest it will happen in this case takes away from the argument that is being put. The point of it, as I see it, is that arbitration inspectors are very important people and they perform- 
What did he say? 
Well, if He is going to use that sort of attitude I am sure that his own history will not bear much investigation. The role of arbitration inspectors in this area is a very important one. Unlike honourable members opposite, I have worked in industry for many years. I know the importance of these sorts of functions and I know that those who fulfil this very important role ought to be drawn from the very broad spectrum available in the community. To suggest that they should be drawn only from the Public Service is fallacious. I think it does a disservice to the very important functions that the inspectors are expected to fulfil. The role of an inspector should not be restricted. The Minister is responsible for the Act and the administration of it. I can see no justifiable reason for the Opposition putting forward the proposition that the responsibility for the appointment of these people ought to be taken away from the Minister. It seems to me that this is the proper place for it to lie. The Opposition has been dragging red herrings across the course. We have heard about Dad's Army. I think it was one of the corporals from Dad's Army who put up that argument. These expressions - Clyde's Own Corps, Dad's Army and jobs for the boys - have been mentioned as red herrings by the conservatives in our community who now sit on the other side of this chamber. 
Yes, they are. I am just being distracted by some pretty intelligent interjections,  Mr Chairman.  Honourable members opposite use those sorts of expressions to try to destroy this legislation. For the life of me I cannot understand the motivation of honourable members opposite. It seems to be practical that clause 54 should remain in the Bill. I support it. I support the Minister's stand on this matter. I trust that Opposition members will not be stubborn and pig headed about it and will not dig their toes in to such an extent as to prevent the passage through this Parliament of this very fine Bill. 
That the question be put. 
May I raise a point of order on that? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause 54 agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
Section 5 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by inserting after paragraph (e) of sub-section &lt;1) the following word and paragraph: "; or (f) being an officer delegate or member of an organization, has done, or proposes to do, an act or thing, in an industrial establishment or elsewhere, for the purpose of furthering or protecting the industrial Interests of the organization or of its members, being an act or thing done within the limits of authority expressly or impliedly conferred on him by the organization."; 
by inserting after paragraph (b) of sub-section &lt;1a) the following word and paragraph: "; or (c) with intent to dissuade the employee, being an officer, delegate or member of an organization, from doing an act or thing of the kind in relation to which paragraph (f) of sub-section (1) applies."; and 
by inserting after sub-section (2) the following sub-sections: " (2a) In the prosecution for an offence arising under paragraph (f) of sub-section (1), it is a defence if the employer satisfies the court that - 
the act or thing done or proposed to be done by the employee was or would have been unlawful under the civil or criminal law, otherwise than by reason only of its being a breach of the contract of employment; and 
the conduct of the employer that is tre subject of the charge was reasonably justified by reason of the unlawful nature of the act or thing referred to in paragraph (a) of this sub-section. " (2b) In a prosecution for an offence arising under paragraph (c) sub-section (1a), it is a defence If the employer satisfies the court that - 
the act or thing which the employer intended to dissuade or prevent the employee from doing would have been unlawful under the civil or criminal law, otherwise than by reason only of its being a breach of a contract of employment; and 
the conduct of the employer that is the subject of the charge was reasonably justified by reason of the unlawful nature of the act or thing referred to in paragraph (a) of this sub-section. " (3) A reference in this section to an orga nization shall be read as including a reference to a branch of an organization.". 
After listening to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  I know why he enters into debates on industrial matters. After seeing the performance he has just given I am quite sure that he is a member of Actor's Equity. If an award were to be given for the best performance in this place I am sure that he would win it hands down. He used a lot of fine words but not having the benefit of his erudition I did not understand half of them. The argument behind his words was fallacious. It was so stupid and full of holes that it does not matter. He referred to somebody coming downstairs to kick the managing director in a certain part of his anatomy. He went on to say that the clause we are debating would provide immunity to that person. Nothing could be further from the mark. I am surprised that such a learned gentleman could say that, particularly as I understand that he is very well trained in the law. 
He has fallen for the trap of believing that the law would hinge on this provision. Surely he knows of the other laws and forces at work in the community which apply in cases of unprovoked assault. I understand that he has had some dealings in industrial matters. He and other honourable members opposite would know full well that in some areas employees can be placed at a very great disadvantage because they are employees. They are inhibited in going about their proper duties on behalf of the organisation to which they belong simply because they are employees. I want to stress that point because I am sure that some honourable members opposite do not see the difference between being an employee and being an employer. It seems to me that their sympathies lie generally with employers rather than with employees and that they see all power residing with employers, none residing with employees. 
This provision endeavours to give protection to people who go among their fellows to bring them into the fold of a particular indus trial organisation. Let us not forget that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act with which we are dealing acknowledges the existence of trade unions and their functions. The Opposition seeks to truncate and emasculate the trade union movement by an amendment which would provide for penalties to be laid at the feet of people who are organising their fellows. To me that is completely unacceptable. 
The proposed amendment seeks to delete from clause 6 the words 'in an industrial establishment or elsewhere' and to add the words 'which is lawful' and 'in accordance with the constitution of the organisation'. How stupid it would be to add those words to a provision that already contains the words expressly or impliedly conferred on him by the organisation'. Unions have a great responsibility to act within their constitutions. Why is it always felt necessary by the Opposition to wear a belt and braces? I suspect that the additions were thought up by a lawyer because it seems to be the nature of a lawyer to wear a belt and braces. In this instance it is completely unnecessary to refer to that which is lawful and I find it offensive. I do not wish to enter into a deep legal argument with my colleague, the honourable member for Moreton, who chastised the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  for taking no notice of him but now sits with his back to the Chair. Many other arguments could be advanced against adding the words 'which is lawful'. The words imply that trade union people go around acting unlawfully. There has been no evidence of that. During this debate there has been no discussion of what is lawful or unlawful. 
The honourable member for Corangamite refers to the Ford plant at Broadmeadows. I live in Broadmeadows and I was there on 13 June. I saw what occurred and I do not remember seeing the honourable member or any of his colleagues there on that day. 
Is the honourable gentleman prepared to stand in this House and say that the damage at Broadmeadows was caused by trade unionists? 
Are we to rely on the implications of honourable members opposite that because damage is caused it must have been done by trade unionists? That is my point. In the minds of honourable members opposite all acts are unlawful if . carried out by trade unionists. Have I ever heard honourable gentlemen opposite raise the question of the destruction of the minds and living habits of people who are forced to work on the production line at the Ford plant in Broadmeadows? No,  Sir. The  suggestion is that all things done by trade unionists are of necessity unlawful and therefore we must write into this measure the words 'which is lawful'. I find that offensive. Many legal arguments could be brought forward to rebut the proposed amendment which would place restrictions on people whose chosen way of life is to go among their fellows and to organise them into their appropriate industrial organisations. I find it abhorrent that they would be restricted. 
I reject the amendment as it is worded. The wording in the Bill is completely satisfactory, despite the very learned arguments put forward by my revered friend, the honourable member for Moreton. The proposed additional words would add nothing to the measure. Leaving in the measure the words that the amendment seeks to delete does not detract from it. The law contains sufficient safeguards against the actions feared by honourable gentlemen opposite. The civil laws apply to acts of wilful damage irrespective of whether the persons concerned are members of an organisation. Trade unions are honourable organisations and those who belong to them are honourable gentlemen. It is a great shame that there are not more people from the trade union movement sitting in this Parliament. 
Earlier in this debate this evening the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  put forward a point of view concerning the business of the House. He said that, if there were no objection to this measure from the Opposition, honourable members ought to have their speeches simply recorded in Hansard so that we could move on to matters of national concern. I am sure that the honourable gentleman did not mean that concern and care for the handicapped in our community is not a matter of national concern, because by any yardstick it is a matter of concern for all of us in this community. The honourable member for Hotham is a small '1' Liberal. I use that term in its true sense.  His  views are well known. But he ignores the ultra-conservative views of his colleagues, the plough followers who sit on the corner benches of this House. 
The honourable gentleman also made a point about trade unions. He seemed to me to be saying that the trade unions would raise, did raise or are raising some objection to the employment of the handicapped. With the greatest of respect to the honourable gentleman and to his well-known liberal views, I do not think that there is any trade union in this country that would be happy to know that one of its members, after having been injured in an accident, was sitting at home receiving a pittance as a payment in the form of workers compensation when he was able to and would perform certain tasks but for the fact that industry - by that I mean those who employ - would not employ a disabled worker. Medical practitioners are prone to giving medical certificates to the effect that a worker is capable of performing light duties. Nobody knows what light duties are. In industry and in commerce generally all those who employ demand full physical and mental faculties of those whom they employ. Of course, there are exceptions, but these exceptions only go to prove the rule. 
Tonight we are dealing with the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Bill. The purpose of this Bill is to enable subsidy to be paid on money borrowed for the establishment of what are known in our community as sheltered workshops. As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said in his contribution to this debate, the Bill does not go  to the  fundamentals of the human problems of those among us who are for a variety of reasons unable to live what we fondly call a normal life. Our whole society is based on 2 premises - to work, whether manually or intellectually, and to receive reward for that labour. I realise that this simple analysis ignores the parasites who batten on workers and live off the returns from their ownership of capital. But the edict, that those who labour shall receive sustenance, ignores a very large section of our community - those who have been born with a physical, intellectual or mental handicap and those who have been injured or afflicted during their lives. 
We display a humanitarian attitude by collectively making sustenance available for these people but money, no matter in what quantity, can never provide or restore the human dignity that comes with being wanted and being able to make a worthwhile contribution to the community of which we are a part. Because of the profit motive of the society in which we live, the profit motive that is built into our so-called free enterprise system, employers are generally more kindly disposed towards those prospective employees who are in top physical or intellectual condition, or both. Therefore, those who suffer from disabilities are, as I have said, generally looked upon with little favour by prospective employers. 
The Australian Government Public Service, as presently structured, is perhaps the worst offender in this area. That organisation requires, before it employs somebody, an actual physical examination of that person and requires a written test to be fulfilled satisfactorily before employment is even contemplated. Many private employers exercise the same degree of discernment when selecting employees. What we come up against is this archaic attitude of employers, that those whom they employ should be capable of earning not only their own keep but in fact should be earning a little bit more - or if possible a big bit more - for those who own capital. Any person who is not completely physically and/ or intellectually and mentally fit is in no position to earn his own keep, let alone provide the extra values for the benefits of the parasites. My own concept is that every person, irrespective of accident of birth or tragedy of life, is entitled to dignity. 
The encouragement of the sheltered workshop concept is a very worthy one. In this environment men, women, boys and girls can be engaged in worthwhile activities which satisfy their dignity as human beings by providing the opportunity to engage actively in manufacturing or processing and thus making a contribution to society. This contribution is made away from the highly competitive area of ordinary or, should I say, accepted manufacturing procedure. Many workshops exist in Australia now but there are not nearly enough. To establish a sheltered workshop is not easy. 
The State member for Broadmeadows in Victoria,  Mr John  Wilton, MLA, is at present seeking to establish a workshop in the Broadmeadows area to serve the handicapped people of Broadmeadows and the surrounding area. This project was originally started by the mothers of the children who attend the special school in Broadmeadows. They were concerned as to what would happen to their young people when they reached the ripe old age cif 16 years, when they would then be asked to leave the school. It seemed to the mothers of these children, and I think our society generally would agree, that it is a great waste for these young men and young women who have a handicap, whether physical or intellectual, at the age of 16 to have to leave the school which they have been attending in familiar surroundings and under the care and the guidance of the teachers of that school. There is no future for them, there is nowhere for them to go. Local industry is not very interested in employing them. They cannot remain at the private school and so they stay at home with their parents. 
This state of affairs is a great tragedy in our community. Recognising this vacuum, the mothers of these young people decided that there should be a sheltered workshop in that area. They started by baking cakes in their kitchens and selling them in the streets on Saturday. It has to be recognised that the concept they foresaw would cost $250,000, which they would have to raise. There is no way known that $250,000 can be raised by people baking cakes in their kitchen and selling them in the streets on a Saturday. Yet these women are so concerned about the future of their children that they did try.  Mr Wilton  and his band of workers have now raised a considerable amount of money, not by baking cakes but by going about it in a systematic way. They have had to cadge from the community to raise the funds that they need. I am not suggesting that this Bill will go all the way, and neither does the Minister, towards solving this problem. But now that the project in Broadmeadows is under way, with the introduction and the passage of this Bill,  Mr Wilton  and his workers will be in a much better position to attract a subsidy towards their project. 
Land on which to build was made available to them by the Housing Commission of Victoria on a reduced payment basis. It was sold to them at a lower cost than that at which it would have been sold to a private developer. Nonetheless it was sold. The Government of Victoria did not even come to the party and give to this group of people land which they could have used. Still the profit motive exists even with governments and especially with Liberal governments. 
But this very real problem of finding employment and employment dignity for these people exists. Industry, as I have said, because of its highly competitive nature is loath to place these people on its payroll. It is unfair to say that that applies to all industries. Some industries are very good in this respect; others are very bad. To provide these people with the dignity that the rest of us endeavour to achieve through our labours it is necessary to have an area in which they can be protected from the extreme competitiveness of industry. So the sheltered workshop concept fits the bill. As well as those people who were born with afflictions there are the workers who have suffered injury during the course of their employment. They receive a very meagre payment of workers compensation on which to survive week by week, and through the whole concept of sheltered workshop's surely there is an avenue for the Government to be more deeply involved, because to me it is a very fine and productive way in which we can rehabilitate and perhaps bring back into the work force those who, through no fault of their own, have been injured and removed from it. So these workshops perform quite an important function in our community. They deserve full support. They deserve more support than they are now getting. I am quite sure that it is in the mind of the Government that in future they shall receive more support. 
It is all very well for those who now sit in Opposition to say that they have no objection to this measure. They had plenty of time to introduce it. They never did. So they should not be raising objection to it now. They ought to be adopting the course they are adopting and suggesting that it is such an important and such a humanitarian effort that the measure ought to go through unchallenged. The points that I wanted to make I have made. I will recapitulate the main points. I compliment the Government on introducing the measure. It will provide a degree of assistance for those who at the moment badly need assistance. It will foster and I trust encourage even further the development of sheltered workshops so that that very large group of people in our community - the statistics would probably astound us, but it is a very large group, because there is one handicapped person for about every 40 members of the work force - can be made to feel that they are being welcomed into society, that they are worthwhile, that they have dignity, and that they are making a contribution. To me they are the elements of humanity, and if we can come to this stage quickly it can only be for the benefit of our whole community. I commend the measure to the House. I trust that it has a speedy passage through this place and also through the Senate. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to reports that the Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria will provide its subscribers with identity cards and that the transactions of its contributors will be recorded by computer? Does he see this as a parallel to the charge by the medical profession that one of the objectionable features of the Government's health scheme is that participants will be issued with identity cards and their transactions recorded by computer? Will he agree that this action is more desirable when taken by a body responsible to the people - that is, the Government - than when it is taken by a private organisation such as the Hospital Benefits Association? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to an answer given in the Victorian Parliament yesterday by the Victorian Minister for Public Works,  Mr Dunstan,  about dry dock facilities at the port of Melbourne in which  Mr Dunstan  is reported as saying that the background to the answer is littered with Commonwealth Government indecision, apparent disinterest, procrastination and cancelled appointments? Can the Minister for Transport say whether there is any basis of fact in that answer, and can he inform the House of the facts? 
Has the Minister for Labour received a commendation from the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  for the initiative he took in convening an industrial peace conference? Is he surprised at the cool reception from the Leader of the Opposition and the State Liberal Minister for Labour? Do they really want industrial peace? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the dispute between Trans-Australian Airlines and its pilots a lock-out? Was the pilot concerned offered alternative employment? If so, did he accept it? Will the Minister give an undertaking that any settlement of the dispute will not place in jeopardy the unparalleled air safety record which exists in Australia? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development been drawn to reports of statements made in the Victorian Parliament by the Minister for Local Governments,  Mr Hunt,  that Victoria would reject the Commonwealth loan for State sewerage programs because 'the interest rates were the worst ever proposed for the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works'? Can the Minister advise the House whether that statement is true and can he also advise whether a further report indicates that Victoria has changed its mind in regard to its acceptance of the $9m sewerage loan? 
In the Federal Division of Burke advice is being given against the Australian Government's proposal to encourage municipalities to join together and work with a common purpose towards the solution of the multitude of problems that exist in them. The recent report on regions, which was made to this Parliament by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and for which he deserves our compliments, has been unjustly described by the State Liberal member for Gisborne as a political hoax. It is surprising to hear this gentleman, who describes himself as a small T Liberal, engage in this sort of fantasy and hallucination when he surely must be aware that the problems which beset municipalities are a direct result of the inadequacies of a series of Liberal governments in Victoria - governments for which he has declared publicly his support. He obviously is completely unaware of what is going on around him. Of course, in this respect he behaves in a manner that is expected of any member of the Liberal Party. If he is expressing the opinion of his Party, then he should be advised that this is the year of grace 1973, not 1873, and that if he seeks he will find. 
I should like to outline the municipalities that are sufficiently concerned with the welfare of their citizens to combine voluntarily with their neighbours to form regions. Werribee, Melton and Keilor, which all fall within the boundaries of the State electorate of Gisborne, have joined with others to form the Western Region. The Shire of Bulla, although a member of the Western Region group, is now looking to the North-western Region, which comprises the shires of Gisborne and Bulla and the cities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick. There is no coercion or threat of coercion, and rather than destroy the identity of municipalities the whole scheme will enhance their status. 
It is a pity that the member for Gisborne did not take the time to read the report and the related Grants Commission Act 1973. Had he bothered to do his homework, he would know that a number of things he has made public with the force of his own uninformed opinion are so much balderash. For instance, he would know that at no time is the State Government bypassed; rather is it an integral part of the whole scheme. He has chosen to say how ridiculous but significant it is that the region the Federal Government has helped to set up as its guinea pig refuses its State parliamentarians any representation on the Western Region Commission. The only ridiculous attitude here is that exhibited by the gentleman himself. 
In one very large and badly drawn breath he puts the State government forward as big brother and as being the best equipped to deal with the problems of local government. At the same time he accuses the Federal Government of denying State parliamentarians representation on regional councils. As if those gratuitous insults to local government by the ill-informed gentleman were not enough, he compounds his ignorance by saying that every so-called region in this State or nation could consider itself underprivileged by its own yardstick. I ask: What does this gentleman think the Grants Commission is all about? Indeed, what does he think his colleague, the State Minister for Local Government, is all about, if not to assess submissions by regions? Does he think that he can so easily write off local government by saying, in effect, that it does not know what the needs of the areas are, that it is not equipped with God-given intelligence to assess needs, that only the State Government can do that and that local government will subsist on the morsels that are handed out to it? 
Let me remind this House that the lack of public transport in Victoria is due to the couldnotcareless attitude of successive Liberal governments in that State. In the proposed North-western Region the public transport system is a farce. The main north-east line to Sydney passes through Broadmeadows, which is only 10 miles from Melbourne. However, electrification of the line ends there, as was the position when electrification was introduced. Housing development extends for more than 2 miles further along this railway line. Numerous deputations and fiery speeches by the honourable member for Broadmeadows,  Mr John  Wilton, have only elicited a promise that 2 new railway stations will be built and electrification extended. Like all Liberal promises, it is the same as a pie crust - made to be broken. 
Five miles beyond Broadmeadows on the same railway line lies the township of Craigieburn. Four hundred families live there; yet there is no electrified rail service to Melbourne. Craigieburn lies within the State electorate of Gisborne, but the gentleman who represents the area has not joined with the deputations or even crooned a protest at the lack of an adequate and modern rail service to either Craigieburn or Sunbury. The Regional Council could push this matter further. Sunbury township is unsewered and can develop no further until it is sewered. How much money is required? It requires only $1.4m over 2 years. Oan the Sewerage Trust get that money? No. I have introduced a deputation to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development who correctly said that he cannot override the State Treasurer. The Minister said that $9m is available to Victoria for sewerage and Sunbury should receive a share of that money. It was the Liberal State Government of Victoria that refused the $9m. Therefore, Sunbury goes unsewered. At least Nero had the decency to play his violin while Rome burned. I wonder if the Member of the Legislative Assembly for Gisborne is strumming his base fiddle while Sunbury goes unsewered Why does he fear councils talking to one another about common problems? Is he not aware that in an area of 400,000 people there is no public hospital of any size? Does he not know that a site exists in Broadmeadows for a public hospital? Can he be ignorant of the fact that the Liberal Government of Victoria has consistently refused to build a hospital in Broadmeadows? How can he sneeringly disparage local government as he has done, endeavour to downgrade the Federal Government's efforts to assist, and smugly say that his Government has all the answers? 
The report issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development insists that regional councils should consist of one elected representative of each council? How else can local government retain its identity if it is to be mixed up in a homegenous brew of State parliamentarians and local councillors? His preference for State parliamentarians being representatives is understandable because I think just as deviously as he does: Put enough State parliamentarians on a regional council and control it so that it will in no way provide an embarrassment to an inept State gov ernment. The moral, intellectual and financial bankruptcy of that government is well known. Yet, ever the victim of his own propaganda, this gentleman from Gisborne describes the Liberal Government of Victoria as a socially aware government. Rather should it be described as a plagiarist government which appears socially aware during an election campaign and, after success, hibernates until the next election. Contrary to the advice given by the backward member of the Liberal Party, I have advised the municipalities in the Northwestern Region that the wise course to follow is contained in the report 'Regions'. The councils in my area are wise and far-seeing. They recognise wisdom when it is espoused and refuse to be counselled by fools. They intend to form a regional council. 
The House has just been privileged, I suppose, to hear an address on economics by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  who I understand had the most esteemed position of professor of economics before he entered this Parliament. However, his speech on this matter leads me to believe - and I am sure those who listened to him would believe - that since coming here he has degenerated to nothing better than a party hack. The stumbling way in which he put his case to this House leaves one in no doubt that he either knows nothing about the subject with which he was expected to deal or else he does not believe in the cause and speaks with tongue in cheek. He says that the economy is in a mess. I am sure that as a professor of economics the honourable gentleman will know that the economy of a nation like Australia cannot be likened to a Holden motor car that can be started and stopped at will. Rather, it is like the boiler of a locomotive that takes some time to build up steam and some time to run down. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has told us on so many occasions, we inherited an economy that was 'bad. This debate started out with a reference to a shortage of goods in the community and the inconveniences and disruptions caused by those shortages. The right honourable the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who I have been told is not much of a farmer and proves himself no better as a politician, put to us that the debate related only to the prices and incomes referendum which, is due to be dealt with next Saturday. He made a rather curious statement - an argument that I found very difficult to follow - when he said: 'If you control prices you will create shortages of goods. People will not produce.' I am wondering how deeply he believes in the private enterprise system because I have always believed that those who believe in the private enterprise system support it because its guiding light is profit. 
A company which started in Melbourne very many years ago is now a very successful retailer throughout Australia. I refer to G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd, without wishing to give any free advertisement. It started out on the basis of a very small profit and a very big turnover of goods. It has been successful. Does the right honourable gentleman want this House to believe that restricting the amount of profits that people can make will cause them to cease production - that they will limit the supply of goods and will not do their utmost to maximise their capital investment in their machinery and their labour? Of course they will. The control of prices has nothing to do with this. We have heard many catch-cries on this subject. Have not we heard the mechanical intonation from &gt;a gentleman who shall not be named who tells this House about the continuing industrial fermentation in this country? How often have we heard it? Never does he support it. Even today when the honourable member for Berowra was speaking he could not help but use another cliche that has become one of the crutches of the ailing Liberal Party. High inflation is a social evil, he says. Perhaps it is an axiomatic statement but does he expect people to believe it because he says it? Does not he believe that they are entitled to an explanation? Is it ever given? 
One of the other comments of the learned and honourable member for Berowra was that because there is a shortage of labour there is a shortage of goods. The honourable member was not in this place when the previous Government brought down a Budget that placed 130,000 Australian people on the labour market. There were 130,000 people who were denied the right to produce goods and services. This adds up to 200 million man-hours of production lost in one year. That was done by the stroke of a pen to get the previous incompetent Government out of some sort of difficulty in which it found itself. There was an election looming in December 1972 and it lost. But one of the prices that the people of Australia had to pay was that 130,000 people were denied work at some time for a whole year. Labor has corrected that situation. There are now more job vacancies than there are people to fill them. Yet honourable members opposite still complain about labour shortages. Where is their consistency? Did honourable members opposite raise the fact that by the stroke of a pen their Government denied the production of goods and services in this country to the tune of 200 million manhours in one year? Honourable members opposite cannot deny that. 

 - His interjections are so puerile that they are not worth acknowledging. The honourable member for Berowra spoke about a shortage of building materials and a shortage of consumer durable goods including furniture and furnishings. Would the honourable member like to know where those excess materials have gone? Would he like to take a tour of the cities of Melbourne and Sydney? Would be like to walk around and see the high rise office buildings which have been constructed for investment purposes by entrepreneurs in the hope of making profits in the future? Those buildings are lying idle. They are not occupied. They were constructed with the same sorts of materials that are used to build houses such as steel, bricks and concrete. They have furnishings, carpets, curtains, desks and chairs but they are not being used. Does the honourable gentleman know that they exist? Is not that part of the reason for the shortage of building materials? He talks about the shortage of manpower. It takes men to construct buildings, too. Whilst men are erecting these high rise buildings in the cities of Melbourne and Sydney they cannot be erecting villas in which workers can live. That is how the shortage of building materials comes about. I move back quickly to the high price of food. One of the highest priced food commodities that my wife buys is meat. The reason that she has to pay so much for meat is that the local butcher who supplies her must compete with overseas buyers for the meat that we eat. Will the Australian Country Party stand up and be honest about this? The honourable gentleman who claims to represent the farmers of Australia will not come into this House and tell us that he will be prepared to support a proposition to ban the export of Australian meat to ensure that the price to consumers drops. Of course he will not. Yet that action would be a logical solution to the problem and everybody knows it. The man in the street knows it, but the erudite gentlemen who sit opposite do not. When we talk of the shortage of manpower we are really talking about the shortage of tradesmen in Australia. How did we get a shortage of tradesmen? I shall tell honourable members: We have this shortage because the previous Government had a policy of employing contractors on its jobs rather than training its own tradesmen. The effect of this flowed through to industry generally. Contractors had to compete with one another to get the jobs. This procedure was justified on the basis of saying: 'We got the job done as cheaply as we could'. But did the previous Government look at the longterm social consequences to Australia? No, it never did. 
Because the contractors had to cut corners and get the job done as cheaply as they could to compete with their fellow-contractors they were not in a position to spend the money that was necessary to be spent to train tradesmen. So the previous Government imported fully-fledged tradesmen from overseas. Now we suffer from a chronic shortage of Australian born tradesmen trained in Australia for Australian conditions. Why? Because of the bad management of the previous Government. The Opposition members stand up here today and speak with their tongues in their cheeks as only members of the Liberal Party or members of the Australian Country Party can speak with tongues in cheeks. They have done it and they have tried to convince this House and this nation that what they did was right and that what this Government is doing is wrong. History will show them and the people will show them the next time that we go to our masters just who was right and who was wrong. There is no doubt in my mind that the people of Australia today support more than ever before, more than in December 1972, the measures taken by the Australian Government and will continue to support them. As long as there is a Labor Government in Australia there will be stability and industry will know where it is going because there will be proper planning. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware of media reports yesterday which suggested that Ansett Airlines of Australia was well ahead of Trans-Australian Airlines in the business battle between the airlines, based on annual reports tabled by him on Tuesday? Does the Minister interpret the financial results of the airlines' activities to mean that Trans-Australian Airlines is a less efficient business enterprise than Ansett? 
It is a matter of great regret to me that in the course of the debate on a matter as serious as this one the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  should stoop to a pretty low political trick. The honourable member commended the Government on the removal of the discrimination between male and female employees. It would have been rather disappointing had he done anything less than that. However, the honourable gentleman then moved into an area that is of great concern to many people in this House and of course outside it - that is, the terrible disease of epilepsy and the effect that this has on people who are or intend to be employees in the Australian Public Service. That matter has been raised many times. I am quite sure that whilst very little was done about it by previous governments this present Government, which has a more humane attitude than governments which preceded it, will look at this matter and come up with a solution to it. 
Having made some contribution to the debate, the honourable gentleman destroyed all of the good impression that he had made when he started to talk about retrospective furlough entitlement. Even on this he was not quite sure what he was talking about. It struck me as rather curious that a gentleman from the other side of this House, a member of one of those Parties that consistently opposes the Government and consistently in this House raises the question of spending in the Public Service and constantly criticises the Government for the way it is alleged to be spending as though money was going out of fashion, by his own admission and by his own words should suggest that a further $180m ought to be spent. He, in his own way I suppose, thought that he was giving the Government a bit of a caning on this issue. He did say that the Government was breaking an agreement. I thought that the honourable gentleman was a lawyer before he came into this place. As a lawyer I thought he would know that an agreement requires 2 parties. If he knows that, he would know that there was never ever an agreement between the Government and the Public Service unions on this matter. It was a matter that was raised in Cabinet and decided in Cabinet. As a matter of fact, the same matter is now a matter of negotiation between the Government and the Public Service unions. 
If his concern is really for the Australian Public Service employees, as he tried to lead us to believe it was, I point out that in the time he has been here and since the time that his confreres in another place, both from his own Party and the other coalition Party, refused to pass the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill that now lies in some sort of cupboard in the musty archives of the Senate. He has never stood up in this place and condemned them for doing so. Does he not know that that Bill on its own would give greater benefit to more Commonwealth Public Service employees than any retrospectivity of furlough back to the date of commencement of duty? Perhaps he would like to speak about it ito his colleagues in the Senate and try to lean on them to bring this matter forward and agree to it so that humane treatment can be given to those workers who, through no fault of their own, are injured while they are in the employ of the Australian Public Service. I suppose that on all matters such as this where something positive can be done the honourable gentleman will remain silent and will raise his voice only when he thinks there is some cheap political trick to be scored off the Government. 
One of the 2 Bills which we are debating is entitled the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Bill. It is to amend the Act of the same name to reduce the qualifying period for furlough for Commonwealth employees from IS years to 10 years, as a right. As well as doing that it removes all those niggling little phrases that refer to unsatisfactory service and such nebulous matters that could have been used in the past by governments, as the employer, to deny furlough benefits to public servants who have given many years of service. The honourable gentleman did not mention that, but it is a very important part of the Bill - very important indeed. It gives greater security to the employees of the Australian Government. 
Public Service Bill (No. 4) with which we are also dealing is to amend the law relating to the Public Service. It changes the Public Service Act in a number of areas. It removes discrimination against women, as has been indicated. Contrary to what the honourable gentleman said, knowing the vagaries of people and their views on things I think it is essential that an anti-discriminatory clause be written in to reduce to words that principle so that it cannot be misunderstood. The Bill also removes the need for the taking of oaths or affirmations. I am not surprised that honourable members who sit opposite are trying to make a hobby horse of this sort of thing. After all, these are only a tradition and those who sit opposite rely on tradition because they are conservatives. But nobody has been able to explain to me why an oath or affirmation is such holy writ and why or how they change the attitude or thinking of the people who make them. Surely a person is not going to obey the oath simply because he has to mouth it. How does it change things? If a person is honest and sincere he will obey a rule anyway. It seems to me that this requirement is just another degradation of people who are employed in the Australian Public Service. It is rather curious that section 55.(1.) of the Public Service Act provides: 
An officer (other than an officer of the First or Second Division) who- 
The section goes on to provide that other officers must swear an oath. Why is an officer in the First or Second Division different from any other officer in the Public Service? It is the Government's intention to remove the discriminations which at present lie in that Act. The Bill provides also - I am sure that all people in Australia would agree with this provision - that the title will be changed from the Commonwealth Public Service to the Australian Public Service. The people of Australia more and more are becoming pleased that this Government is giving an identity to the country by constantly using the word 'Australian'. We are proud of it. We are not ashamed of it and we do not disguise it by using another word that indicates a far broader scope than Australia. 'Commonwealth' tends to indicate a very large number of countries and nations throughout the world - a hangover of the British Empire. But we in the Australian Labor Party, in government, are determined to change things in Australia and give a national identity to people, even if it is only by using the word 'Australia' and being proud of using it. The words 'Australia' and 'Australian' are being used proudly and are not being swept under the rug. 
The rest of the Bill relates to consequential changes necessary for the reduction of the qualifying period for furlough from 15 years to 10 years. The 2 measures are important in their own ways. The furlough Bill is only one first step. I am surprised, the honourable gentleman opposite and his confreres having always told us that on the question of inflation and all the rest of it we ought to confer with the State Premiers, that today he is berating us for conferring with the various Ministers for Labour in the States in an endeavour to obtain a national long service leave scheme. So again inconsistency shows through. 
This Bill takes the first step and reduces the qualifying period. Other Bills will follow to alter the accrual rate for furlough and a number of other things. But they cannot be brought forward yet because there is a risk that they will prejudice negotiations that are taking place between the Australian Government Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the various State government Ministers for Labour. So the matter rests there. I commend both measures to the House. It has been indicated that amendments will be moved during the Committee stages of the Bill. But, be that as it may, they will have to be faced when they are presented to us. I have read through both Bills carefully and have found nothing at all in them that could possibly be objectionable either to the Opposition or to the Australian people. They certainly satisfy the Government and for that reason I commend them to the House. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I am very cognisant of the fact that I cannot put my question on notice and that it does ask for detailed information. How many offices and how much floor space are occupied by the Press in this Parliament House? How much is paid by each newspaper in rent and what are the implied or expressed terms of occupancy? Is it true that the secretariats of at least 2 statutory committees of this Parliament are being asked to seek accommodation outside this building? Will you confer with the  President  of the Senate to discuss the future of office space now occupied by the Press with a view to having it available for officers of the Parliament and/or members? 
I feel obliged to enter into the debate on this very important question because I have been listening attentively to all that has been said and it seems to me that the arguments being put by honourable members opposite bear within them a very great contradiction. Over the last couple of days that this Parliament has met it has been made very clear by honourable members on the other side of the House that they feel they have been given insufficient time to debate the very important measures that are constantly coming before this Parliament. I interpolate here to say that all of the measures introduced by the present Government are of course important measures. But I am sure that the very vast audience which is listening to this debate today will realise the contradiction. We have just had 2 Opposition speakers in succession and every  speaker  who has spoken from the Opposition side of the House has criticised the extension of the hours of the sittings. 
It seems to me that the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  the previous  speaker,  was more concerned with being in his electorate than he was with sitting in the national House of Parliament, which he was elected to do. I think that view is justifiable, but the fact is that he was not elected to be a social worker in his electorate. He was elected to come to this Parliament and speak in this chamber. I recognise that the social worker part of his job is very important, but we do not live in an age where communication is carried out by smoke signals. We live in an age where people can move rapidly from one part of the country to another. My heart bleeds for those members who talk about the number of hours they spend travelling to this place in this day and age. I would invite them to go back to previous days and see the time that was spent by members to come to this Parliament to perform the duty which the electors gave him. 
I have been in this House long enough to remember a previous occasion when, under a former government there was a debate conducted in this Parliament as to whether the Parliament should adjourn at 10 p.m. or 10.30 p.m. each evening. I also remember on that occasion - the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  was Prime Minister - it was alleged by all the parties that there was a free vote on this issue. There certainly was a free vote by Australian Labor Party members but I well remember about 2 or 3 members of the Cabinet - I do not think they were prominent members, but they were Ministers at the time - who sat themselves down amongst those of us who were voting in a particular way. Apparently this was in contradistinction to a view that had been taken earlier by the Cabinet because the then Prime Minister came and wagged his finger at them. A vote was taken on the very issue we are now talking about, namely, curtailing the hours of the House so that we would not sit into the early hours of the morning when we have had the spectacle of members lying underneath their bench because they were exhausted, and having to be propped up when a division was taken so that the tellers could see them. That used to occur at about 4 o'clock in the morning. We do not get a lot of sense out of Liberal and Country Party members in this Parliament at the best of times, but to expect to get sense out of them at 4 o'clock in the morning or beyond 1 1 o'clock at night I think is justing asking for a little too much. 
I commend the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, for the introduction of the 1 1 o'clock rising procedure. I also commend him on the proposition which he has placed before honourable members today and I urge honourable members to vote solidly in favour of it because I have heard no valid argument today to the contrary. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  put to us that the criterion for legislation was quality and not quantity. Frankly, I could not agree with him more but whatever yardstick one cares to use for measuring the legislation that was introduced into this Parliament last year, I am quite satisfied that it would measure up to any one of those yardsticks, whether on the quantitative or qualitative aspect. 
So I would seriously urge all members of the House to support the proposition put by the Minister. It carries with it a lot of sense. It provides continuity and a timetable that will not be introduced into this House one week before the event. It is a timetable that is available to every member now so that their diaries can be arranged and their times in the electorate arranged accordingly. It is not as if on Friday honourable members will receive a telegram or a telephone call instructing them to be in this House on Tuesday. Members now know the days on which they will be required in this House for every month of this year until June. 'I commend the proposition to the Parliament. The arguments that were put against it were quite specious and emotional and without any foundation in fact. 
The speech which we have just heard from the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  would probably be regarded as one of the most curious speeches that has ever been made in this House. There is ample evidence of the attitude of the Australian people towards those unfortunate victims in Queensland and in the northern areas of New South Wales of the recent floods, and for that matter the flooding that is still occurring. The honourable member took to task some people and said that they were trying to make political capital out of all this. Having explained the bad position of all these people the honourable member then had a snide shot at the Prime Minister'  (Mr Whitlam)  by saying that he was not there. I do not know what the Prime Minister's presence would have done to ameliorate the position of the people who were caught in the floods. I do not think those people wanted him to mend their fences. I think they wanted Federal money to do that themselves. The Prime Minister certainly looked at the situation. 
Then the honourable member for Fisher turned his attack on the Lord Mayor of the city of Brisbane and alleged that that man had not acted with all propriety in retaining the water in the Somerset Dam rather than letting it go. He did not bother to tell us what the consequences would have been had the water been let go. The honourable member then called for an inquiry into the matter. Surely he is not suggesting that this Federal Parliament could interfere in the affairs of a corporate city and inquire into the actions of the Lord Mayor of that city. The honourable member quite rightly said that the people whose land was inundated with water had lost their incomes for a year, and he suggested that they might even lose their incomes for next year. He was not in this House when those whom he now supports callously and needlessly threw out of work over 100,000 Australians. The families of 100,000 Australians lost their incomes, some of them for a year. For some of them it meant using all the savings they had accumulated over a number of years, and they are not yet back on their feet. But this attack is the curious sort of morality that we have come to expect from that corner of the House in which the honourable member sits. 
The purpose of this debate is to consider the reply which was prepared by a committee of this House and very ably moved and seconded in this place by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie).  That reply was in response to an address made to this Parliament by  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth, Queen of Australia, as she herself has said she is pleased to be known. Arising out of that reply the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  - I think he is the Leader of the Opposition although I sometimes feel that somebody else is pulling the strings - moved an amendment in which he suggested that the Speech did not take into account certain things. One of the matters which this gentleman talks about quite frequently, and in his view quite fluently, is that of inflation. As an ex-Treasurer of this country who presided over one of our worst economic periods, a man-made crisis, he would probably know what he is talking about. He started to confuse me because he threw the word 'inflation' around very glibly and made me wonder whether he knew what it really meant. I am quite sure that the people who read about and listen to what happens in this House must be as confused as I am. 
I believe that the Leader of the Opposition tries to convey to the average man that inflation means high food prices and high land prices. In some way or another he tried to blame the Labor Government for these too high prices. He led the fight in this House and outside it to encourage the people of Australia not to give the Australian Government the power to control prices. I think it was the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  who earlier today read from newspapers to show how prices had increased over the last 12 months. I think it is pretty significant that the prices which he did quote related to food. We all know who produces food. The farmers produce the food. Therefore the inference must be drawn - and I think it is quite clear - that the high prices being paid by the average city dweller for his food contribute greatly to the income of the average farmer, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  Yet these are the very same gentlemen whom honourable members opposite claim to represent, who are apparently reaping the benefits of this inflation. Honourable members opposite come into this House intent in every way to discredit this Government and to blame it for the inflation which it has inherited from the previous incompetent Government 
In the case of high land prices we have to ask ourselves who is getting the benefit of these prices? Quite clearly, it is the owners of large tracts of land and the real estate developers. I do not think that any of these people are members of a trade union or that they are necessarily members of the Australian Labor Party. Nor do they contribute funds to the coffers of the Labor Party. I believe that quite the reverse is the case. So once again honourable members opposite come into this House and raise their voices about the high rate of inflation. They talk about the high price of this and the high price of that. Yet it is those who support them who are benefiting from the high prices. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  goes further and blames inflation on something called the high degree of government spending. He suggests that there should be a cutback in government spending. In one breath he says that the Government should cut back government spending and in the next breath he says that the Government has not increased the rate of pensions enough - and that involves government spending. He says that the Government is not spending enough on defence, and that again means government spending. He says that the Government is not spending enough money on this and that. The Leader of the Opposition wants to have two bob each way. He should make up his mind whether he wants the Government to cut down on spending or do the things that he is continuously telling us that we should do. What the right honourable gentleman says is a complete and utter contradiction. There is no way in which these two objectives can be reconciled. Yet the right honourable gentleman comes into this place quite regularly and continues to contradict himself day after day on these 2 very important issues. 
The Leader of the Opposition then turned his attention to productivity. Probably it is fairer to say that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will raise this question of productivity. But he raised it in such a way that it carries the connotation that slothful workers in this country are the cause of low productivity. He went on to beat the drum about how industrial unrest and strikes destroy productivity in this country. I have some figures which I believe have come from a reliable source which show that time lost through disputes in 1971 was approximately 9.3 seconds per man hour worked whilst the time lost through accidents and so on was approximately 18.72 seconds per man hour worked, which is over double. The figures also show that the time lost in 1972 through disputes was 8.64 seconds per man hour worked and time lost through accidents was 20.16 seconds per man hour worked. It is pretty clear that it is not strikes and industrial unrest that are causing lack of productivity, if this is a contributing factor but rather industrial accidents, which occur nine times out of ten because the employer refuses to comply with regulations and make work safe for his men. We have to realise that there are two sides to the production process. There is not only the workman at his bench but also, as they care to call themselves, managers who do not necessarily require training to fill their positions. These people place themselves in the position of being responsible for the output of the factory and the organisation of the whole show. It is in the area of management and not in the area of diligence by its work force that Australia lacks at the moment. The work force in Australia is probably more diligent and more applied to its task than any other work force in the world, but it is let down badly on the management side. Very few people in Australia can justify bearing the title 'Manager'. Let us not forget the dithering over revaluation when the Country Party would not allow the Liberal 
Party some 2 years ago to revalue the dollar. They spent 3 days talking about that without coming to a conclusion. This, it is estimated, caused the transfer of about $ 1,000m from one section of the community to another, obviously from those who are not rich to those who are. 
During the Address-in-Reply debate a great deal has been said about the 5 referenda that are to be put to the people of Australia. There seems to be some lack of understanding by members on the other side of the House as to what a referendum is all about. They seem to be under the impression that by introducing a number of these matters into the House somehow or other this House will pass judgment on them. In fact the Government is, in effect, asking the Opposition for permission to ask the people of Australia to pass judgment on them - not the parliamentarians but the people of Australia. Seven questions have been put before this House in the time that I have been here, and in the short time for which the Australian Labor Party has been in government those on the other side have consistently opposed us and said: 'No, those questions should not go to the people. We do not need their advice on these questions. We know and we will vote accordingly'. 
Mention was made earlier of gerrymanders and a lot was said about the position in Queensland under a Labor Government when a gerrymander took place and Labor governed with something less than half the total vote. The honourable member who said this neglected to mention that the Labor Premier of the time is no longer a member of the Labor Party but is in fact a member of the Democratic Labor Party - and that last Saturday, next Saturday or the Saturday after that he did or will marry into the Country Party. There will be a gorgeous alliance with people like the Premier of Queensland who sits in judgment on others, calls his State a sovereign State - nobody has yet explained to me what that expression means - and holds sway on something less than 19 per cent of the vote. He trotted off to London at the expense of the poor old taxpayers of Queensland and went to the Queen to put some sort of case. She had to smack him on the fingers and say: Look here, you naughty boy; Queensland is no longer a colony; it is part of the Commonwealth of Australia. You had better go back and behave yourself and realise that you now have a national government'. The honourable member who told us what was happening in Queensland under a Labor government forgot to say that the Playford Liberal Government of South Australia had been in government in that State for 25 years on 32 per cent of the vote. Even today we do not have a Labor government in Victoria because the ruling Liberal Party is governing that State on about 42 per cent of the vote. Honourable members talk about gerrymanders having been introduced by Labor but I am afraid that we were novices and did not do the job properly. 
It is about time that the people of Australia were asked the questions which are proposed to be asked of them by referenda. The 5 questions obviously concern constitutional amendments for they deal with a Constitution which is more than 70 years old. The Australian Government will ask that this Constitution be reformed. It still has not reached the minds of many people sitting on the opposite side in this Parliament that Australia has grown up over the 70 years, that Victoria is no longer the Port Phillip district of the colony of New South Wales and that the 6 States in Australia have not been invaded by a foreign government. In fact, we have a national government. With the Whitlam Labor Government, for the first time in our history, we do have a national government. The States have a role to play but they certainly cannot claim to be sovereign States or anything of that order. The Australian Government, being national and international in character, is very aware of the role played by the third tier of government - local government. Once again it intends to ask the .people whether they want their local government - the level of government to which it is claimed they are closest- to have access to the Loan Council so that it may enjoy the same rights as the States and not be just a Cinderella and a creature of the States to be brought forward and disbanded at will. 
Speaking about States rights, sovereign rights, national governments, national parliaments and asking people questions, it is my firm belief that under the rather loose system that operates in Australia so far as the States are concerned, it must be understood and it is understood that the Australian Government works in a rather tight straight jacket. For this reason the people must be asked whether that straightjacket ought to be loosened. I believe that any one of the 6 State parliaments could simply, by Act of Parliament, suspend all elections. That is the situation we have. 
It is the sort of situation that cannot be allowed to continue. All the people of Australia would be asked a question during the referendum, not just the 19 per cent who vote in the very strategically placed electorates in Queensland to perpetuate the archaic Country Party Government in that State. 
This Government has made advances in many areas, apart from the obvious ones of education and pensions. It has adopted a new attitude towards immigration. No longer can the old white Australia bogey be pointed at Australia. Australia walks much taller in Asia because of that. Let me refer to this Government's attitude towards servicemen. Nobody ever tells us who is going to attack us but they keep telling us that we are going to be attacked, and they want us to double the size of our Army or something like that. I read in this morning's Press that the ratio of officers to enlisted men in the Australian Army is something like one officer to every 6.3 enlisted men. That is the highest ratio in the whole wide world. I do not know whether it is suggested that we should double the number of officers so that every third bloke in the Army is an officer, or whether we ought to increase the number of enlisted men. Whichever way it goes, it has been claimed that the morale of the armed Services is low. I think that I have as much association with servicemen as anybody in this House has, and that has not been my experience. In fact the morale of those to whom I have spoken is high. They are pleased with the things that the Australian Labor Party Government has done for them. They look forward to more, and they can expect it. They are in no way deterred by the attitudes of the Australian Labor Party Government. In fact they are pleased that there has been a change of government. 
The question of alliances always arises. I do not know alliances with whom and for what. But instead of talking about alliances between governments we ought to be talking about alliances between people and an understanding by people of people. Quite recently I was in one of the States of the United States of America and I thought I would question some American citizens about Australia to find out what they knew about it. Not very many had even heard of it. Some of them knew where it was. Some of them had heard of it and had a rough idea of where it was. When I asked people what they thought about affairs in Australia I found that they just did not care. So an alliance between governments is no alliance at all unless there is an alliance between people. At the moment there is no alliance between the Australian people and the American people because nothing is done to promote it. 
But certainly there are alliances. The situation is entirely different in the South East Asian region. There is an alliance between the people of South East Asia and the people of Australia. Australian people know about their Asian neighbours. Our Asian neighbours know about us. There is an affinity between the people. We have heard enough - I almost said crap' but I suppose that is unparliamentary - about the Governments of Malaysia and Singapore being angry with the Australian Government. Once again from speaking with these people I have found that Australia's flag has never been higher in that area than it is now. Our esteem has never been higher. They are pleased that we have an Australian Labor Party Government. They are pleased that at last we have a Prime Minister who is not only national but also international, who is known in this area - not only well known but also known well. The attitude that Australia is now adopting towards the region is appreciated. Australians are complimented wherever they go. This is the way in which Australia should have been regarded for many decades past instead of our being allowed to drift along like a rudderless ship of state. But now, finally, a navigator of esteem has taken the helm and is steering Australia towards the destiny that is rightfully ours. No longer are we a European country or an appendage to Europe. We are an Asian country and we should be proud of that fact. Those who live around us are proud to know us and we should be proud to know them. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Garland)  adjourned. 
It gives me great pleasure to join in this debate, especially after such a competent  speaker  as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  But competent  speaker  that he may be, it is unfortunate that he does not always abide by the facts. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition may tell the truth about me anytime he pleases. 
It is quite infrequent that he tells the truth but if he cares to tell it about me he may. 
I am sorry,  Mr Speaker,  but I was distracted by other people. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke about serious concern mirrored in the faces of the Government's advisers. For his information I was watching their faces very carefully. They are very imperturbable people. They gave no response to show whether or not they were concerned and in fact I think that would be true in respect of the Australian community generally. They do not show any concern one way or the other as to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is saying about this, that or the other. 
The purpose of the Australian Tourist Commission Bill is, as outlined by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  to broaden the scope of the Australian Tourist Commission to enable it not only to engage in encouraging people from overseas to travel to Australia and within Australia but also to remove the straitj acket which bound it to deal only with people who are not Australians. When this Bill is enacted it will enable the Commission to work harmoniously in conjunction with the travel and tourist bureaus of the various States and the private enterprise organisations engaged in domestic transport and tourist promotion within Australia. The Minister has already told the House that Australians on short term visits overseas spend in other countries about $359m a year whereas those short term visitors which we attract to Australia spend only $ 139m a year here. If our national trading account were conducted on this basis we would very quickly have a gigantic deficit and uproar would prevail in the business community. 
My own knowledge and personal experience is that there is an almost insatiable desire on the part of Australians to visit countries overseas. The isolation of the Australian continent and the relative remoteness of even our nearest overseas neighbours, plus the exotic atmosphere conjured up by travel brochures, leave those Australians who can afford it anxious to board a ship or a plane and visit areas overseas. The solution now is easier than it has been in the past because of the ready availability of means of travel. I suppose the desire of Australians to travel overseas is historical plus the fact that many of our new residents were born overseas and they no doubt have a desire to return to the country of their birth and visit relatives and friends who are now far away. As one who has had the opportunity to travel widely in Australia and to have visited other countries, I have no doubt that Australia should be seen by Australians before visiting other places. I say that purely on the basis of the many geographical and therefore natural beauties of the continent, the bustle of the cities, the wide expanses of the finest beaches in the world, the unique flora and fauna, the deserts and semi-arid areas and for contrast the wonderland of the coastal areas with the ever-changing panorama of bays, coves, rivers and cliffs. 
The habits of people are hard to change. I wonder how many temporarily departing Australians would be persuaded not to leave but to stay and spend the rest of their vacation in Australia. I believe that very few could be persuaded because their motives are not readily available. A person born overseas must travel overseas to visit relatives and friends. A person who has visited places of interest in Australia and still wishes to travel must travel overseas. There are probably some Australians who travel overseas because the lure of travel brochures from overseas is stronger than the lure of local travel brochures. The obvious solution to this vexed question is to introduce a more co-ordinated approach. This Bill, when enacted, will provide just that co-ordination. A greater appeal must be made to Australians to, if I may coin a phrase, see Australia first. If successful this would reduce the outflow of Australian money to overseas countries. A corollary, of course, would be a more vigorous approach to attract people from overseas to leave their money in Australia. 
I have always been astounded at the curious attitude adopted by exponents of the so-called free enterprise system when, under great public pressure, they established a government operation - in this case to promote tourism - and then neatly handcuffed it so that it was incapable of fully performing the task for which it was established. The Australian Tourist Commission is the case in point. Having established it in 1967 because of a recognition of the need for a central organising agency, the government of the day ensured that it was a tourist commission in name only and would provide no real threat to the private sector of the tourist industry. Unfortunately this narrow, doctrinaire attitude is self-defeating and contradictory. If the tourism industry is to blossom and develop upon rational and therefore economically sound lines, each constituent part of the industry must know where it is going, and, indeed, so must the customers. People who travel are vulnerable to being abandoned in strange places and rely entirely on the integrity, the substance and the reliability of those who organise their tours. It is pleasing to know that this Government attaches great importance to the tourist industry. So much so, in fact, that a portfolio has been established and a Minister is responsible for tourism and recreation. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  spoke at some length about the attraction of Phillip Island in his own electorate. He spoke of the fairy penguins there. In my own electorate I have no fairy penguins, being so far from the sea. But there are many attractions in Australia which are attractive not only to Australians, who unfortunately do not seem to take the opportunity to visit these places - principally I think because they are not promoted to the extent to which they should be, such as the Great Barrier Reef. Relying on my own experience, having seen coral reefs in other parts of the world and having seen parts of the Great Barrier Reef, I can assure the honourable members of this House that no attraction anywhere in the world is as fine, as attractive or as natural as the Australian Great Barrier Reef. It is spoken of around the world, but how many people go to see it? I think that I might have mentioned at an earlier time that whilst visiting the holiday resort of the Hawaiian Islands recently I spoke to some people there who had travelled the 5,000 miles from the American mainland to visit those islands as a resort. They had neither heard of Australia nor cared very much about it anyhow. That to me is something of a tragedy. It is a situation that should not be allowed to continue by those of us who believe in the greatness of the Australian continent, who believe in the attractions of the natural climate and the endearments of Australia. We should be showing them to the rest of the world. We should be attracting tourists to Australia. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition went to great lengths to talk about accommodation in Australia. I know that he has travelled outside Australia many times. I believe and presume that he has travelled widely within Australia. If that is so, he would know that accommodation in Australia is comparable with accommodation anywhere else in the world. 
I am glad that you do because I do not know where the honourable member lives when he is away from home or what sort of a home he occupies when he is there. But I occupy quite a humble home and I have never found accommodation in Australia that I would regard as sub-standard. Recently, visiting the outback town of Tennant Creek I found accommodaton there which was comparable with any accommodation in any capital city in Australia - and if you can find any place more remote from the capital cities than Tennant Creek I'll go he. So the honourable member obviously speaks with his fingers in his ears, as he generally does. The accommodation in Australia is not to be downgraded. It is the attitude of people like the honourable member that brings about the tendency of Australians to downgrade their own nation. I say to the honourable members of this House and to people in Australia: 'Do not downgrade our nation. Be proud of it. Be proud of being Australian and extol Australia's virtues rather than try to write them down.' 
I am grateful for your protection,  Mr Speaker.  I badly need it. I shall twist something other than the truth if I get near enough to the honourable member. The way in which this Bill has been dealt with by the Opposition so far I think has been commendable, except that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition could not resist the opportunity to have some sort of a shot at the Government about some sort of alleged failings on the part of the Government to promote the industry. The honourable gentleman probably has very many important things to do and he is away doing some of them now. But I trust that he is listening to what is being said and that he will understand that the matter that he introduced in the latter part of his speech in this House on the Australian Tourist Commission Bill 1973 was not altogether truthful and did not entirely reflect the attitude of the Government towards this very important industry. 
I think the very action of the Government in introducing this Bill indicates how important the Australian Government considers this industry. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition spoke about fiscal policies of the Government that he alleged were doing a disservice to the Australian tourist industry. With the greatest respect to all those involved it has been my experience that tourists are never niggardly about paying what they are asked to pay. As I can understand the situation, having travelled not only in Australia but also in other countries, the cost of travel in Australia, considering the difficulties involved, is not expensive. The cost of accommodation, considering the standard, is not expensive either by world standards. One would find accommodation of a lower standard at a higher price overseas, and the cost of transport is approximately the same as overseas. So there is no valid argument to put forward that economics is a reason for the non-attraction of people to travel to Australia or within Australia. It is clearly and simply a lack of promotion, the leaving of this matter in the hands of the so-called private enterprise sector which is in fact in competition with itself and determined to get a share of the market for itself and never interested in coming together and promoting the common cause, the promotion of the Australian tourist industry. 
The broadening of the Australian Tourist Commission will enable it to engage in domestic travel and tourism as well as tourism from overseas. No longer does the situation prevail where people with pure self-interest at heart engage in tourism, but rather is there an organisation answerable to a Minister of the Crown responsible, capable and willing to promote all of the things about Australia which we want people to see. Not only is it important to bring people from overseas to see them; I think it is even more important that people from our own country be encouraged to travel within Australia on the domestic airlines, railways or road lines rather than being encouraged to go overseas. Every dollar that leaves this country in the pocket of a tourist is a dollar that is lost to Australia and a dollar that is going to somebody else. 
I come back to my earlier point of the deficit that exists between the spending of Australians overseas and the income available to Australia from tourists who come here. If a deficit situation were to exist in a rural industry - for example, were we buying more wool than we were selling - I am sure that there are people in this House as well as across the country who would raise very strong arguments as to why that situation should not continue. But, because the tourist industry is not regarded as being of the same substance as rural industries concerned with the buying and selling of wool and wheat, that industry does not seem to receive the same sort of attention. In fact, a discussion of the deficit situation in the tourist industry seems to be treated with some sort of levity in this chamber. 
It is of great importance that the amount of more than $200m a year is drifting away from this country and going into the pockets of people overseas. If those who sit on the opposite side of the House claim that they are the managers of this country, that they are the business people and that they know what business is all about - I freely confess that I do not - then I am surprised that they have not taken stronger action about this matter before now. This legislation was commissioned in 1967 and it was not until that very great day, 2 December 1972, that a very great change took place in this country and for the first time in 23 years the country found itself with a government that was willing to govern, prepared to goyern and determined to govern and some sort of leadership was shown to the community. Had it not been for that day - I am sure that all Australians are grateful for it - the situation that existed over the 12 months prior to that day and for the years preceding that period would have continued, would have been compounded and would have escalated. Instead of the gap being only $200m a year, it would have been in fact doubled, trebled, quadrupled or even worse. 
I am pleased to hear from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that there is no opposition to this legislation. Bearing this in mind, I am rather astounded that about 7 honourable members on the other side of the House have listed themselves to speak on this legislation. It will be rather pleasing to hear what they have to say and how they are all going to support the legislation. As one who not only has travelled in the past but also intends to travel in the future, I trust that the opportunity will arise at a later stage for me once again to speak on tourism in the House. Perhaps at that time I can give a travelogue with accompanying colour slides. For the time being, I commend the Bills to the House. I do not think there is any need to do that with any vim, vigour or fire. I do not think there is any real opposition to the legislation and there ought not be lengthy debate on it. I think that most of the things that need to be said have been said. I am sure that if anything has been left out it will be covered by later speakers. 
As has been said already, the matter with which the House is dealing today is the distribution of the surplus that has accumulated in the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. During his address to this House the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  spoke of the accumulation of this vast sum as though it was something that happened overnight. He was rather horrified to think that such a large amount of money - $70m - should have 'been allowed to accumulate. It is unfortunate that the honourable member for Canning did not go all the way and say to the House that this amount has been accumulating since 1967. It should be remembered that it was not until 2 December 1972 that Australia gained responsible government. Until that date Australia was in the hands of people who had no knowledge of how to govern or had any intention of governing. This sum has been accumulated over a period of time. The reason why it has accumulated is that the contributions by the employees and the Australian Government as their employer have been invested at a far more favourable rate than the Commonwealth actuary expected them to earn. As a result there has been an accumulation of funds amounting in total to $7 Om. 
I agree that this surplus ought to be distributed back to those who have contributed to the Fund during the period under review. However, I think it should bear mentioning that this very situation points up the failure - I suppose that is the correct way to describe the situation- of the existing superannuation schemes. It is to the credit of the present Government that some attention will be given to this matter and that a scheme that is far more equitable than the one that has existed for a long time will be introduced. The fact that a fund that covers only public servants can accumulate a surplus to the extent that this Fund has brings to mind the thoughts that the funds of the community could be marshalled for the good of the community if there were a scheme to which everybody contributed instead of one to which only those who are employed by the Australian Government and who are thereby covered by the Public Service superannuation scheme contributed. 
The mind starts to boggle when one thinks of the huge sums of money that would be available for lending to the community for community projects and community works. There could be a constant well to which each constituent part of the community could go with its bucket and draw its particular part of these funds. There is nothing strange about that I know that the funds of the present scheme are loaned to local government bodies for capital works, such as the construction of sewerage systems and a number of other things and that the money borrowed is paid back with interest. The actuaries have worked our very well what rate of interest the local government bodies should pay for these funds. That in turn has contributed to the rather large surplus about which we are now speaking. 
In the interim we have to ask ourselves for what purpose these funds have been used and how they attract an interest rate which enables the accumulation of a surplus of some S70m. In that respect the Fund has performed a public service in so far as it has enabled a number of statutory bodies throughout the length and breadth of the country to perform specific tasks that they would not have been able to perform had these. moneys not been available as a source of borrowing. I touch on that only lightly. It is a subject which is not the subject matter of the Bill before us at present but a subject which would bear very deep and intense debate. 
The fact that the Fund has been able to accumulate a surplus of $70m now seems to be the subject of the debate. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  made mention of the fact that the present Government has been very generous to public servants. He went on to say that the present Government should be saying that it is the best government for Australia and Australians. I am not sure who the honourable member thinks public servants are, but I would like to remind him that public servants are recruited in Australia and are Australian people and that they comprise a very large section of the Australian community. In fact they comprise a very leading section of the Australian community because the things which accrue to public servants generally flow on to the community. So there is a great benefit there. 
The Government has looked very carefully at the whole question of superannuation and the distribution of the $70m surplus about which we are speaking today. If the scheme were as good as 'has been said I suppose it would not have accumulated a surplus to that extent. The excess contributions by the contributors, the excess contribution of the Australian Government and the fact that the earning rate on those funds has been higher than anticipated must of necessity have contributed to this surplus. 
In order to resolve the question the present Government not only in its wisdom but also, to some extent, in its generosity, decided to contribute the sum of $70m to those who have been contributing to the Superannuation Fund for the period under review. If the scheme were a good one or, I suppose, one could say if it were properly organised, a surplus of this magnitude would not accrue. From my knowledge of superannuation funds they just do not accrue surpluses to that extent. Of course, one would not want superannuation funds to have a deficit. 
The purpose of superannuation funds is for people to contribute money, which is an enforced type of saving. Having contributed that money, a pool of money is then created which is available to approved borrowers in the community who can use the money to perform other important works. The money contributed to the Superannuation Fund does not lie in the Treasury coffers or in a bank vault. It is in fact put to work for the benefit of the community. That, to me, is the saving grace of all superannuation schemes. It is true that in the present financial climate - it 'is not an exclusively Australian climate but it is a financial climate that exists around the world, from Iceland to Spain, to Turkey, to Australia, to the United States of America and to all the so-called Western countries - all countries are experiencing the phenomenon of so-called inflation. As I have said, inflation is not endemic to Australia at all. Inflation is a world-wide problem. 
Honourable members who seem to take great delight in and make great play of this phenomenon of inflation in Australia, ought to look at the situation prevailing in the rest of the world. They will find that Australia's rate of inflation is not as bad as it is in the rest of the world, although that is no justification for the situation which exists in Australia. The financial future of Australia could not be gauged by the actuaries who set themselves up as the wise judges of what would happen in the future. It is the actuaries who on the basis of statistics claim that they can foresee how investments will go in the future. Life insurance and superannuation schemes in Australia exist because of the forecasts of actuaries. These people have obviously either misjudged the situation or could not see that Australia's financial position would become as buoyant as it has become. So, the surplus in the Superannuation Fund is now in excess of what the actuaries consider it ought to be. Our job today in this House is to determine how the surplus is to be distributed. There does not seem to be a great deal of opposition to the method the Government has employed to distribute that surplus but still Opposition members want to talk about the matter. Under the guise of speaking about the distribution of the surplus in the Superannuation Fund, they always manage to get in their snide little political shots and have a go at the present Government. 
Yes, they are prone to doing that. I think it stems from some envy and some jealously of the zealous way and the proper way in which the present Government is performing its tasks. But still the Australian community should not be confused and it will not be misled by carping criticism that is in no way constructive. 
The Government has determined that these funds will be distributed to those who have been contributors to the Superannuation Fund. I can see no fairer way of distributing the surplus funds than that. I would not like to have the task of determining whether the contributors had contributed too much money, whether the Australian Government, as an employer, had contributed too much money or whether the actuaries had in fact underestimated the earning rate of funds that they had at their disposal. The final point I would like to make in relation to this matter - again I turn to the point that I made originally - is that a surplus to this extent in the Superannuation Fund must lead any reasonable person to believe that were every working person in the Australian community able to take advantage of a superannuation scheme - as do in fact the Australian public servants - the size of the fund, the pool of money that would be created by all those contributions would, to use a colloquial expression, make the mind boggle. 
If every Australian contributed to a superannuation fund no more would we have to worry about where we would find funds to lend to the statutory bodies which need to do the very important capital works in our community. The money would be available. The funds would be earning a very good rate of interest in the present financial climate, certainly better than the 5 per cent that was forecast by the actuaries when the Superannuation Fund was introduced. I do not think there is any really serious opposition to this Bill. I think the members of the Opposition have been filibustering on this matter. They have been dragging the matter out for some reason known only to themselves. It is incredible that the Opposition is not opposing this Bill yet  speaker  after  speaker  from that side of the House still rise in their places and find something to say for 10, IS or 20 minutes. It is incredible. It escapes me why Opposition members want to do this. This tactic is certainly not one that is employed by the Gov- ernment. It is a tactic from which I would dissociate myself and one in which I would not be engaged. I commend the Bill to the House and say that I am astounded that there should be opposition to it. 
Has the Minister for Services and Property noticed that shortly after the Government announced its intention of introducing a Bill to force political parties to disclose the source of contributions to their party funds, the Liberal-Country Party moved to reject the Supply Bills? Has his attention been drawn to reports from the business community that the multi-national backers of the Liberal and Country Parties have urged them to go to an election immediately? Will the Minister immediately introduce the proposed legislation which will require the disclosure of the source of campaign funds? 
When the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  first came into this Parliament it was after I had been elected to it. When I learned that the Liberal Party candidate for Chisholm was a lecturer in political science, as I had never had the opportunity to attend a university I thought I might learn something from this honourable gentleman as he lectured to this House. After listening to him for the last 20 minutes I am not surprised that he is in this House of Parliament because if that is all he knows about political science there certainly is no place for him as a lecturer in a university. He tried to draw a parallel which it is impossible to draw by saying that the House of Representatives and the Senate should enjoy the same rights and privileges. He conveniently overlooked the fact that the 
House of Representatives is the popularly elected House and only the House of Representatives reflects the view of the people at any time. It relies, as we do at the moment, on a Senate not elected on the basis of population but purely on the basis of area. He should know that the States of Australia are not equal in area or population but they are equally represented in the Senate. Some of the senators who are now purporting to pass judgment on the affairs of the House of Representatives were elected when the late lamented Harold Holt was Prime Minister so long ago yet those ancient, decripit old gentlemen - except for the Labor Party Senators - now seek to . pass judgment on a contemporary House which reflects the views of the people, judgment having been passed by the people only 16 months ago. 
Obviously not the honourable member for Cowper, because he would not be able to write. The honourable member for Chisholm made the point that the Prime Minister should advise the governors of the States about the issue of writs for Senate elections. As a lecturer in political science and as a student of the Constitution, which he pretends to be, he should know that it is the prerogative of the  President  of the Senate to advise State governors when extra vacancies occur. That is one of the many errors he made. 
Debate interrupted. 
I seconded the proposition that my very good friend and colleague, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  should be  Chairman  of Committees in this House. I did that deliberately and with great pleasure. Having served in this Parliament since 1969 and thereby having seen both contenders for the position in operation in the chair both as the  deputy  of the  Speaker  and as the  Chairman  of Committees, I would find it very difficult, I suppose, to choose between them in respect of their competency. The honourable member for Lyne during the period of his occupancy of the chair, in my view, performed very fairly and within the Standing Orders, as did my very good friend, the honourable member for Corio, during his occupancy of the chair. The honourable mem ber for Corio performed impartially, firmly and within the Standing Orders. 
I am surprised that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  a man with long experience in this Parliament and a man who is to boot a lawyer, albeit a bush lawyer being a member of the Country Party, dared to assert during the course of such a debate as this when we are speaking about the attributes of 2 people that the  Chairman  of Committees in some way, whether he was acting as the  Chairman  of Committees or as the  deputy  for the  Speaker,  had some sort of influence on the procedures of this House. In his words, the honourable member for Corio in effect had never allowed proper Committee procedures to be followed. He said that the honourable member for Corio had not provided adequate time and facilities for Committee debate. I am very sorry to hear such a statement from such a learned gentleman. I thought he might have known that all the procedures of this House are regulated by the Standing Orders. I might remind him further that the Labor Government since coming to office in 1972 has not changed Standing Orders. In other words, the  Chairman  of Committees, whoever he may be, and the  Speaker  in this place, whoever he may be, operates within Standing Orders that were brought about by those who now find them very uncomfortable because they did not expect to sit on the Opposition side of the House, where they will probably sit for the next quarter of a century. 
The attributes of my colleague, the honourable member for Corio, are well known. He has had to contend with some very unruly elements in this House, especially in the southwest corner. Somebody just said that they are political bushrangers. They are not political bushrangers. To call them that would be unparliamentary. The unruly elements that have come to the fore in this House in an endeavour to frustrate the very democratic processes that they now profess to support have been very firmly put in their places by my good colleague and friend  Mr Scholes,  and I have no doubt that after his appointment to this high and important office today he will again deal with those elements in the firm, fair and just way in which he has dealt with them in the past. 
The House could do worse than support the candidacy of  Mr Scholes  because,  Mr Speaker,  it is important that there should be friendship in the relationship that exists between your  deputy  and yourself. I am not suggesting that there is no friendship between yourself and  Mr Lucock,  but for a variety of reasons I believe that a stronger friendship would exist between yourself and  Mr Scholes  than between yourself and  Mr Lucock.  Of course, the co-operation would be the same no matter from which party the  Chairman  of Committees was elected, but, this friendship, this co-operation, this liaison between the principal officer of the Parliament, the  Speaker,  and his  deputy,  the  Chairman  of Committees, is very important. By supporting the candidacy of  Mr Scholes  we can ensure that the friendly and co-operative relationship that has existed in the past will continue. We can ensure that everybody who wishes to speak and who has the right to speak under the Standing Orders will have that right guaranteed by electing  Mr Scholes  as  Chairman  of Committees. I commend his candidacy to the House and I will be most surprised if, when the ballot is taken, there are fewer than 125 votes for  Mr Scholes. 
Has the Minister for Housing and Construction been informed of land purchases in the areas of Melton and 
Sunbury in Victoria by the Housing Commission of Victoria as the agent of the Victorian Liberal Government? Can he tell the House whether the price, paid was reasonable or exorbitant? Will he investigate the purchase and, at a later time, perhaps advise this House whether Australian Government money has been wisely used by the Victorian Government? Can he also take action to ensure that Federal money is used by the State governments for the purpose for which it is allocated and not to make land speculators or others rich? 
I rise in this debate because of matters that have been mentioned by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  If building costs are rising at $12 a minute then the speeches just made by those 2 honourable gentlemen have just cost this country about $400. In addition, the speeches that they made during that time have achieved absolutely nothing. The whole tenor of this matter is related to legislation which has been introduced in the past. I think the honourable member for Wakefield knows full well where the anomaly lies in the Public Works Committee Act. There has never been in that Act a specific definition of what was the cost of a work. The Act does not specify at what stage of the work the cost shall be determined. It just mentions a cost of S2m. My understanding is that this amount has stood in the Act since 1969. It is now the Government's intention to amend the Act so that the cost of the works will be the full cost at the point of estimation and which can be substantiated in the future without any escalation of costs in the com,munity 
Here we are talking about 3 schools in the Northern Territory which when originally planned would have cost less than $2m, which is the amount prescribed in the Act. On the criteria that will be introduced a resolution of this House would not be needed because the cost of the 3 schools at the time of final estimate was less than S2m. It is because the tenders are higher and because of the anomaly which still exists in the Public Works Committee Act that the matter now comes before this House for resolution. I seem to remember the honourable member for Boothby trying to point out in this House that there was no justification for the matter to come forward in this way. He quoted from the Act and said something about the urgency of the work. I might be misquoting the honourable gentleman but I thought he indicated that the work on these 3 schools was not what one might describe as urgent. I do not know whether the honourable member for the Northern Terirtory  (Mr Calder)  will speak in this debate. The 3 schools concerned are in his area, and if his area is anything like mine I am quite sure that he regards construction of the schools as being urgent, very necessary and important. 
When I learnt that honorable members opposite were going to rise on this matter I started to think. I thought that surely some reason prevails in this House and that honourable members know that through no fault of the Government there was an election on 18 May and that the last Parliament was dissolved on 11 April. I though that these works are within the framework of everybody's thinking; it is just that this thinking had not yet been put into words. The alterations to the Act had been spoken about informally by members of the Public Works Committee and by and large it was agreed that the costs of works ought to be as proposed in the legislation to come before the House. Having met that criteria I thought: 'There is something fishy going on here with these fellows wanting to get up and talk on this Bill'. Of course, as soon as the honourable member for Boothby opened his mouth he not only put his foot in it, but let the cat out of the bag too. If you like mixed metaphores, that is exactly what he did. All he wanted to do was to castigate the Government for something which is happening in private enterprise. He wanted to talk about escalating building costs. But the Government is not building these projects; it is not building them with day labour. They are being built by contractors. The whole building industry is operated within the private enterprise system, which the honourable member for Boothby supports. The honourable member came into this House and tried to flay the Government for the faults of the private enterprise system which he thinks works but which I know for sure will not work anywhere in the world. I would like anyone to point out just where the private enterprise system is working at the moment. No one can do this. 
To his great credit the honourable member for Wakefield asked a question about building costs at the Tennant Creek Hospital hearing, at which I was present. I am sure that the answers that were given to the honourable member were given in good faith by the officer of the Department of Works and Housing. As I recall the situation, when the honourable member asked the question the officer concerned immediately plucked a pocket size calculator from his pocket and went into a frantic sort of calculation to give the honourable member the answer for which he had asked. I have no reason to doubt the sincerity of the officer or the authenticity of the figures. But I would just like to point out that they were provided on the spot by a very quick calculation. 
They may or may not be correct. I think the mere tabling of the evidence is no substantiation of the authenticity of these figures. Let me refer again to the other matter. I make this point only because the honourable member for Boothby raised the matter. I do not think this should be left unsaid. I think it should be heard by people across the country. It was suggested that in some way or another this Government was directly responsible for the escalation in building costs. In the Northern Territory, as must be obvious to honourable members and to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  there are very peculiar sets of circumstances. As the Tennant Creek hospital was mentioned, I shall refer to it briefly. We were told that tenders were to be set for the erection of large numbers of private dwellings in Tennant Creek. Not a contractor will come there unless the minimum amount of work which is offered is in execss of Si. 5m. Of course, under those sorts of circumstances there will be escalation in cost. The builder who refused to come unless he received that much work was a private enterprise builder. He was not owned by the Government. He was not part of the Government. He was a private enterprise builder. This is the point I make. 
It is all very well to stand up in this House and to slate this Government for this, that and the other. But 2 things emerge, and emerge very clearly. This Government and the Government before this one inherited a very bad economic situation. It was a deteriorating economic situation. I am not like a former Prime Minister of this country. I do not get down and say prayers every evening. But, if I did, I would be offering prayers and saying: 'Thank God there was a change of government in 1972 and those who were in power up until that time were not allowed to continue with the people in the community who were out to get rich quickly by escalating their prices'. 1 do not know about their costs escalating, but they are certainly escalating their prices. And that is what we are talking about. When we talk about the cost of a building to the Australian Government we are talking about the price somebody is charging us. Therefore, we are talking about somebody escalating his prices. I am not altogether sure that that is the same as somebody escalating his costs. We do not always have the benefit of that sort of information. We inherited a bad situation. The position would have been much worse if it had been left in the hands of those who were in government before us. 
I am sorry to have to speak in theis vein, but I was provoked into it by earlier speakers. Normally I take a much more placid view of things than the view which I have taken tonight. But my ire has been aroused by those who have used a perfectly innocent motion in this House. Honourable members have said that they support the motion. I think the honourable member for Boothby went so far as to say that he half supported it - whatever that means. So there is really no opposition to the motion. But it has been used as a vehicle to flog again this old horse of escalation in building costs. As I have said, the wrong terminology was used. Honourable members opposite should have talked about an escalation in the price to the Australian Government. That would have been far nearer the mark. The difference betwen cost and price lies in somebody's pocket. 
Having risen on the spur of the moment because I was goaded into speaking, I do not have any accurate information from which to quote. But 1 am sure the information is available. Unless the House wanted to defer the construction of these 3 very vital schools in the Northern Territory - I do not think that the honourable member for the Northern Territory would sit idly by and let that happen - there was no need for debate on this matter because is was purely a machinery motion. It had been used as a vehicle by those who want to push another point of view. I commend the motion to the House. I am sure that it will be carried without dissent. 
I suppose this debate has ranged much more widely, following the speech of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  than was intended when the measure was first brought before the House. The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill seeks only to extend for a further period the provisions in the Act that have existed since 1967 in order to bring about - it is the very opposite from what the honourable member for Wannon was saying, as I understood him - a lasting and permanent arrangement on the waterfront for the employment of waterside labour. The honourable member for Wannon foreshadowed amendments -which he intends to move during the Committee stage of consideration of this measure. As I understand those amendments, all that they seek to do is to limit the period of time over which this measure will be operative. In other words, they seek to try to buffalo the Government into a position in which obviously it does not want to be at the moment. 
It is quite clear - and I think the honourable member for Wannon made it quite clear - that the waterfront, because of the type of work carried on there, is an area that has always been subject to disagreement and conflict. It would be very difficult to say who was to blame for that disagreement and conflict, although if one listened to honourable members opposite one would always believe that it was the waterside worker himself who was to blame. In concluding his speech the honourable member for Wannon made mention of overseas influence on the waterfront. He did not elaborate on that comment. I suppose the reason he did not elaborate was that he could not. It is an expression that has no signficance at all. It is a pity that the honourable member did not go a little further and, instead of making some sort of blithe accusation such as that and skating off from it, try to explain to us what he meant by the term 'overseas influence', because I am sure that his explanation of that term would itself have been the subject of a very lively debate. 
The waterfront, by its very nature, has always been regarded as one of those areas to which people come to work when work was available. When work was not available and employees were no longer required they were no longer employees. Their position might have been all right in the. days before mechanisation but their position has worsened with the onset of mechanisation on the waterfront. With the mechanisation by the ship owners and the many different ways of transporting cargo, people who belonged to unions other than the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia, were performing tasks which were very similar in nature to those tasks once performed by waterside workers but which, because of the introduction of technology and mechanisation on the waterfront, are now in fact vastly- different tasks. So the traditional waterside worker was put in a position of some isolation because in many instances the task that he performed became less relevant than it was at an earlier time. 
So the waterside workers who operate on the waterfront around Australia today are not like their counterparts of previous years who came forward when the ship came into port, unloaded the ship, went home and waited for another ship to arrive. Nowadays, waterside workers work on the waterfront constantly in the same way as people working in manufacturing industries around the country, and as such they spend a lifetime on the waterfront. It is perhaps the only industry in which people are engaged for their whole lifetime. So it seems incongruous that these people should still now be regarded as temporary, part-time or casual employees. Yet, without the provisions of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act to protect them, that is exactly the position they would be in. So their right to be regarded as permanent employees is being protected in the interim by this Bill. 
The bringing about of a permanent scheme of employment for waterside workers is not a matter in relation to which the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  or his advisers, or anybody else, say to those who work on the waterfront: 'These are the conditions under which you will work'. That, I am sure, is the attitude of honourable members opposite. They would like to say that this Government should go to the waterside workers and say: 'These are the conditions under which you will work'. It has always been my understanding of industrial relations that this sort of situation would be tantamount to trying to put out a fire with a can of petrol. The best way to bring about peace and harmony amongst those who are employed on wages or salaries is to allow those people to have a very broad and a very deep say in the conditions under which they will work. 
Clearly there must be some agreement between the Government, whose job it is to administer these regulations and these laws, and those who will work under them, because if the Government becomes autocratic or if the Opposition, persisting with its amendment, should push the Government into doing something which does not meet with the agreement of the Waterside Workers Federation, then of course there will be immediate conflict. I think that is the tactic of the Opposition, but it is the sort of situation which it seeks. It pushes people into positions of conflict so that it can come into this House and bring on another matter of public importance, talk about things that have no relevance to the matter of public importance, and highlight all the time the strikes and stoppages that are taking place around the country. These things seem to obsess the Opposition more than anything else. 
The Government has adopted an entirely different approach from that. It is true that as yet agreement has not been reached in relation to permanent provisions. So, by means of this Bill, we are simply asking the Parliament to extend the temporary provisions, which are working very well at the moment, for a further period until agreement can be reached. If that course is followed no question of conflict will arise. Those people who will have to work under the permanent provisions will be party to them, and it is very difficult to argue against something to which you have been party. But it is also very essential that such an agreement be satisfactory to both parties, and in this case the 2 parties comprise the Government, on the one hand, and those who are engaged on the waterfront, on the other. 
Many changes are taking place in the industrial scene, as in all other scenes. I know that my colleague, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, is very anxious that many of the difficulties that have arisen in the past between various unions, because of the multiplicity of them, should be resolved. This was not made any easier by the previous Government. In fact, it was made nearly impossible. When the Minister for Labor and Immigration brings forward further proposals later this year many of the difficulties that have arisen in the past and could arise in the future will be resolved, simply because we will no longer have the ludicrous situation of one union arguing against another union in relation to work to be done, which is commonly known as a demarcation dispute. To obviate all of these difficulties that could arise the Government has taken a decision - it is a decision which I support entirely and commend to the House - to extend the provisions that exist in the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act for a further 2 years only. Any difficulties that might exist at the moment will be resolved in that 2-year period and the whole situation will be resolved not only to the satisfaction of the Government but also, more importantly, to the satisfaction of those who are actively engaged in this industry. 
It is a short Bill. If I were to digress as far from it as did the honourable member for Wannon I suppose I too could take 20 minutes of the time of the House, but having made the pertinent points I will leave it to the good judgment of this House to make its decision as to whether the Government is in fact correct in putting this very short and machinery measure before the House for ratification. 
I commend the measure that is before the House because, as I mentioned in a debate yesterday on a similar matter, the Public Works Committee Act has been ambiguous, so far as I can determine right from its inception, insofar as it gives no indication, although it mentions the cost of a work, of what that cost will be or at what point it should be determined. This matter has been discussed by the Public Works Committee, as the honourable member for Wakefield (Mi Kelly) has mentioned. The Public Works Committee has been concerned about this aspect because by Act of Parliament the Public Works Committee is charged with the responsibility of examining works referred to it by the Parliament. The debate that took place yesterday in this chamber concerning 3 schools in the Northern Territory need not have taken place if this amendment had already been made to the Public Works Committee Act prior to yesterday, because the amendment simply provides for a cut-off point. It simply defines the point at which the cost of a work can be determined. 
It must be clear to everybody, I think, that there are many cut-off points from the inception of a project until its completion, which points can be regarded as the cost of the project. Those points can be legitimately determined all the way through a project. But only when all the design work has been done can one in essence say that on paper there is a complete plan for a project which has been reliably costed by the Department of Housing and Construction. In other words, an estimate has been prepared against which tender prices can be compared. It is only at that time that the cost of a project can in real terms be determined. The Bill simply does that. The Bill provides that after all the design work has been completed, the estimated cost at that stage shall be the cost of the project. Any event which occurs in the community after that design estimate has been prepared, such as the escalation of costs, shall be disregarded. I hark back to the 3 schools in the Northern Territory. The reason that matter needed to be brought to this House was that by the time the projects had been designed, costs in the community generally had risen. So when the tender prices were submitted the tenders exceeded the original estimated price. The tenders certainly would not have exceeded the current estimated price of the project, but they exceeded the original estimated price. 
Let me elaborate on that point. It must be borne in mind that from the time a department of the Australian Government decides that it wishes work to be done until the time that work is actually executed can be a period of up to 7 years, depending on the size and complexity of the project. That in itself makes it obvious that in order to comply with the intention of the Public Works Committee Act there should be a point at which it is said: 'This is the cost of the project'. That is all the amendment seeks to do. The Public Works Committee agreed that this was the point at which the cost of a project ought to be determined for the purpose of allowing the Government to decide whether this was  a  matter which should be brought before the Parliament. To go about this in any other way would allow the ambiguity that exists in the Act to remain. Until this amendment is agreed to the Australian Government, Australian Government departments and certainly the Department of Housing and Construction will remain in a state of uncertainty. 1 do not know whether there is any opposition to this legislation. I have not heard any. What is proposed is reasonable and sensible, and the only practical thing to do. The Public Works Committee deals with practical matters. I feel safe in saying on behalf of that Committee that it will be most grateful if this amendment is passed so that it will have a determinate point in the Act and will know precisely the cost of a project and how to define it. That is all that the amendment seeks to do. It simply adds a definition to the provisions already existing in the Act. I commend it to the House. 
That which the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has just said was raised prior to the last election. I am not suggesting - nor does the motion suggest - that the building to which the motion refers ought to be constructed. Unlike the honourable member for Curtin, I understand the function of committees of this Parliament. It seems that whenever there is any doubt matters are referred to such committees for resolution. It is true that in the case of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works there is an Act which guides its operations and a requirement that certain works have to be referred to it for examination. The fact that a motion of this nature is moved in this place by the Government does not in any way pre-suppose that the motion is going to be a fait accompli. In fact I can recall quite a number of occasions on which proposals submitted to committees of this Parliament by the Government - as we are now talking about the Public Works Committee I should confine my remarks to it - have been returned to the Government in a different form from that in which they were submitted. 
It seemed to me that the honourable member for Curtin was expressing a lack of confidence in the Public Works Committee. If he is to be taken seriously he could very well be saying that the Public Works Committee is a rubber stamp. It listens to the evidence presented by people, that evidence is given on oath, recorded and open to debate at any time. He is saying that all of those things will be done but then the project under consideration will proceed. I might remind the honourable member that one of the functions of the Public Works Committee is to protect the public interest. It stands as a watchdog between the actions of the Government or the Parliament and the rights of the people. As  Chairman  of that Committee it is my intention to maintain that tradition. The Public Works Committee is bipartisan and bicameral in its constitution. However, the members of that Committee, when the Committee is meeting, act as a group of Australian citizens looking after the interests of other Australian citizens. If the Committee were to deviate from that course I would be the first to stand in this House and express disappointment. 
I cannot recall any instance since I have been a member of that Committee when the Committee has not taken note of objections raised by citizens against a project on very sound grounds. The honourable member may not be in a position to know that the Committee has deferred the hearing of evidence in relation to certain works to enable citizens to prepare their briefs in full so that their voices will be heard properly and not stifled by any bureaucratic action. 1 support the motion put forward by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  Its purpose is simply to refer the matter to the Public Works Committee. After thai is done other actions will be taken. The Committee determines the date on which the hearing will be held. When the date is set it is advertised widely and ample notice is given to those who wish to state their objections. If the honourable member for. Curtin thinks that the Public Works Committee will not follow the correct course, rather than stand up and carp about this matter which is very important to the people of Perth, why does he not do the honourable thing and move for the disbandment of the Committee in which he has no confidence and replacement of it with another. I think the matter should rest there. The motion should be agreed to and the confidence of this House should rest in the Public Works Committee. 

 Mr GARLAND (Curtin) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
As was indicated during the second reading debate on this matter, I wish to move the amendment which has been circulated in my name. I move: 
In proposed section 158l (8), after 'organisation' (fifth occurring) insert 'for an exemption under this sub-section, unless he considers that there are special circumstances by reason of which the exemption should be refused'. 
If the amendment is agreed to section 158l (8) will then read:   the Industrial Registrar shall, upon application by the first-mentioned organisation for an exemption under this sub-section, unless he considers that there are special circumstances by reason of which the exemption should be refused, exempt that organisation from the requirement that a ballot of its members be held in respect of the amalgamation and the application of this Part is modified accordingly. 
It is in no way a substantial amendment. Its purpose is simply to make section 158L read exactly the same as the Act. It gives discretion to the Industrial Registrar, which the Bill at first sight does not appear to do. As the matter was raised by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I understand that he will express no opposition to the amendment to section 158L(8) which I have proposed. It simply explains the situation a little more clearly than the Bill does. 
I move: 
In proposed section 158l (8), after 'organisation' (fifth occurring) insert 'for an exemption under this sub-section, unless he considers that there are special circumstances by reason of which the exemption should be refused'. 
As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said, this is a machinery matter. It has been thoroughly discussed and does not need any further discussion. I will leave the matter there. 
I was rather surprised at the final remarks of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he spoke about the 
Opposition in the Senate opposing this measure. I have advice - I believe it to be good advice- 
Yes, free. I have advice that a certain gentleman,  Mr George  Polites, is not terribly happy about the Opposition opposing this legislation. 
1 imagine there would be people like  Mr Polites  who have a vested interest in maintaining some industrial peace in this country, unlike those who sit opposite us in this place, who seem to have a vested interest in ensuring that there is industrial unrest. 
 They speak for those who have a vested interest in unrest. The honourable member for Wannon kept telling us about star nights at meetings of the Australian Metal Workers Union. I suppose he was there; he must have been because he seemed to know a good deal about them. But his .information was wrong. I would be delighted if the honourable gentleman would show us his union ticket and let us know which trade union he belongs to or has belonged to and with which one he is currently financial. 
As the honourable member for Phillip reminds me, he is confused. At least in trade unions ballots are held and the opinions of members sought. When there is an open vote members hands go up, the hands are counted and it is announced to the meeting how many voted one way and how many voted the other way. My advice about certain meetings held in this place in a room that we occupied for 23 years is that when hands go up they are certainly counted but the tellers whisper the result to the  chairman  who announces whether the question is carried or not. Nobody ever bothers to find out how many voted one way or the other. What an incredible operation. Honourable members opposite come into this place after such a great display of democracy by their Party and start talking to us about democracy in the trade unions.  (Quorum formed.) 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker(Quorum formed). We have just had the usual inane action by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  It is interesting to note that even after he drew your attention to the state of the House 2 Liberals and 3 Country Party members walked into the House, which makes a complement of 3 Country Party members and 5 Liberals in the chamber at this moment. We are discussing the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which provides for an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to permit more efficient and easier amalgamation of trade unions. 
Before the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  treated us to a great dissertation on the thing that he holds dearest to his heart, that is, democracy. He started to tell us about all the undemocratic things that this Bill tries to do, versus the very democratic things in the Act which was brought in the year before last by the Government of which he was a member. He went on and made a pretty broad statement. He said, when speaking of the need for ballots to be conducted by the Industrial Registrar, that some unions do not have ballots to elect their officials. He even suggested - if he did not say so, and I believe he said it - that some unions elect their officials without holding a ballot. He was asked by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  and me, across the table - quite out of order, of course - to name those unions. He did not do so. The reason is obvious. He does not know of them because there are none. He seems to have some sort of penchant about talking on the question of secret postal ballots. More than once he mentioned the need for secret postal ballots. 
I shall tell honourable members about Coogee and about a recent trade union election in New South Wales in which the Miscellaneous Workers Union was involved. A matter occurred there which gave rise to a court hearing and the court found in favour of the union. It is a pretty serious business. I shall tell the honourable member for Wannon about that situation. When the ballot papers were sent out by post people arrived at the door of union members when the ballot papers were delivered by postmen and told the unionist: 'There has been some sort of a mix-up in this. In fact there is not a postal ballot on at all. The whole thing has been cancelled and I have been asked to collect your ballot paper and take it back'. One of the alert members of the union thought he would check on that and he talked with the Industrial Registrar and found out that the story he had been told was not true. 
There are elements in this community - their representatives sit on the other side of this chamber - who are out to destroy the trade union movement. I worry about that. I have never heard honourable members opposite stand up in this House and say that there ought to be any hard and fast rules for the amalgamation of commercial enterprises, banks or any other organisation. Nobody is concerned about any sorts of amalgamations except those of trade unions. The Opposition always says that the amalgamation of these other concerns are certainly in the interests of the community as a whole and therefore should not be interfered with. But if one starts talking to members of the Opposition about an amalgamation of 2 trade unions one sees how they go off. 
The proposal that was brought in by the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  when he was the Minister for Labour and National Service was that in a union amalgamation ballot half of the ballot papers had to be returned and, of those returned, half plus one had to be in favour of the amalgamation if the proposal was to be carried. At the time the measure was introduced it was put to us that that was a fair requirement for the amalgamation. However, when one looks at it critically, and it was explained then, in this situation which has applied one sees that there is no way in which one can compel people to vote. There is not even a way to compel people to return their voting papers. In fact, even though we speak about compulsory voting in Australia, there is no such thing; there is a requirement on people to attend the polling booth. Nobody can make somebody vote. Nobody can make anybody put his mark on the paper. The situation is similar to that in the saying: You can lead a horse to water but you cannot make it drink. 
If half of the ballot papers are required to be returned, and there is no compulsion in the. matter, the question can be easily defeated by people not voting. That is exactly what happens. History tells us that a 30 per cent return in a union ballot is a very good result. In those circumstances the conditions applied by the Liberal Party to the Act make it virtually impossible for an amalgamation to take place. Everybody would agree that that is an absolutely chaotic and ridiculous state of affairs. 
The honourable member for Wannon endeavoured to justify that position by saying that 33 of the 303 unions in Australia have comparatively large memberships and represent about 75 per cent of total union membership. (Quorum formed.) I have been used to this sort of treatment all my life. It does not bother me one bit. 
But, of course, it is still not fair. How can we expect any sort of sincerity from honourable members opposite? There were 5 honourable members from the Liberal Party in the House when that quorum was called and there are still only five. So let us see who is interested in what is going on in this place. Is the honourable member who makes a fool of himself interested? Are the others who are in this place interested? The only degree of sincerity the honourable member for Wannon displayed was in the only real contribution he made to the debate, when he pointed out to the House - I have discussed the matter with the Minister for Labor and Immigration - that somebody somewhere made a typographical error. Proposed new section 158l (8) which is found at page 6, line 27 of the Bill states:  the Industrial 'Registrar shall, upon application by the first-mentioned organisation, exempt that organisation from the requirement that a ballot of its members be held in respect of the amalgamation and the application of this Fart is modified accordingly. 
The missing words that should be inserted after the word 'shall' are:  unless there are special circumstances.  It is not competent to move an amendment during the second reading debate. I give notice that during the Committee stage of this Bill I shall make sure that the clerk has the necessary information and I shall move that as an amendment. It is important that that be said before somebody else does something silly and time runs out. I now get back to the matter of ballots. The honourable member for Wannon is not a member of a union and he has never been to a union meeting. He thought that a ballot meant putting pieces of paper in an upturned hat at a meeting on a particular night. 
Once again I draw his attention to proposed new section 158l (3) which makes it a requirement that a ballot be held. The honourable member is even now counting to see how many honourable members are in the House. Well, once he gets past ten he will have to take his shoes off. 
I do not know whether I have to spend time explaining to the honourable member for Wannon what a ballot is. As a member of the Liberal Party I do not think he would know. In that Party they never get around to having ballots. But for the information of the honourable member I point out that a ballot occurs when papers are delivered or given to people on which they are to make a mark and then return the papers. Essentially it is a secret ballot although that word is not used. There is a requirement in the Bill for that to be done. A requirement exists in the Act for that to be done. Yet the honourable member made great play of the fact that somebody was ignoring the rights of individual members. He seemed to suggest that as it was only a requirement to have a ballot, that in some way ignored the rights of rank and file members of unions. 
In relation to the question of amalgamation the honourable member speaks from ignorance. He must know, because he must be connected with organisations, that an organisation with a very small membership of necessity has a very small income. If there is a small income then the resources which can be used  to look  after the members must, of necessity, be small also. So it seems to me that a great disservice is done to members of small unions if it is difficult for them to amalgamate. They are left in this limbo, this half world. Certainly they have their own domain but they are without any industrial back-up in terms of research staff. The industrial scene, like every other scene, is becoming more and more complicated, complex and sophisticated as time goes on and as pressures increase. 
We find that large unions are able to do the most for their members. We find that the small unions have great difficulty in competing in any area in which unions traditionally engage. The Bill which is presently before the House takes away the onerous part of the old Act which required half of the ballot papers to be returned. We know that that is impossible. This makes amalgamation of industrial organisations easier. Surely that is in the interests of the members of those organisations. To make it even easier the Bill provides that for a ballot to toe held a petition or request is required which need be signed by only 250 members of the organisation. The Act speaks about the application being signed by 1,000 members. Once again we are looking after the interests of the rank and file unionist. We are making sure that he can reach the leadership of the union and have his voice heard. We are making sure that if he believes that it is in his interests that there be an amalgamation with another union this will not be almost an impossibility. 
If we go through the procedures which are provided in the Bill we find that the committee of management of each organisation is required to pass a resolution proposing amalgamation and adopting a scheme of amalgamation. That scheme, supported by the resolution of the committees of management, is to be filed with the Industrial Registrar. Each amalgamation is to be approved by a majority of members who vote in a plebiscite of each of the unions proposing to amalgamate. Of course, that excludes those unions which are large, if the Registrar agrees. In accordance with the regulations the Registrar determines the application following a hearing, if necessary, of any objections. So a scheme is evolved under which protection exists all the way down the line. The Bill goes on to provide that if the Registrar determines that the proposed amalgamation is to proceed he will carry out the necessary formal steps of registration and the alteration to rules and deregistration without delay. 
In addition to those provisions under which the procedures for amalgamation would be generally similar to those already applying to registration, it is believed that it is desirable to adopt further provisions to. enable the membership of an organisation to seek an officially conducted ballot. The critical words are: 'An officially conducted ballot'. If the honourable member for Wannon or anybody else thinks that the Registrar of the court is not in a position to carry out a ballot in the intended manner, then he should not stand up and criticise the Bill because the Bill covers exactly that situation. The weaknesses which the honourable member spoke about but never quite identified are not clear, are not apparent and, in fact, they do not exist. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-73, I present the report of the Public Works Committee relating to the following proposed work: 
Tennant Creek  Hospital, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Housing and Construction by saying that the Minister will re  member that some weeks ago during this session I asked him a question about land deals by the Victorian Housing Commission at Sunbury and Melton. In his reply he said he would supply information for the House. I now ask whether any information is available. If so, what is it? 
-Mr Acting  Chairman,  were I able to understand what the previous  speaker  said I would probably take some time to reply. It was such a pedestrian load of gobbledegook that I do not think it would be possible for anybody to reply to that hotchpotch mixture of figures and understatement of facts. I think it is about time that the purpose of this Bill was restated. Previous speakers have already said that the Bill has been debated over a lengthy period in this place and in another place. It is in fact a Bill to establish in Australia a Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
The many hours of debate that have taken place in the House of Representatives and in the Senate have apparently been wasted because no member of the Opposition parties has yet been persuaded by the unanswerable logic of the Labor Party's case. The best defence that these recipients of part of the rewards reaped by these overseas exploiters can put forward is that the Bill is wicked socialism and enshrines socialist principles. My view is that if the Opposition is to speak about socialism and wicked socialist principles with regard to this Bill it ought to be charged with gross misrepresentation. If any of the measures proposed in this Bill are socialist either in their inception or in practice I am afraid I have wasted , a lot of my time trying to learn what socialism really is. The Bill seeks to establish an Authority which will set about exploring for minerals and petroleum in exactly the same way as those people who support the concept of private enterprise are doing now in the sea around Australia and on the land. All that this Bill seeks to do is to add another explorer, if we like, and an entrepreneur to the field except that this proposed Authority will be owned by the people of Australia. 
In trying to gain some enlightenment on this very complex subject I turned to a debate which took place in this chamber on 1 1 July 1974. In that debate  Mr Anthony,  who is the Leader of the Australian Country Party and the right honourable member for Richmond, said among a number of things that the Bill gives unfettered enormous power to an Authority, a Minister and a Government over which the Parliament has little scrutiny. I do not know where that right honourable gentleman has been spending his time. It seems to me that if a Minister in this Parliament or the Government is not under scrutiny, I wonder what the heck the Opposition is doing in this place, why its supporters ask all the questions that they do ask and why they engage in debate. Nobody could be under closer scrutiny than the very fine, honourable, respected and revered Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the very fine, honest, respected and revered Government that we have governing this country at the present time. 
-It is true. I wish that somebody could show me that the same sort of scrutiny exists for Esso-BHP or for any of the mining companies in the electorate of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  If they can show me that there is any sort of scrutiny over the activities of those people- the same sort of scrutiny as the Minister and the Government receive- I would be very pleased to hear it. So far I have not heard anybody say that. A lot has been said about the high risk capital involved in this industry. I ask: Where does the high risk capital come from? I suppose it comes from 3 sources: It probably comes from reserves, it probably comes from an issue of shares and it probably comes from profits. Let us look at profits. Reserves are undistributed profits. I suppose that those who buy shares are the gamblers in the community, and they have been caught and had their fingers burnt. 
But when we are talking about these things we are not talking about the capital of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, of Esso or of the mining companies. Are we not talking about the price the consumer pays for the end product? Does the consumer not pick up the tab? Is this not the case everywhere? The consumer wears 2 hats. He is the user of the product and also the payer of taxes. So we are right back to the good old backbone of this country- the working class taxpayer. The Opposition is talking about his capital being at risk if the Government becomes involved in the matter. His capital is the tax that he pays anyhow. Carried to its nth degree, as is the intention of the Government, the consumer- namely, the taxpayer- will pay a lower price for the product that he receives in the long run. So the Opposition is talking about taking it from him with one hand and giving it back to him with the other. The argument about risk capital being involved is a completely and utterly facetious argument. It is facetious to say that the Australian Government is acting irresponsibly in using its great resources to do a job. 
Do not forget that there are many authorities existing that could move into this area straight away. Anybody who believes that Australia is without experienced and skilled people is deluding himself. It is essential that this legislation be passed. I have a rather sneaking suspicion that when the vote is taken later this evening it will be carried and the legislation will become law. The Bill is written in language which is very easy to understand. Members of the Opposition apparently have found it very confusing, especially members of the Australian Country Party. That is not surprising. They find everything confusing. One of the reasons - 
-Hullo. Who woke up the honourable senator from Tasmania? 
-That is not surprising; you sleep rather lightly. One of the reasons given in clause 9 of the Bill for establishing the authority would, I think, endear itself to those jingoistic drum-bashers who sit opposite us. Amongst other things, it says:  ... for the purpose of ensuring the availability when a state of war, or danger of war, exists, of adequate reserves and supplies of petroleum, petroleum products, petrochemicals, minerals and refined substances capable of being used for the purpose of the defence of Australia. 
If we look at that clause alone what do we find? Those who sit opposite are always telling us that we are always at risk. We find that at present these very critical things in a critical period are in the hands of the private enterprise system and the Government has no control over them at all. Honourable gentlemen opposite stand in this place and say that they oppose this Bill purely and simply on the ground that it is not m line with their singular and very archaic free enterprise mentality- a system that has never worked anywhere in the world and that is proving daily around the world how bad it is. It is falling to pieces in every country in the world, and Australia is no exception. 
How can you make a bad thing good? Those who sit opposite are constantly trying to do that. They would support a private enterprise system to the complete exclusion of any sort of participation by the Australian Government. Did they not do this with Trans-Australia Airlines? Did they not hamstring TAA? Was it not they who said that TAA could not fly aircraft intrastate although its competitor- I use that word loosely when speaking of these people- could fly aircraft anywhere at any time? Did they not place a restriction on the use of machinery owned by TAA without any such restriction applying to its free enterprise competitor? So when they talk of this measure being some sort of threat to the free enterprise system we must conclude that they are speaking with their tongue in their cheek, because it cannot possibly be said that there is any risk to the free enterprise system. I always thought that a free enterprise system relied greatly for its existence on competition. I did not think that free enterprise was afraid of a competitor, but it seems that amongst those on the other side of this place there is a fear. They are afraid of the Australian Government going into opposition with free enterprise in a fair, businesslike and competitive way with no advantage to the Australian Government enterprise. In closing off, I am reminded of a poem by Henry Lawson, 'A Word to Texas Jack'. The final stanza of that poem, with a few alterations, reads: 
But when they are gone, as we are not, we find that when they go, 
They have left behind no  lamin'-  but have carted off our dough. 
-Mr Acting  Chairman,  were I able to understand what the previous  speaker  said I would probably take some time to reply. It was such a pedestrian load of gobbledegook that I do not think it would be possible for anybody to reply to that hotchpotch mixture of figures and understatement of facts. I think it is about time that the purpose of this Bill was restated. Previous speakers have already said that the Bill has been debated over a lengthy period in this place and in another place. It is in fact a Bill to establish in Australia a Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
The many hours of debate that have taken place in the House of Representatives and in the Senate have apparently been wasted because no member of the Opposition parties has yet been persuaded by the unanswerable logic of the Labor Party's case. The best defence that these recipients of part of the rewards reaped by these overseas exploiters can put forward is that the Bill is wicked socialism and enshrines socialist principles. My view is that if the Opposition is to speak about socialism and wicked socialist principles with regard to this Bill it ought to be charged with gross misrepresentation. If any of the measures proposed in this Bill are socialist either in their inception or in practice I am afraid I have wasted a lot of my time trying to learn what socialism really is. The Bill seeks to establish an Authority which will set about exploring for minerals and petroleum in exactly the same way as those people who support the concept of private enterprise are doing now in the sea around Australia and on the land. All that this Bill seeks to do is to add another explorer, if we like, and an entrepreneur to the field except that this proposed Authority will be owned by the people of Australia. 
In trying to gain some enlightenment on this very complex subject I turned to a debate which took place in this chamber on 1 1 July 1974. In that debate  Mr Anthony,  who is the Leader of the Australian Country Party and the right honourable member for Richmond, said among a number of things that the Bill gives unfettered enormous power to an Authority, a Minister and a Government over which the Parliament has little scrutiny. I do not know where that right honourable gentleman has been spending his time. It seems to me that if a Minister in this Parliament or the Government is not under scrutiny, I wonder what the heck the Opposition is doing in this place, why its supporters ask all the questions that they do ask and why they engage in debate. Nobody could be under closer scrutiny than the very fine, honourable, respected and revered Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the very fine, honest, respected and revered Government that we have governing this country at the present time. 
-It is true. I wish that somebody could show me that the same sort of scrutiny exists for Esso-BHP or for any of the mining companies in the electorate of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  If they can show me that there is any sort of scrutiny over the activities of those people- the same sort of scrutiny as the Minister and the Government receive- I would be very pleased to hear it. So far I have not heard anybody say that. A lot has been said about the high risk capital involved in this industry. I ask: Where does the high risk capital come from? I suppose it comes from 3 sources: It probably comes from reserves, it probably comes from an issue of shares and it probably comes from profits. Let us look at profits. Reserves are undistributed profits. I suppose that those who buy shares are the gamblers in the community, and they have been caught and had their fingers burnt. 
But when we are talking about these things we are not talking about the capital of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, of Esso or of the mining companies. Are we not talking about the price the consumer pays for the end product? Does the consumer not pick up the tab? Is this not the case everywhere? The consumer wears 2 hats. He is the user of the product and also the payer of taxes. So we are right back to the good old backbone of this country- the working class taxpayer. The Opposition is talking about his capital being at risk if the Government becomes involved in the matter. His capital is the tax that he pays anyhow. Carried to its nth degree, as is the intention of the Government, the consumer- namely, the taxpayer- will pay a lower price for the product that he receives in the long run. So the Opposition is talking about taking it from him with one hand and giving it back to him with the other. The argument about risk capital being involved is a completely and utterly facetious argument. It is facetious to say that the Australian Government is acting irresponsibly in using its great resources to do a job. 
Do not forget that there are many authorities existing that could move into this area straight away. Anybody who believes that Australia is without experienced and skilled people is deluding himself. It is essential that this legislation be passed. I have a rather sneaking suspicion that when the vote is taken later this evening it will be carried and the legislation will become law. The Bill is written in language which is very easy to understand. Members of the Opposition apparently have found it very confusing, especially members of the Australian Country Party. That is not surprising. They find everything confusing. One of the reasons - 
-Hullo. Who woke up the honourable senator from Tasmania? 
-That is not surprising; you sleep rather lightly. One of the reasons given in clause 9 of the Bill for establishing the authority would, I think, endear itself to those jingoistic drum-bashers who sit opposite us. Amongst other things, it says:   for the purpose of ensuring the availability when a state of war, or danger of war, exists, of adequate reserves and supplies of petroleum, petroleum products, petrochemicals,, minerals and refined substances capable of being used for the purpose of the defence of Australia. 
If we look at that clause alone what do we find? Those who sit opposite are always telling us that we are always at risk. We find that at present these very critical things in a critical period are in the hands of the private enterprise system and the Government has no control over them at all. Honourable gentlemen opposite stand in this place and say that they oppose this Bill purely and simply on the ground that it is not in line with their singular and very archaic free enterprise mentality- a system that has never worked anywhere in the world and that is proving daily around the world how bad it is. It is falling to pieces in every country in the world, and Australia is no exception. 
How can you make a bad thing good? Those who sit opposite are constantly trying to do that. They would support a private enterprise system to the complete exclusion of any sort of participation by the Australian Government. Did they not do this with Trans-Australia Airlines? Did they not hamstring TAA? Was it not they who said that TAA could not fly aircraft intrastate although its competitor- I use that word loosely when speaking of these people- could fly aircraft anywhere at any time? Did they not place a restriction on the use of machinery owned by TAA without any such restriction applying to its free enterprise competitor? So when they talk of this measure being some sort of threat to the free enterprise system we must conclude that they are speaking with their tongue in their cheek, because it cannot possibly be said that there is any risk to the free enterprise system. I always thought that a free enterprise system relied greatly for its existence on competition. I did not think that free enterprise was afraid of a competitor, but it seems that amongst those on the other side of this place there is a fear. They are afraid of the Australian Government going into opposition with free enterprise in a fair, businesslike and competitive way with no advantage to the Australian Government enterprise. In closing off, I am reminded of a poem by Henry Lawson, A Word to Texas Jack'. The final stanza of that poem, with a few alterations, reads: 
But when they are gone, as we are not, we find that when they go, 
They have left behind no  larnin' -  but have carted off our dough. 
-I was pleased to hear the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  say that he welcomed the hospital at Tennant Creek, even though he did endeavour to turn his speech into a political one. He mentioned the lack of housing and was critical of the Australian Government for this. He then endeavoured to raise a question that has been raised frequently about the increasing cost of building due to escalating costs in the community generally. He seemed to convey that this might even be used by the Australian Government as a reason not to proceed with the hospital. I ought to remind the honourable member in the first place that this very motion means that the hospital will proceed. When the Public Works Committee took evidence in Tennant Creek to determine for itself whether the works were justified I do not remember seeing the honourable member for the Northern Territory at the hearing, even though the town is in his constituency. Nor did I find that he had been in the town recently or for some time. 
-I have been there only once in my life. From what I can determine from the locals, I have been there more often than the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
-Yes, once more. If the honourable member had ever bothered to visit the Tennant Creek area, and he speaks glibly about the lack of housing there and seems to blame the Australian Government for that lack, and if he had spoken to the people who live there, as I and other members of the Committee did, he would know that there are plans to build houses there and that the reason the houses are not built has nothing to do with this Government but with the system the honourable member protects to the nth degree, the private enterprise system. Private builders will not go to Tennant Creek unless they have a contract worth more than $2m. The contract for the housing requirements was worth a lot less than $2m. I was told by locals in Tennant Creek that it is for that reason- I rely on their word- that contractors will not take on work at Tennant Creek. How that fact can be twisted and responsibility for that situation be laid at the feet of the Government I do not know. 
I turn to the other specious issue the honourable member for the Northern Territory raised about the costs of building rising. I think he plucked some figure out of the air. He referred to a cost of $6m or $5m- some weird figure derived from a simple arithmetical calculation in a very complex situation. It is absolutely fallacious to say that the completion date is date X, that building costs are rising by 20 per cent per annum and that one should increase the base figure by that percentage over the period it takes to construct the building. I invite the honourable member for the Northern Territory to speak with officers of the Department of Housing and Construction and to get his arithmetic correct. 
There is another side to the equation. What in fact happens is that because of clauses in the contract, any rises and falls that occur after the contract has been let are calculated rises and falls. They are calculated on the basis of award increases in wages- not sweetheart agreementsand on the increased cost of materials. These take place as progress payments are made and such payments diminish as the work proceeds because work has been done. To take a simple increase of 20 per cent and add that to the original estimated cost of $4.5m and say that it will now cost $5m or $6m is like trying to compare a horse with a cow- both have 4 legs but there the similarity ends. 
The other fallacy in the argument is that while costs are rising so is income rising. Whilst it may be true that on today's values the building is worth $4.5m or $4.83m, the volume of money available is at that level at this time but at the time the building is completed more funds are available, so the relativity remains. No relativity is lost. The honourable member for the Northern Territory tries to confuse the community and the House by quoting only one side of the equation. He quotes the side where costs are rising and ignores the side where incomes are rising. If he is the arithmetical genius he is trying to prove himself to be, I suggest he do the sort of calculation I have mentioned and perhaps explain the position later. If the relativity between costs and income remains, I suggest he should apologise. He should not take figures and multiply them so that they become larger in total or grander in scale and say it is bad, because that is only looking at one side of the picture and it gives a distorted view. One could be tempted to think this was some sort of dishonest argument. 
The proposed works undoubtedly are needed, as would be recognised by anybody who had seen the hospital at Tennant Creek. I do not think the hospital ran down in the last 2 years; it has been running down for a long time. The buildings are in a deplorable state. Some were erected as early as 1914. They are still standing and are being used. There is a need to build a new hospital at Tennant Creek. In fact there has probably been such a need for a long time. The need has finally been recognised. The Public Works Committee went to Tennant Creek and took evidence from citizens of the town and from the client department and the constructing department, deliberated on the matter and came to a very firm conclusion that the hospital ought to be built and work should proceed. I point out that it is only some weeks- in fact, in terms of sitting days of this House one could almost say it is only some days- since the report was presented to this House. I commend the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  on coming back so quickly with the expediency motion. It shows his bona fides. It shows his integrity and its shows that he believes that the hospital ought to be built as quickly as possible. 
Both the Public Works Committee and the Minister have honoured their obligations. The Committee has brought in the report and the Minister has brought in as quickly as he could the expediency motion so that the works can proceed. I commend the works to the House. I could not conceive of any argument that could be put forward by anybody in this House, including the honourable member for the Northern Territory, that the works should not proceed. Yet if anybody were to oppose the expediency motion that is what he would need to say. If he did not say that he would be using this debate only as an opportunity to put a point of view about something that is not relevant to the construction of the hospital at Tennant Creek. I commend the motion to the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish agreement on the site for the new and permanent Parliament House. Of course, the Bill presupposes that a new and permanent Parliament House will be built. Such a proposition is inevitable and the only questions remaining unresolved are where and when. This Bill, when it is passed, will have settled one of those questions by determining the site. Debate on this question has ranged over years and at least 3 sites have been seriously canvassed. Each time a site for a building is required, and I include public buildings with private buildings, attention should be given to the selection of the site. The private citizen in his selection of a site for his home pays great attention to the site for drainage, views, neighbours and of course price.  His  choice is generally limited by how much he can afford to pay. 
I might remind the House that this debate is not new, and I am not referring to the debates of the days when  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister nor when his contemporaries were Prime Ministers, nor indeed since Labor has governed. I refer to the examination as far back as 1923 in Melbourne by the Public Works Committee of information and evidence supplied by  Mr Walter  Burley Griffin, whose name is perpetuated by the artificial lake that does so much to complement this fine city of Canberra. This man was a farseeing man and apparently did not believe in temporary measures for the sake of expediency. As long ago as Tuesday, 22 May 1923, he argued against the construction of this very building. He said:  'It would never be pulled down; history teaches us that such things are not changed; the pressure being too great to allow it. Sentiment would play some pan in preventing its destruction, but the primary reason would be economy. The difference in cost between such a building and a permanent building would be very small. Fifteen per cent would more than cover the difference. 
Wise words indeed when heard in 1974 as spoken half a century before. 

 Mr Burley Griffin envisaged the Parliament House on Camp Hill, to the rear of this building, and a capital, together with residences for Prime Ministers and Governors-General on Kurrajong Hill or, as he called it, Capital Hill. To be quite clear about where Capital Hill is, and to define it to some extent, it is the larger hill to the rear of this building. It carries a flagpole that is very prominent and it is encircled by a road. I believe it would also include the small rectangle of land in front of that area between it and the lake. The decision of the Parliament in 1923 or 1924 and the construction of this building circa 1926 or 1927 made Burley Griffin's proposal impracticable. Further, the evidence of  Mr Burley  Griffin on that Tuesday in 1923 reveals that his concept was one of a capital for ceremonial purposes and a Parliament House for legislative purposes. Today, with a greater regard for the efficient use of resources and a greater emphasis on functional building design rather than grandiose buildings for ceremonial purposes, I believe that Burley Griffin, living in 1974, would say that this capital and his Parliament House should be combined. Were he to say that, I am sure he would say the conglomerate should be sited in a position of prominence. Capital Hill offers the degree of prominence needed. The site on Capital Hill has many attractions. Among them are good access by road, a view overlooking Canberra and its environs, proximity to related national buildings, and it remains within the geometrical layout of Walter Burley Griffin. As it would be clearly visible from almost every angle, the building would be a landmark for the many visitors who come to the national capital every year. Unfortunately the present building is rather hidden and difficult to find. Visitors have to be directed to it whereas the new building, by its greater prominence, would be far more obvious. 
I trust that this Bill will be passed by the Parliament without undue delay because it only seeks to establish the site and preserve it. The National Capital Development Commission will be pleased to know that the location has been established as this will assist it considerably in its endeavours to plan properly future development. Because the Bill deals only with establishing the site, it is simple and uncomplicated. The machinery for and details of developing the site with buildings and associated works would be the subject of further legislation. However, before anything happens, the Parliament must accept its responsibility to say where the new parliament house should be located. This Bill does that and I commend it to the House in the belief that it will receive swift passage. 
-I do not think it is necessary to go to great pains to defend the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  who is sitting at the table, because there is nothing to defend him against. Certainly nothing has arisen out of this debate which has amounted to allegations or charges of any substance. Indeed, the work that has been done by the Minister is recognised not only by those people living in the Northern Territory and the northern part of Australia but also it has been well recognised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  by his ministerial colleagues and by the supporters of the Government who sit on this side of the chamber. 
I was rather pleased to hear the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  speak about people in country areas and how they regard city people as consumers. He put forward a point of view that I put as long ago as 1969 when I first came here. On that occasion I said that there was no difference between city and country people. I pointed out that the alleged differences are manufactured for political purposes by those who sit in Opposition and especially those honourable members who at present sit in the north-west corner of this chamber. The honourable member was gracious enough to say that country people look upon city people as consumers. I have always believed that too. But this raises a rather curious contradiction. If country people look upon city people as consumers clearly consumers would need to have the money that is necessary to purchase the produce of the producer. Yet it seems to me that every time there is any suggestion of a wage rise for factory workers living in the cities members of the Australian Country Party in this place- I do not say that this comes from country people but from the Country Party, a political entity- scream that it should not happen. This son of thing has been going on for a long time and I presume it will always go on. 
This thinking was introduced again in this place by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who seemed to be saying that he wanted the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to make sure that any ships coming into the Port of Darwin would be unloaded by Transport Workers' Union labour rather than by Australian Waterside Workers' Federation labour. It seemed to me that what he was after was cheap labour. Apparently he believes that members of the Transport Workers' Union will unload ships at a cheaper rate than members of the Waterside Workers' Federation will.  His  view of that organisation has been well known and has been expressed over a long period. But I am firmly of the view that the only members of the Waterside Workers' Federation that he has ever met and spoken to are those working along the banks of the Todd River. This is the sort of thing that one would expect to hear from the honourable member for the Northern Territory. The honourable member has represented his electorate since 1966 and during that time he has continuously pointed out shortcomings.  His  own Government was in power for 6 years after he came into this place and apparently he did not have anything rectified during that time. I wonder whether the problems are really as serious as he tries to tell us or anybody else. 
As Chairman of the Public Works Committee I know that a good deal of money is spent and will be spent in the future by this Government in providing in the Northern Territory services that have been needed there for a long time. One example is a hospital at Tennant Creek. Other proposed works in the Northern Territory will come before the Parliament but it is not judicious to mention them at the moment. They will be to the benefit of the people of Darwin and will provide services that have been needed for a long time. The need did not arise only yesterday. This Government, principally through the actions of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory has got off its derriere and set about doing the things that need to be done urgently. There is little doubt that it will continue to do so in the future as long as it is in power, which will be for a long time. 
There was talk about works not being done in the Northern Territory. It was said that there was a shortage of workmen. I am not sure that that is the case because a lot of the jobs that are done in the Northern Territory are done by private contractors. Private contractors become a law unto themselves. They refuse to go into an area and perform work unless they can get a highly paid contract and there is a lot of work to be done. That is one of the facts of life. To say that there is a shortage of workers or that people will not work or to make some other silly statement is going too far. Is there really a difference between the Northern Territory and the rest of Australia? Certainly the distances between centres of population are greater in the Northern Territory. But do the people not congregate principally in one area in the Northern Territory as they do in other places? I understand that the bulk of the 98,000 people living in the Northern Territory live in and around the city of Darwin. Of course a number live in Alice Springs and other settlements throughout the Territory. But is the situation not exactly the same in the Northern Territory as it is in other States of Australia with the people, for reasons best known to themselves, congregated in the city areas? That brings with it problems. 
Anybody who suggests that there are no problems in the Northern Territory or that they have all been overcome is deluding himself and deluding those who are listening to him. Of course there are problems in the area, but the big difference between this Government and previous governments is that this Government recognises that there are problems in the area and it created the Departments of Northern Development and the Northern Territory. That is how concerned the Australian Labor Party is about development in the northern part of our continent. Previously the functions of these Departments were a hotch-potch, all lumped in under the Department of the Interior. The area received no special treatment at all. I believe that the people in the Northern Territory are very fortunate in that they have a department now to look after their needs. In the Minister administering that department they have a man well known in the north of Australia. Might I say that he is not only well known but he is also known well. People in northern Australia have a great affection for him. There is a reason for that and it is completely justified. While he is in charge of that department the northern end of Australia will continue to develop along proper lines because he and his departmental officers will ensure that there is proper investigation of proposals and what is needed to develop that area. There will not be just off the top of the head vote-catching propositions that have been put up in the past. So some of the things that are done may not be done in the area where it is particularly politically popular to do them but they will be done where they are needed, and needed urgently. 
I was very interested to hear the honourable member for Kennedy speaking about the development of housing in that area. He mentioned adobe housing. On the face of it, that sounds a good idea and probably is. He did not say what sort of roofing material would be used to cover such houses. It does not matter what the walls are like; if the roofing is not constructed of heat resistant material the building will still get very hot. I am sure this is something that can be overcome and that it is a problem people are looking at. The honourable member for Kennedy mentioned solar heating. This is a matter that was investigated by the Public Works Committee, I think, during the hearing on the Tennant Creek hospital. It is not as good as it sounds. It is possible, and of course it is being used quite a bit; but it is not as good as it sounds. The Public Works Committee was given some very good information by representatives of the Department of Housing and Construction on the use of solar heating. 
-It was only 12 months ago or perhaps more recently. We were given quite a deal of information. We were surprised that in an area where sunshine seems to be in great abundance greater use was not made of solar heat and solar energy. The Department gave some pretty good reasons why solar heating is not always practicable. Perhaps that may only apply to a large building like a hospital, but these officers said it was still necessary to use electricity to heat the water sufficiently. Because of that, it was then found that it was cheaper to put in an electrical unit, taking into account the running costs of the unit rather than simply to rely on solar heating. I repeat that we were speaking about a hospital and not about a private home, where the situation might be different. 
It seems that it is very easy to make blithe, bland statements about the Northern Territory, an area that is not particularly well known to a lot of people in Australia. These statements might be acceptable to those who do not know anything about it, but to those who do knowthese are the people who live in the area- they are not always particularly acceptable. They are not alway particularly true, either. I am just wondering whether when these statements are made, they are made to gain political advantage or to do what we are all hoping that we can do, assist the Minister and his Department to improve the lot of people who have elected to live in a rather remote part of Australia. But be that as it may, these improvements are very necessary to the development of Australia. It is incumbent upon all Australians to ensure that funds are spent in that area to make it more habitable in the hope that it will develop more in the future. I commend the Minister on the way that he has done his work, and I am sure will continue to do it in the future. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974,I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Australian Radiation Laboratory at Yallambie, Victoria; Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong, Victoria. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Attorney-General been drawn to a statement in the Victorian Parliament by the Victorian Attorney-General that the Australian Government had refused even to recognise the relevance of the Constitution where it conflicted with its own policies? Because the Victorian Attorney-General has claimed that the activities of the Australian Government contravened the law, will the Minister tell this House in what areas the Australian Government's initiatives are contrary to the Constitution and whether he expects a High Court challenge by the Victorian Government to Australian Government policies relating to education, health, welfare, legal aid and/or financial assistance for municipalities? 
It is a shame that the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who preceded me in this debate, wasted so much of the time available to him- he was limited to only 10 minutes- talking such a lot of hot air and rubbish. It was only in the last minute or two of his speech that he got down to talking about something sensible. He started his speech by having a sideswipe at the unions. That is par for the course for the honourable member for Gippsland. Then he had to have a bit of a square-off, of course; so he said: 'They are not all that bad; it is only the leaders who are crook'. 
-Yes. Then he got into this silly little argument about Christmas cards. It seems that the honourable member is pretty obsessed by this and believes that communication between people occurs only in that hallowed week of the year known as Christmas. I can tell him- I am sure many people listening would agree with me- that people close to me are very relieved to have a reason for not sending Christmas cards this year. It seems that it is a practice that has grown up. Cards are not necessarily sent to people who are far away; frequently they are sent to people who live across the street. 
One person who comes into my street every morning from Monday to Friday- I have spoken to him about the matter- thinks it would be a jolly good idea if people did not send Christmas cards. He is the person who has to deliver them. He staggers up the street with a great bag of mail for about 2 weeks prior to Christmas. He works long hours and is not very happy about it. He does not see his family very much. He knows, as well as I do, that the carriage of many of the articles he is carrying is pretty unnecessary and that they are communications between 2 people who see one another regularly. This silly practice of buying cards, putting them in envelopes, buying heaps of stamps and sticking them on the envelopes and so making extra work for the postal service is starting to become a bit of a chore to many people and they are not very happy about it. I do not think it is altogether true to claim that the community will be upset about having to pay extra to send Christmas cards. What is true is that probably fewer cards will be sent and I do not think anybody, apart from the card manufacturers, will grumble about it. 
The honourable member's speech was pretty remarkable in many ways. The thing that rather amused me- I could not help but smile as he was speaking- was that for the 3 years that I sat in this chamber as a member of the Opposition I heard pretty similar speeches from different members of my own Party who were then sitting in Opposition, and the speeches that members of my Party now make are similar to those that were made by honourable members opposite when they were in government. This matter has been going on year after year. It is inevitable that in an area which is as labour intensive as the Post Office is- I am speaking about mail deliveriescharges will rise as charges in the community generally are rising. Recently I was in Japan and while I was there the mail charges rose by 50 per cent. Ours have not risen by quite 50 per cent. The Japanese people do not have the same problems of delivery as we have in Australia. Japan is a much smaller country and is populated by many more people. Yet Japan found it necessary to raise its postal rates by 50 per cent. We, with all our long distances and sparse population in remote parts, find it necessary to raise mail charges. I believe that to be true around the world. 
Even with telecommunications charges rising, the Postmaster-General's Department is having difficulty in keeping up with the demand for the installation of telephonic equipment. It seems to me that there is some sort of a paradox when members such as the honourable member for Gippsland say that we are pricing everybody out of the market by putting telephone charges up so high that people cannot afford them. If his statement were true, obviously fewer people would apply to have the service installed and the ones who did would find that they could not afford it and would have it removed. But all the evidence points the opposite way. The evidence points to the fact that people are retaining their equipment and are seeking the installation of new equipment at a rate much faster than that with which the Postmaster-General's Department can cope. I know, from being a member of the Public Works Committee, that there are many references from the Postmaster-General's Department concerning the building of new telephone exchanges. Obviously the growth of telecommunications in Australia is not being impaired by the reasonable charges that are levied against the users of the system. 
On the question of telecommunications, it is pretty clear that the Post Office will be divided into 2 separate functions as a result of a report by what is known as the Vernon Committee. One of the areas concerned is telecommunications. For a number of years Australia has had an organisation known as the OTC- the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia). It has performed quite a worthwhile function as a separate entity. I put it to the Committee that were that to continue all we would have would be a continued fragmentation of similar functions. The proposal is that that service come under an Australian Telecommunications Authority. Where organisations perform like functions, such as the OTC and the telecommunications side of the PMG, I think it is pretty essential that there be a sensible restructuring of the whole area. This is something that has not been considered by previous governments for a long time; to the best of my knowledge it has not even been investigated. 
On Tuesday of the week after next the Caucus committee of which I am the secretary will be meeting with representatives of the unions which have members in the OTC and the telecommunications side of the PMG. The whole purpose of that exercise is to pave the way and to smooth out things, as the Labor Party always does when it deals with industrial matters, for the meshing in of the 2 functions. I have received a document through the mail. I do not know the people who signed it. I do not know who the people are. They claim to be the  chairman  and vice-chairman of an organisation. It comes from Sydney and it is trying to build a case as to why the OTC should not be included in the ATA. Having read through that document, having spoken about it with other people and now having spoken about it with representatives of the trade unions that are involved in this field, I find that it has many fallacies in it and that it seeks to put forward a point of view that is not altogether acceptable to people who take a responsible view on the matter. I mention that only in passing because it is part of the Post Office function. 
Let me get back to the matter about which we are speaking, namely, the appropriation of quite a large sum of money to keep the Post Office going. It is true that the Post Office, if one cares to use this archaic free enterprise expression, does not show a profit. How can it when it provides a service? I thought the honourable member for Gippsland was trying to get round to this and to say that it was necessary for the community to chip in in order to provide this service and that the cost of it should not necessarily be charged to the users of the service and those who get a benefit from it. He then said that the couriersprivate enterprise of course- were able to do the job more cheaply, more efficiently and more reliably than the Post Office. He spoke about a paradox. If ever I heard a pardoxial contribution in this chamber, I am afraid it was the 10-minute contribution by the honourable member. He spent the whole 10 minutes contradicting himself. The courier system grew up because of the attitude of the previous Government that these matters, even such important matters as communications, could be safely left in the hands of private enterprise. The point that the honourable member missed altogether is that if there is any excess of income over expenditure by the Post Office it does not go into the pocket of some greedy little capitalist, but in fact goes back into the coffers of the Australian community; it becomes part of the Australian public purse. That is where it belongs. If there is this ephemeral thing called profit from a Post Office exercise, to my mind it is far preferable that it finish up in the government coffers than that it go into the pocket of somebody who sets out to perform a service which the Australian Government can perform just as well. For those reasons I support the proposed expenditure. It is being spent very worthily in a good area, and it is being put to good use. 
-Can the Minister for Housing and Construction indicate what effect an 8 per cent across the board cut in Government spending would have? As details of what this large cut in public spending would mean are of vital interest to the electors, can the 
Minister state what an 8 per cent reduction in spending would mean if applied to funds made available by his Department for housing in the State of Queensland? Is the Minister aware that this procedure has been advocated strongly by both the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Opposition? 
-As the  Chairman  of the Committee which examined this matter, I think it is very important that some points be made. Two days were spent by the Committee investigating this matter and the tenor of the questions that were asked during the investigation was along the lines of protection of the health and well-being of people who already live in the area. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  is to be commended for the way in which he has raised the matter before the House. The proposed laboratory will be constructed in his electorate, and I know from having been present at the hearings and also from other sources since that time that there is some concern felt by people in that area about the effect of the construction of the proposed radiation laboratory at Yallambie. The honourable member mentioned 2 matters, radiation leaks and landscaping, and he went on to elaborate on both of those. On the question of radiation leaks, the Director,  Mr Stevens,  was very clearly asked about what sort of dangers existed for the people in the area and the Committee was very conscious of this aspect of the hearing. In terms of radiation as such it was agreed- and I think the  Chairman  of the Yallambie Progress Association agreed at the hearing- that it was not radiation as such that they were talking about; they were talking about the effects of fall-out or radioactive emissions from the laboratory. It was shown in the course of the evidence that most stringent precautions would be taken at the laboratory at Yallambie, far more stringent precautions than exist at the present location of the laboratory in the busy bustling centre of the city of Melbourne. It was found during the course of the inquiry that the emissions into the atmosphere came from chemical cabinets that were not in fact dealing with radioactive materials. It was also found that the other source of escape of emissions was by liquid waste and there was ample evidence to show that this liquid waste would be treated in a manner that was far more than satisfactory to the various environmental authorities throughout Australia. In fact, the liquid waste would be treated and finally pumped into the sewerage system of Melbourne, a system which it is expected should operate at some time in the future. At the moment the liquid waste is pumped into a treatment plant at Martins Lane and then pumped into the Plenty River. 
I think it is very important to say that the whole function of the laboratory is to protect the community from radiation effects, not to create such effects, and the laboratory spends most of its time measuring the effects of radiation. For example, it takes, daily, samples of milk from around Australia and samples of radioactive fallout in the community from around Australia and it measures the radioactivity of both of those products in the laboratory. So the laboratory is not there to extend radiation in the community, but is there to shield the community against background radiation and to measure accurately the amount of radiation present in the things that it measures. Radiation leaks can happen only through either air or water emissions; there is no other way in which these leaks can occur. The air emissions come from an area other than the area being used for activities which produce radioactivity, and the radioactivity in the liquid or water emissions is down to an extent where it is far lower than the level acceptable to all authorities in Australia, and indeed by authorities around the world. There is absolutely no fear of there being any effect whatsoever on the surrounding populace from the establishment of the laboratory at Yallambie- or should I say the location of the laboratory, because it is not an establishment. The laboratory already exists in a very densely populated part of Melbourne. There has been no evidence and there have been no reports that anybody in Melbourne has suffered any effect whatsoever from the present activities of the laboratory. It is inconceivable that a person of the standing of  Mr Stevens  could be challenged on his qualifications in this area of protecting the community from the effects of radiation.  His  qualifications cannot be challenged by anybody. This person gave the Committee unequivocal evidence on oath that there was absolutely no danger to the surrounding community from the activities of the laboratory. This was put very clearly before the Committee in evidence. So those people in the community who wish to peddle or hawk information that is not actually correct are in danger of doing the community a great disservice because none of the evidence that we received- there are pages and pages of it- gave an indication to anybody that there is any danger. I assure this House that the Public Works Committee, which I chair, is not an irresponsible Committee. It sees itself in the role of being a watchdog of the rights of the community. It seems to me, reading through the reports of that Committee, that this has always been its role. I only hope that I can fulfil the role of being the champion of that sort of watchdog concept, because I believe that is the role of the Public Works Committee. 
Everybody had the opportunity to give evidence. We speak of landscaping in our report. The land is owned by the Australian Government and, according to aU the planning schemes that we saw, is set aside for military purposes. I do not know that the fact that it is set aside for military purposes necessarily means that it will be used as a rifle range. I would rather think that on occasions the military would choose to use part of this land to construct buildings. 
This reference came to the attention of the community because the project will exceed in cost $2m. Had the cost been less than that, the 
Department of Defence could have erected a row of nissen huts made of galvanised iron. It could have erected them on its own land which is for its own use, as all of the planning schemes tell us. In that case the local residents would have had no opportunity to object. It is said in the evidence that those who live adjacent to this land were satisfied that the Australian Government and the Defence Department had shown a great deal of concern for their neighbours and had constructed buildings that their neighbours had found to be satisfactory. There is no indication anywhere in the evidence that the proposed building will be abhorrent. Great play was made of the fact that 40 trees would have to be removed to allow for the construction of the building. Nothing was said about the 1,000 native trees that would be planted to replace them. If people are going to talk about destroying the environment they had better start talking in terms of the truth and the facts. Instead of talking about 40 trees being destroyed they should talk about the 1,000 trees that will replace them. 
On the question of landscaping, the Australian Government, through its departments, has gone to great expense to employ professional landscapes to ensure that the area will not be incompatible with the neighbouring areas. In fact, the landscaping will commence at about the same time as the construction of the building. So as the foundations for the building are being laid, trees shall be planted. If there are 40 trees to be removed, there will be a 1,000 trees planted in their place at the same time. A great deal of attention has been given to separating the perhaps inhospitable paved areas used for car parking from the rather natural, bushlike area surrounding the site at the moment. This will all go hand in hand. In fact, banks of the order of, I think, 3 metres in height are to be built around the car parking areas to hide them from the view of those people who live in the adjacent area. 
Every attention has been given by every department that gave evidence to the dangers that might exist for the people who live nearby. The Committee determined, on all of the information which was available to it, that these dangers would be negligible. The Committee came to this conclusion not on the hysterical, emotional information given by people who were not quite sure of their facts but on the advice of people such as the director of the laboratory and other scientists acknowledged not only in Australia but also internationally. On their advice the Committee found that there was no danger to the surrounding residents. The Committee decided that what was said by all those people who live nearby was said on an emotional and not on an entirely factual basis. The Committee found for a variety of reasons that the site is desirable. As the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  says, these reasons have been outlined. In reply to a question asked by the honourable member the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has said why he believes the site is desirable. The Committee came to the same conclusion, namely, that of all of the sites which were proposed this is the most desirable. The overall plan for the development of the Army land is something, I suppose, for the Defence Department. In all honesty, I must say that the Department of Defence did not give evidence to the Committee, but a plan was made available to the Committee. This plan is dealt with in the transcript of evidence. The plan which was made available to the Committee showed the future development of that land. I believe that those who were present at the Committee hearings on those 2 days when the plan was before the Committee did take note of the planned development by the Department of Defence. 
As in all matters, an owner of land can do what he likes with that land provided he abides with all of the ordinances and regulations prescribed by the local authorities. The evidence shows that the Commonwealth departments did abide by such ordinances and regulations even though there is no statutory requirement for Australian Government departments to do so. However, they went out of their way to ensure that their proposals did come within the scope of such ordinances and regulations and they planned within the confines of those ordinances and regulations. But it is true that anybody who owns land can do what he likes with that land and build how he likes on that land. He is not required to consult his neighbours as to the sort of building that he wants to erect, provided, as I said, that he does not breach any of the local building ordinances. Surely the Australian Government is in no worse position than any private citizen who owns land anywhere at all. 
Those people who live adjacent to the land in question and who are now complaining bought the land knowing that the Watsonia military camp was there and that the land was set aside for defence or military purposes. It seems to me incongruous that those people who bought this land knowing that the land adjacent to them was set aside for defence or army or military purposesone of the witnesses said that his land backed on to the land about which we are talking- should now raise a complaint that the development for which it was set aside should not go ahead. This seems to me to be most incongruous. I just cannot understand it. In fact, anybody who reads the evidence will see that these people were asked: 'Were this land which is adjacent to you owned by an industrial company - ' 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-ln accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Rehabilitation Centre at Townsville. Queensland 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a matter of procedure. This morning, quite rightly according to standing order 43, you ensured that sufficient honourable members were in this chamber before you read prayers. Honourable members may have sincere and indeed religious objections to listening to the words used but their right not to be present is denied by the ringing of the bells calling for a quorum. Will you, as the custodian of the Standing Orders, give consideration to having them changed to allow members to enjoy their constitutional right not to engage in religious activities if they so wish? 
I suppose that we could hardly call what we have just heard from the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  a speech. The words that we have just heard from him reflect little credit on this House and certainly no credit on himself. I think they just reflect the desperate position in which the Opposition Parties now find themselves. They have raised this matter now on about 6 different occasions and we have heard the same sort of diatribe over and over again. Never, on any occasion, have Opposition members offered anything of a constructive nature. The honourable member for Gippsland mentioned that there were few members sitting on the Government side of the chamber. He ought to realise that he delivered such a puny attack that it requires only two or three Labor Party members to repel it. But he should have turned around and had a look behind him. He would have found that sitting behind him were 6 Liberal Party members, four of whom were asleep, and 8 Country Party members, six of whom entered the chamber when he started speaking. 
Unlike the previous  speaker,  it is my intention to speak to the Bill before the House. I am afraid that the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  rather lost me on more than one occasion with his great tirade of abuse against individuals and his constant stringing together of cliches and calling that a speech. It seemed to me that he lost sight of what the Bill is all about and ignored the fact that the purpose of the Bill is to bring into line elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate and to ensure that that continues for evermore. After listening to him intently for the 20 minutes that he spoke, it seemed to me that someone was going to abolish the Senate. I remind the honourable member that in fact the last Senate election in this country was a conjoint election. The members of the House of Representatives and of the Senate were elected on the one day, and certainly I do not think that the Prime Minister of this country got any advantage out of that situation. The honourable member spoke about the Government of this country not accepting the will of the people. Next time he meets in the Party room with his confreres from another place he ought to remind them that they have done nothing but obstruct legislation, and worthwhile legislation, on the whim of some short term political advantage rather than act in the interests of the nation as a whole. When he can show me that he has persuaded his colleagues that they should reject that attitude then I will be prepared to listen to any argument that he might care to put forward to the people of Australia that Senate elections and House of Representatives elections should not be held on the same day. If he is going to accuse this Government of refusing to accept the decision of the people, the same sort of allegation can be levelled against him and people of his ilk. 
The honourable member said, mustering all the oratory at his command, that there is a fundamental principle at stake. What is the fundamental principle that is at stake? How does the changing of the date for a Senate election, making it conjoint with the House of Representatives election, deny the Senate any rights whatsoever? How does it ensure that the Government of the day will or will not get a majority in the Senate? How does it deny the Senate the opportunity to conduct its obstructionism, as it has done since the conjoint election and prior to that? If he can explain these things to me I might be persuaded by his argument; but he cannot. The rights of the Senate will not be affected in any way whatsoever by the carrying of this legislation. The rights of the people- and I do not support States rights; I think people are far more important than States- will never be denied by the carrying of this legislation. In fact, it could be said, and I think quite rightly, that their rights are strengthened because on the one day the people of this country will come out and do what the Constitution envisages they will do. They will elect a parliament, and our Constitution states that Australia shall have a Parliament which shall consist of a Senate and a House of Representatives. 
It seems to me quite fallacious to advance an argument that elections ought to be held on separate days to elect half a parliament. I do not think that those people who drafted our Constitution, those people who debated it in the various State Parliaments, those people who eventually voted on it, ever envisaged that there would be an election to elect half the parliament. It seems to me that the concept must have been at all times that there was to be an election to elect the Parliament. The words 'three years' and 'six years' are certainly used in the Constitution to describe the Senate. 
-Because it was envisaged, and this is stated in another part of the Constitution, that the House of Representatives should stand for 3 years. That got out of step for a variety of reasons, and again might I say that it was not for any benefit to the people of this country but for the short term political advantage of those who sat in this House at that time. What is being proposed is that the 2 elections should be held on the same day. It was stated in the document setting out the case for a No' vote at the last referendum- with the greatest of respect to those who drafted it, a completely dishonest document- that it is easy to bring about a conjoint election. All that the Prime Minister has to do is to call an election for the House of Representatives on the day that the election for the Senate is due and you will have conjoint elections. 
-For half the Senate or for the whole Senate, it matters not; half the Senate, you are quite right. But that is only a onetime operation and, as was proved in 1963, the elections can very easily get out of kilter again. All that is being proposed by the Bill is that the Constitution should be altered and instead of stating that a senator should enjoy 3 years or 6 years in this Parliament it should provide that he should enjoy as long in this Parliament in time as 2 terms of the House of Representatives. Again, I do not know why some people in this country want to place senators as legislators in a different position from members of the House of 
Representatives, who are also legislators, and insist that a senator have a guaranteed term of office. Nobody has yet explained to me why they want to pursue that line of argument and yet say to the members of the House of Representatives: You can go to the people at any time. ' Nobody has ever explained to me why a distinction is always drawn between a senator and a member of the House of Representatives, between the Senate and the House of Representatives, between the 2 Houses of the Parliament which in the eyes of everbody in this country, certainly in my eyes, are regarded as being equal. When those questions are answered I might be inclined to change my mind on the legislation now before us. 
I discount the argument about the saving of something like $9m required to hold an election. I think it is not a relevant argument. I do not think that money is relevant when the views of the people are to be sought. The fact that it might cost $100m to run an election is no good reason not to hold an election, but I would argue against spending $9m unjustifiably. In the present situation I do not think any good argument has been advanced against the Bill. Even my eloquent and learned friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  whom I usually listen to with great interest when he speaks on matters of law, and I hope I learn something from him, on this occasion disillusioned me, because even he, with his eloquence and with his knowledge of the Constitution and of constitutional law, could not show me a good reason why elections ought to be held on separate days, why one half of the Parliament ought to be treated differently from the other half. As I have already said, because of the proportional representation method that is used to elect senators in this country- and my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has already pointed out that there are only ever 6 senators elected in a half senate election situation, the other 24 being in effect appointed by their various political parties- the Senate for ever more will be evenly balanced. We will never again see the situation that occurred prior to the introduction of proportional representation when, in a Senate of 26 members, the Australian Labor Party held 25 seats and those who opposed it held one and when, in the space of 3 years or 6 years, the position was reversed. We will never see that situation again. The ballot for the Senate always will be evenly balanced between those in the community who are progressive and belong to the Labor Party and those who are retrogressive and oppose it. Because of that it is very dangerous to rely on the present situation and to imagine that it is going to continue to evermore. Because of the fine balance in the mind of the electorate the balance of power in the Senate can change. 
I do not think that the Constitution gives the Senate the right to govern the country; yet that is what is being done at the moment by the obstructionists who sit there. Those who stand up and accuse the Prime Minister of this country of being a dictator ought to have a look at their own positions before they level those sorts of accusations. There is every justificaton for bringing the elections into line. There is every justification for making a senator equal to a member of the House of Representatives in terms of the time that he shall serve in this Paliament between elections. I have heard of no argument that carries any weight as to why the present situation should remain. The time for this debate is limited. I simply want to wind up by saying that the attitude expressed in this House by those who sit opposite is clearly indicative of the obstructionism and bloody-mindedness that besets their colleagues in another place. 
Again we have heard almost a psychotic diatribe from the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in attacking the trade union movement. The honourable member, who has just resumed his seat, seems to have almost a passion in his dislike for trade unions. It is such a passion, in fact, that he launched into an attack on a most venerable jurist who now sits on the Full Bench of the High Court of Australia. If I remember correctly, he made the comment that he hopes that that judge never becomes the Chief Justice of this country. I can tell the honourable gentleman, in passing, that that judge of the High Court probably has more chance of becoming the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia than the honourable member has of becoming Prime Minister of Australia, although the honourable member is working at that. 
Let me go through the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Wannon. He led us into many areas of half-truths and of complete misrepresentation of the facts as they are printed in the Bill. He demonstrated to us his lack of knowledge of the parent Act, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1974. When the honourable member spoke about the provisions for the procedure of giving a voice to the rank and file members, commonly known as the ballot, to be held prior to any amalgamation taking place, he indicated that he would have us believe that the provisions of this Bill leave it open for there to be manipulation of such a ballot. If the honourable member had read the Bill, he would have known that for any ballot to be conducted it must be requested by 250 members or 25 per cent of the union membership, whichever is the lesser. Following a petition being made by those people to the Industrial Registrar, a ballot will be carried out under the terms of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973. This is what is commonly called a court controlled ballot. 
The honourable member seemed to indicate that that ballot would be conducted by an Australian electoral officer or returning officer in terms of the rules of the union and that officer would ignore all the accepted principles of conducting ballots in this country. I refer to the secret ballot. The honourable member seemed to believe that there was a number of things which would not be done. I have a great deal more confidence in the people responsible for activities in this area of our community than the honourable member for Wannon obviously has. I draw to his attention the provisions of section 170A of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1974, which provides: 
1 ) A person conducting an election, or taking a step in or in connection with an election, for an office in, or in a branch of, an organisation under section 165a or under the last preceding section, may, notwithstanding anything contained in the rules of the organisation or branch, take such action and give such directions as he considers necessary in order to ensure that no irregularities occur in or in connection with the election or to remedy any procedural defects in those rules which appear to him to exist. 
What the honourable member seeks is for that provision to be repeated. It seems to me that an Act becomes pointless if the same provision is repeated over and over again. So, the argument advanced by the honourable member is pointless because the Act already contains provisions for a court controlled ballot to be conducted in the way in which we in this country expect ballots to be conducted. 
The Bill refers to the question of members being advised of the proposal. It provides for advertisements to be placed in union journals where a periodical, journal or other publication of the organisation is issued within one month from the date of the resolution of the committee of management and, in any case, in each State in a metropolitan daily newspaper. I am not one who believes that those who are interested in the affairs of their union do not bother to read daily newspapers; nor do I think that the people in the community generally do not bother to read them. To pretend that such advertisements and their purpose would remain a great mystery to the people who are members of unions is to do them a disservice and a discredit. It is something which I personally would not tolerate. 
I return to the question of union ballots. The honourable member spoke about the star nights of the Amalgamated Engineering Union. If he had as much knowledge about trade unions as he pretends to have he would know that, even though star nights are provided for in the rules, in fact the court controlled ballots were controlled according to normal electoral practices and not according to the Rules of the AEU. He also seems to think of separate unions as being some sort of entities in isolation. He has overlooked the fact that in every State an organisation of organisations exists and for the whole of Australia there exists an organisation of organisations of organisations. I speak of the trades and labour councils in the various States which, in turn, become the constituent bodies of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
Through those organisations resources are provided for each of the unions. Without the benefit of this Parliament or the members sitting in it, machinery exists within them for the resolution of disputes that arise between unions. That machinery is very effective and does not need to be provided for in some lengthy Act. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is probably the greatest Minister for Labor and Immigration that this country has ever had. I believe that when the annals of this country are written his name will be inscribed in gold letters on every page in recognition of what he has done to lighten the lot of the average worker in this country. Certainly in the annals of trade unionism his name will be forever remembered. The honourable member seemed to accuse the Minister of failing to do something about which I know the Minister is very meticulous, that is, consulting the trade unions. The Minister spends a great deal of his time consulting the trade unions, among others. He is not one who, as the honourable member for Wannon would seem to indicate, speaks only with those who are strong and powerful. The Minister has a ready ear and an open door to every trade union in this country. The trade unions know this and take advantage of it. In this way he has become the best informed person in Australia on the activities within individual unions. In that respect I think he does his job well and does it properly. 
All of the provisions of the Bill that is before us now and the one that is to follow have been drawn up in close consultation with those who will be affected by them. I refer to the trade unions and the members thereof. Honourable members opposite, of course, would like to take a far more pious position than that and would like to decree from a position of power what shall happen to those who are ordinary members of ordinary trade unions. Their psychotic fear of large organisations and the power that they have is not shared by me. I suppose, to be realistic about it, many of the unions because of their size probably do have a far greater power or a potentially greater power than they have ever in fact put into effect. They have a concern for their members and it is because of this that they go about their business. 
Nowhere in this Bill is any union forced into amalgamation. Nowhere in this Bill is any union or are the members of any union told that it shall amalgamate with another union. So, the contention that the provisions of the Bill will cause the smaller unions to lose their identity, which they would want to maintain, is completely without substance. If they do not want to amalgamate, they do not have to amalgamate. At ali times it is on the heads of the members, guided by the duly elected and properly elected leaders, as to whether or not they should agree to a course of action. So nobody loses an identity. People maintain an identity. But there is provision for the unions to amalgamate if the members so desire. 
The legislation that was brought in by the last Minister for Labour- I think he was called the Minister for Labour and National Service at that time and I am pleased to see that the present Minister refused to accept that dreadful title - and steam-rollered through this House and the Senate contained provisions which made it virtually impossible for trade unions to amalgamate. On the face of it, it appears to be a very attractive proposal. All that is required is for half the membership to return their ballot papers and for half of those who return their ballot papers to agree to the proposal. However, there is no existing legislation dealing with trade union ballots as there is dealing with elections conducted in the community generally. In other words, there is no compulsory ballot in trade unions. A reliance is placed on people to face up to their responsibilities and to send back their ballot papers. The question of postal ballots is almost a phobia with honourable members opposite. I invite them to study what happened in the Miscellaneous Workers Union in New South Wales in 2 cases that subsequently came before the courts. There had been interference with ballot papers that had been delivered through the post to members of the union. Prosecutions were launched and convictions were gained in both cases. If it is the desire of the honourable member for Wannon to drive members of unions to that position- I sometimes doubt his motives for wanting to do that- it is quite clear from past experience of the manipulation by some unscrupulous people that that will not work. 
The provisions in the Bill are far more acceptable to the trade unions- we must remember that the members of the trade unions are the people who are affected by this legislation- than those which exist at the moment. It is because there has been consultation with the unions and an honest endeavour to ensure that each of the unions and the members of the unions have every available right to them to protect themselves and to put their point of view, that the BUI has been drafted. There is no guarantee in the existing legislation that that is the case. Many members of a trade union would be denied any rights at all simply by the apathy of others, simply by a campaign being waged to say 'Do not return your ballot paper', or by the ballot papers being intercepted and never reaching the returning officer. 
-I did not mention the Commonwealth Electoral Office. If the honourable member had taken his spare wool out of his ears and had been listening he would have heard me say what occurred in New South Wales with the Miscellaneous Workers Union. It had nothing to do with the Electoral Office. Ballot papers were intercepted in the post and did not arrive. There is a perfect example in the court records in New South Wales and I invite the honourable member to read the court records to find out what happened instead of beating the air with his gums. 
-I am not sure what that stands for but I agree with the Minister. I do not know who intercepted the ballot papers. The point I am trying to make here is that an amalgamation honestly intended and agreed to by the majority of members of a union can be frustrated in a variety of ways. The simplest way to frustrate it is not to vote at all. The next way, which is probably more complicated, is that the NCC people whom the Minister speaks about and whom it is alleged are friends of the honourable members for Wannon - 
-It has been confirmed that they are friends of the honourable member. In some way they are able to intercept the maUs and make off with the ballot papers. This casts no reflection on the postal services. If the honourable member wants to know how it was done I Will tell him. When the postman arrived with a ballot paper at a particular address a gentleman knocked on the door and said: I am sorry. You received a ballot paper in the maU today. There has been a bit of a cross-up in communications. The whole ballot has been called off. I have been deputed to pick up your ballot paper and take it back.' Who would question a person like that? The members gave him the ballot papers and away he went. Those ballot papers were intercepted in the course of a mail delivery. They were never found. They were never actually delivered to the person who was supposed to receive them. They were not filled in by the person who was supposed to fill them in. All sorts of malpractices like that can arise. I think it is far more desirable that the present provisions remain than- I am lost for words to describe the honourable member's liking for postal ballots as if that were some sacrosanct way of ensuring that the ballot was honest. 
-I can hear some rumblings in the background. I think that somebody left the door of the barn open. I do not want to delay the House further. The legislation is fair, just and equitable. The arguments of the honourable member for Wannon are too silly to warrant considering, let alone answering. This measure has been brought forward by the Minister after close and careful consultation with the people who are involved- the trade unions. It has their sanction and, so long as they agree with the measure and disagree with another in this place I will support the measure with which they agree. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-I feel obliged to make some comment on the matter. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has put his point of view, and he is entitled to do so. He has raised, as I understand, two very important matters. One was the width of the road from Erldunda to a place called Mount Cavanagh on the South Australian border which is in fact 2 feet wider than the road between Alice Springs and Erldunda. On the face of it I do not suppose one would worry very much whether the shoulders of one section of the road were 12 inches wider than they are in another section. But the decision to increase the width of the road does increase the cost- I say for the information of the honourable member- by some $600,000. 
The Public Works Committee "of which the honourable member and the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  were members recommended most strongly that the road continue to the South Australian border. I think the honourable member for Wakefield used these words: 'If we were right then we are wrong now. ' He argued: 'If we said that the road from Alice Springs to Erldunda should be 20 feet in width, 22 feet is now the wrong width'. I quarrel with that because there was a change of government in 1972 after the decision had been taken. This fact cannot be overlooked. As a result of the change of government there was a change of attitude towards many things including the construction of roads. Standards have been set by the Minister for Transport (  Mr Charles  Jones) and his Department. The standard is now 22 feet instead of 20 feet. I do not think that the honourable member can simply say that if the decision in 1 97 1 was right the decision in 1 974 is wrong or vice versa. Surely these things are subject to changes in circumstances as they arise from time to time. As I have outlined, there has been a change in the standards of road construction. 
-As my colleague has just pointed out, they are higher and, we trust, better. But that has yet to be tested. It could be said, I suppose, that the road should of necessity be better because it is now 2 feet wider. My honourable friend- he is a friend of mine- from 
Wakefield has raised this matter I think principally on the basis of a letter that was sent to me as  Chairman  of the Public Works Commitee by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  in December of last year. I am not sure whether I should have regarded that letter as a piece of private correspondence or should have brought it to the attention of the Committee. I chose the latter course and brought it to the attention of the Committee. It was the first advice that the Committee had received that the Stuart Highway was to be sealed and properly constructed from Erldunda to the South Australian border. 
Having paid that courtesy to the Committee and made that information available it now seems that the information is to be used for the purpose of saying that the road is no longer urgent. I feel duty bound to explain to the House that at that time it became clear following conversations between me, Ministers of the Crown and the honourable member for Wakefield that there had not been any real settlement on the matter when the Minister for the Northern Territory wrote to me. The letter did not come from the constructing authority of the Department of Housing and Construction; it came from a very dedicated Minister who has a great regard for the area over which he has responsibility- the Northern Territory. In an endeavour to gain as much information as he could he wrote to me and I passed the letter on to the Committee. Now it seems that that letter, and that letter alone, is to be used as some sort of weapon to indicate that the urgency that was alleged to exist at the time does not exist now. 
Further inquiries have led me to the information that it was practical to keep the road machinery- and this, was the reason that was given, I think, in the last week of the sitting of this Parliament in December last year- where it was after the sealing and construction of the road from Alice Springs to Erldunda had been completed and to keep it working. I think any practical person would agree with that. I understand that most of that machinery is still on site and still ready for work. I do not think the matter of urgency has changed with the intervention of some two or three months. I think the most salient point that the honourable member for Wakefield was making is that there is a new standard for roads in Australia. My friend the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  has already indicated that that standard is better. I accept prima facie the words that he used. However, being an investigatory committee such as the Public Works Committee is I think it is desirable that we should inquire into the new standard and we should know whether the new standard is better or not. We are now talking about a road 60 miles in length, whatever that is in kilometres, at a cost of $3.2m. It has been approved in principle by a previous Public Works Committee, the only difference being that the pavement width of the road is now 2 feet or 24 inches, whatever that is in centimetres, wider than the original pavement. But the road has been approved. 
I also have further information available to me that in May this year it is hoped that the Public Works Committee will get a reference from this Parliament for examination of the Stuart and Barkly highways at a total cost of about $30m. When these matters come forward I would think that would be a far more appropriate time to establish the national standards for roads. I emphasise the word 'national' because it is the first time in this country that we will have had a national standard for roads. That standard has been determined by departmental people. It is yet to go to the jump, if I may use that colloquialism- the Public Works Committee, which is a very severe hurdle as most of the departments know. It is yet to be examined by that Committee. My information is that there is every possibility that these 2 matters involving the Stuart and Barkly highways will become available sometime in May, when it is hoped to bring the matter before the Public Works Committee for examination. 
Thirty million dollars worth of roads is being designed and constructed to the new standards of roads and no longer does our Government allow ad hoc decisions to be taken. The very delay about which the honourable member for Wakefield complains is because there was consultation not only between the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  as the constructing authority and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  as the Minister responsible for the Department that wanted the road, the client department, but also there was consultation with the Minister of the Crown who has responsibility for the roads, the railways, airlines and all other transport systems in this country. That might have caused a delay and perhaps the Minister for the Northern Territory might have been a little premature but no harm has been done. Nothing has changed and I see little justification to agree with the criticism. The important thing is that the Public Works Committee, of which the honourable member of Wakefield is the  deputy chairman,  will have the opportunity, as I understand it, to examine the standards of construction of national roads in this country when the Stuar. and Barkly highways come before the Public Works Committee. 
I commend the motion to the House. There are ample reasons why this project should proceed immediately. So far as the route is concerned there might be some quibbles but there is no real dispute. The standard of the road is no less than the present road between Erldunda and Alice Springs. It could be, again as my friend the honourable member for Swan said, better at an extra cost of $600,000. There was agreement by the Public Works Committee in June 1971 that the road ought to be constructed. To do a little bit of nit picking, to pick people up on something that they might perhaps not have done as well as they should have done is only to delay the project and I do not think the people in Darwin would be served any grand purpose by that being done. 
So I commend the motion moved by the Minister and I trust that the House will carry it so that we can get on with the construction of this road and make available a sealed highway from Port Pirie to Darwin so that goods can move into Darwin by road under all weather conditions rather than rely on the method now being used. That is important. It is probably the most important reason for this section of the road because now a person can leave Darwin, travel on the Stuart Highway, get to Erldunda and suddenly finish up in the sand. It is essential that there be a sealed highway from Port Pirie to Darwin and that is all that this reference does. It just fills in that missing link and I do not think that there can be any reasonable objection to it. I commend the motion to the House. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the Thirtyseventh General Report and the Thirty-eighth General Report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Central Hospital Services Complex- Stage 2 in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security say whether there are any circumstances in which Australians could be denied the great benefits of Medibank? Is he aware of any proposals for a re-imposition of punitive health insurance contributions following the introduction of Medibank from 1 July? 
I propose to the House for its  Speaker Mr Scholes  and move: 
That the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  do take the Chair of this House as  Speaker. 
It is with a great deal of pleasure that I nominate my friend, the honourable member for Corio,  Mr Scholes,  for the position of  Speaker  of this House. I have no wish to refer to the unfortunate circumstances that brought about this election. If other honourable members of this House wish to do so that is their business. My function is to speak to this House on the virtues of  Mr Scholes  as the  Speaker  of the House; about his experience in the Chair which has been witnessed by all of us; about his ability while acting as  Chairman  of Committees which has also been witnessed by all of us; and about the dignity which  Mr Scholes  will bring to this office. Many honourable members have sat in this House longer than I. We know from experience the way in which  Mr Scholes  has performed his duties as  Chairman  of Committees in this House since the election of the Labor Government in 1972. Those honourable members who were here before then will know that  Mr Scholes  in his position as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees brought to the Chair whenever he occupied it the dignity which is required for the highest office which this House can offer to any person. 
I commend  Mr Scholes  to the House. I have no wish to make any comments about the honourable member for Angas,  Mr Giles,  a person for whom I have some personal affection. However, in these very serious circumstances personal affections are of little account when one must make a choice. I put it to my fellow members of this House that this choice is a serious one for the person who will occupy the Chair will continue in the traditions of those who preceded him. 

 Mr Clerk, having said that I would be most remiss if I did not take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the capacity and capability of the immediate past  Speaker  of this House the honourable member for Sydney,  Mr James  Cope. (Opposition members interjecting)- 

 -Mr Clerk, I hope that the exhibition which we have just witnessed ceases of now and that no longer will the dignity of this House be called into question by the undignified, behaviour of those who occupied office for some 23 years and cannot accept the proposition of sitting in Opposition where they appear as a disorganised rabble, and this is well known to the people of Australia. 

 Mr Clerk, the elevation of  Mr Scholes  to the most august position that this House can offer, as I have said already, will bring with it dignity. I am not suggesting that dignity has not been there in the past; of course it has been there. But it seems to me that what is required as of now- it is impossible to unscramble eggs- is somebody who will take to task those who seem bent upon destroying the dignity of this House and preventing the business of this House proceeding. (Opposition members interjecting) 
-Those who sit opposite may raise their voices in opposition but they have not done so well in the past. Unless their manners improve, this House will not function in the way that it should. I strongly commend to the House the candidature of  Mr Scholes  for the office of  Speaker. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974,I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Orchestral Studio and Music Centre at Brisbane, Queensland; 
Malak Primary and Pre-school at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
Following that rather discourteous disruption to this debate I find it a little difficult to collect my wits on the matter of public importance that has been raised by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the need to establish a select committee of this House. As the honourable member is the shadow Minister for labour and industrial relations I should have thought that he would have taken advantage of the mass of information that is available to him from the Department of our very fine Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
I feel sure that the honourable member has read a document put out by the Department of Labor and Immigration. If he wants to know where the unemployed people are- it seems that that is what he is asking in paragraph (a) of the matter of public importance he has raised- and if he were to put a question to the Minister at any time the Minister could tell the honourable member, simply by quoting from this document, what classification of employees under the metal trades award are out or work, where they are out of work, what vacancies exist- town by town, classification by classification, in every State. So the statistical information already exists. Another delightful document put out by the Minister's Department is entitled 'Monthly Review of the Employment Situation'. I recommend to the honourable member for Wannon that he should take the time and have the patience to read that document. I am sure that he would be able to obtain it from the Minister's office without any trouble at all. 
What are we really talking about on the whole question of unemployment? In order to look at that, I suppose we need to go to the very core of our whole society. By the term 'core of our whole society' I mean the whole structure and nature of it- the pursuit of profit and the whole capitalist system generally, which seems to be based on the consumption of manufactured goods. Unemployment exists in every country that follows that sort of trend. I can instance Canada, the United States, Italy, Denmark and numerous others. In every single one of those countries unemployment was at a rate higher than the average rate in Australia for the decade 1962 to 1972. So for the Opposition to belabour the point that the present unemployment situation in Australia is the making of the present Government seems to stretch the bounds of credibility a lot. For instance, in January this year unemployment in Canada reached 6.7 per cent; in the United States it was 8.2 per cent; in Italy it was 4.1 per cent; in Denmark it was 6.5 per cent; and in Australia it was 4.1 per cent. I do not say that there is any connection between the figures; I use them merely as an illustration of the fact- this has been said by both the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Labor and Immigration- that unemployment is not a phenomenon peculiar to Australia. It is a phenomenon to be found in every capitalistic and manufacturing country in the world. 
What do we find when we look at the type of people who are unemployed? We find that they are principally people who have no skills. Those people could be used in the community if they had skills, but they have none. We then ask ourselves why they do not have skills. In this regard we can go back longer than the 2 years that Labor has been in office and we can say that the previous Government did nothing to encourage young people to stay at school- they were not given the simple opportunity of staying at school to improve their educational standing under the previous Government- and no encouragement was given to industry to set up apprentice training schemes. So we have in Australia a lack of skilled tradesmen and a great number of unskilled people who just have not had the opportunity to become skilled. We have a shortage of technical teachers in every State of Australia, and particularly in those States that are governed by the Liberal confreres of those who sit opposite. The Labor Government has done everything to correct and overcome those things, but it cannot be done in 5 minutes. We just cannot untangle in 2 years the mess or the web that was left after 23 years of ineptitude. 
I think the Minister for Labor and Immigration answered very well the charges in relation to the working of the National Employment and Training scheme. It is giving an opportunity to people who were denied by the previous Liberal Government the opportunity to receive training in skills. The Labor Government is making that sort pf opportunity available to them, albeit they are now mature people and they should have had that opportunity when they were young. The honourable member for Wannon said that one of the reasons for delays occurring in the regional employment offices was the lack of staff. It seems that he is in some disagreement with his Leader in this regard because his Leader seems to advocate a cutback in Government spending. The employment of more people would involve an increase in Government spending. I just wanted to point out the difference between an increase and a decrease. So it seems that the Opposition says one thing when the occasion suits it and then turns around and changes it to something of a different vein. 
I do not know what regional employment offices the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  visits, but the 3 offices that service my area- I do not have a pocket handkerchief electorate- are probably the most efficient in the State. I pay great credit to the staffs working there. They are so efficient that I sometimes think that the Minister must have handpicked them. They are excellent people. They are doing their job very well and their knowledge of the area that they administer is beyond doubt. As a consequence, although I represent an are a that is not noted for its millionaires- rather is it noted for people in the unskilled and semi-skilled categories; those who normally find themselves unemployed the quickest- I find that there is no problem. My office is right beside one of the regional employment offices. Over the last 6 months perhaps only one or two people have come and asked me a question about the NEAT scheme; other inquiries have been answered satisfactorily by the officers in the Department. 
I reject out of hand the proposition that a select committee should be established, because it could do no more than is being done now. The Government is doing all of the things that a select committee would be asked to do. It seems to me that it would be a duplication of work and it would be an imposition on the time of members if they were to be asked to come together as a committee to consider matters that the Government is not simply considering but is doing. As the Minister has already pointed out, the recently announced figures show that there has been a decrease in unemployment. So, if the Opposition wants to talk about the desirability of new measures to reduce unemployment, I suggest that it talk about its whole philosophy in relation to how our society is structured and about its socalled free enterprise laissez faire proposition. The Opposition should ask itself: 'How do we distribute the wealth created for those who employ the workers?' We do it by employing people and giving them wages for their work. But with the introduction of greater mechanisation and more machinery the need for people to be employed will be less and less. I would be pleased to hear how the Opposition, with its capitalistic outlook, is going to solve that problem. 
To say that the Regional Employment Development scheme is not working is to make one of the most untrue statements ever to be made in this House. I was speaking to my very good friend, the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett),  and he told me that in his area work has been found for 300 people, all of whom are engaged in what would be considered to be community work and an asset to the community. That is not an isolated instance; there are many instances that one could give of the RED scheme providing the funds for essential community projects and, in turn, providing employment for people. So, to suggest that the RED scheme is not working is to make a very misleading statement. The rules as to parliamentary language prevent me from expressing my feelings in stronger terms. In an endeavour to score some political capital out of the situation, it seems that the Opposition is feeding the Australian community this constant line of untruths, but the community will not swallow it. There is little more that can be said about the matter of public importance. It was not put very substantially by either of the speakers who spoke for it. It is very difficult to argue against something that was not put very strongly in the first place. I shall leave it at that and just let the matter lie. 
-Because of the concern expressed in Victoria over the proposed Medibank scheme, can the Minister for Social Security advise the House what stage has been reached in negotiations with the Minister for Health or the Premier in Victoria regarding Medibank? 
After that exercise which was like an Alice in Wonderland exercise, I should like to ask one question: 'Will the real Country Party please stand up?' We are debating clause 21 of the Bill. Those who have spoken from the Opposition side against it seemed to speak with a great deal of naivety. They seem to be unaware of what is happening in the community generally. They do not seem to know as much about their pet subject as the community who voted for them. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  on one occasion or more during this debate has said that matters will be determined by public servants- the decisions will be made by a public servant. He made this point again when he talked about clause 2 1 , and asked who would decide. I rather thought the left side of his lip curled a bit when he said: 'It will be decided by a public servant'. But the honourable gentleman did not say anything about what the alternative to that would be. It will be determined either by a public servant or somebody who is involved in the election- a member, a Minister, a Prime Minister or a leader of a party. Who could be more impartial than a public servant? Does the honourable member know that the Chief Returning Officer for Australia is a public servant? Is he not happy that a man as impartial as that gentleman presides over his elections? There is no - 
An honourable member- They used to be. 
-What was that snide comment? Who said that? Nobody has the courage to admit to having said it. The honourable gentleman ought to be a bit more wary in his language when he talks about public servants because in that area, impartiality is the key-note. Irrespective of that snide interjection by that person who masquerades over there as an honourable gentleman and will not own up to having made it, the people who conduct the elections in this country are honest and impartial. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  talks about there being some attempt by the Labor Party to deny individuals the right to stand for an election because of the registration of parties. That does not deny any individual the right to stand. I wonder why we talk about the registration of parties. How does one define a party? That is what the Bill sets out to do. Why do people want to call themselves a party? Clearly in the electorate there must be an advantage to being a party. It seems to me that if this is a fact, there is nothing wrong in asking people to have a qualification to be a party. Seven fellows are not allowed to go on to a cricket ground and call themselves a cricket team. It is insisted that there be 11 people. Fourteen men are not allowed to go on to a football ground and call themselves a football team. It is made sure that there are eighteen of them. 

 Mr KEITH JOHNSON I do not know about other sports, but I am speaking of football. In all of those areas where there is some sort of a qualification, it must be clearly defined. What is wrong with making the definition of a political party 'one which will contest a quarter of the seats in a State'. There is nothing difficult about that; there is nothing strange or curious about it. It is no different from a cricket team or a football team in that respect. It is simply a method of defining what constitutes a party. If there is an advantage to be gained in the electorate by calling oneselves a party, then why should people not be prepared to contest the required number of seats and call themselves a party? What is strange about that? There always seems to be something sinister in these things when honourable members opposite speak. They only ever speak by innuendo; they never put forward anything positive that can be answered. The question of the registration of party names is important. It goes even further than that. I instance 2 cases in Victoria- Maribyrnong in one case and Casey in the other. The ALP candidate in Maribyrnong was named O'Brien. 
-J. O'Brien as my comrade from Diamond Valley reminds me. 
-It is an expression that is used in the Salvation Army and the Returned Servicemen's League. There is nothing wrong with it. Another J. O 'Brien was nominated alongside him. On the ballot paper there were two J. O'Briens and nothing to distinguish either of them. When the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  stood for election another R. Mathews appeared on the ballot paper. Apparently the people involved had not gone into the situation far enough and they got the initials wrong. These were deliberate attempts to run candidates with exactly the same names as those of the Labor Party candidates. One does not have to put on the ballot paper the size of a man's shoes, his religion or what size collar he has. We are talking only of party political affiliations. But in the case of Maribyrnong if 'J. O'Brien ALP' were printed on the ballot paper, surely this would make the elector more enlightened. I do not hold my electors in contempt as the honourable member for Hume does. He pretends that they know nothing about what is going on. The electors in my electorate, because they vote for me, are extraordinarily intelligent. At the same time there are occasions when they are denied information and there is an embarrassment on the part of the returning officer, who is a public servant and an impartial person, when an elector comes to make a vote because he or she is going away. They are entitled to make a vote in the returning office. If they say to the returning officer 'Who is the Australian Labor Party candidate?' or 'Who is the Liberal Party candidate?' or 'Who is the Democratic Labor Party candidate?', of course he is in no way in a position to guide them, nor can he have any literature in the returning office to help them. That person has to take a punt on how he casts his vote. I think electors are entitled to something better than that. 
The honourable member for Hume talks about the retention of democracy in our community. That sort of thing is so naive and so calculated to try to make a poor argument sound good, that it just does not go over. The retention of democracy in our community means that the most information that can possibly be conveyed to people on election day should be conveyed to them. The Bill- it will retain democracy more than anything else- sets out to do just that. The one piece of paper that the person must touch on election day should have on it as much information as is necessary to enable the electors to cast a vote. To pretend that the party system does not work in Australia and in Britain, which is a comparable country with a comparable parliamentary system, is to deny any reason. Without the party system this Parliament would not function. I invite honourable members opposite to sit down and think about that one. The community knows that. We are a pan of the community and we have organised ourselves into parties because we know that. How many times since Federation have Independents sat in this chamber? We know that the system does not work in that way. 
The whole purpose of the exercise is to make sure that the respected and revered names of the present parties are not stolen and there is no attempt to steal them. As my friend the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  pointed out, honourable members opposite raised no objection when a provision was written into the companies legislation that no company is allowed to use a name that is very close to that of a competitor. They have raised no objection to that, but they do not want the names of political parties to be registered. What are honourable members opposite trying to hide? There is no reason why, as I have said, this information should not be placed on the one piece of paper that an elector will handle, that is, his ballot paper. Why should it not show the party affiliation of the candidates for whom he has to vote? An elector has every right to have that information made available to him or her. That is the best way of doing it. Of course, it will not be just a simple question of printing on the side of the ballot paper the party affiliations. Of necessity there will need to be some degree of regulation to make sure that even that practice is not prostituted or used to achieve bad ends. That is not the purpose of this clause. I support it. I could not conceive of any sound argument against it. 
I have been sitting listening very carefully to what the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has been saying. He could have made a number of points. I appreciate that he curtailed his remarks to comply with the request to be brief. But I remind him that 20 of the 34 amendments now before us were instigated in the first instance by bis own Party when it was in government. He seems to know a lot about the voting system the Australian Labor Party uses in its Caucus room. He should have told us, if he intended to be fair and impartial, that in his own Party room they have a secret ballot to elect their leaders. The ballot papers are never seen by anybody except the  chairman  and then they are promptly destroyed. If he is talking about fair and honest ballots he should put his own house in order first. 
The honourable member spoke about the development of a party and the definition' of a party. He seems to complain that the Bill requires that a number of seats in each State be held" by a party for that group of people to be able' to call itself a genuine political party. If the Opposition had its way and took that provision out of the act then we would have the crazy, chaotic situation of any individual being able to nominate himself as a political party. I am quite sure that the honourable member is well versed enough in the Westminister system of government that we use to know that that would only bring chaos to our whole political system. Perhaps he can see some advantage out of that to his own political Party. Frankly, I cannot. I can see it only creating confusion in the . minds of the electors and some sort of prostitution of a decent electoral system. 
He spoke about the reduction of the hours of polling from the period 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. to the period 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. He said that the extra 2 hours were not needed because computers were processing the results. Then curiously enough he went on to tell us about the time when he was in a polling booth as a scrutineer and stood and watched people counting votes by hand. If he can cite any occasion on which computers have ever counted ballot papers in this country I will go he. He knows very well that the counting of ballot papers is a manual task and computers are not used for this purpose. 
The honourable member then made some scurrilous attack in regard to the most recent result in the electorate of Stirling He spent a few minutes of his time simply insulting and casting a slur on the electoral officers who conducted the election in that electorate. He said that there were too many votes in one bundle and not enough in the other. I would remind the honourable member again that members of political parties are not permitted to touch ballot papers in polling booths. This is purely and simply the task of the people employed by the Electoral Office. As a scrutineer he should know that he was able to stand and watch what they were doing but could not touch anything. An officer of the Electoral Office would have been responsible if there were more ballot papers in one bundle than another. Yet, the honourable member is trying to tell us that these people are under some sort of political guidance, jurisdiction- call it what you like- to put more ballot papers in one bundle than the other. I reject this charge out of hand. I trust that the people of Australia who are listening to this debate and who heard what the honourable member said will also reject that charge out of hand and regard it as being some sort of reflection on his credibility. 
One of the most curious aspects of the debates that have taken place on this measure in both this House and the Senate when this same Bill was before us for consideration was the unwillingness of the Opposition to scrutinise and examine this legislation carefully clause by clause. 
Neither in this House nor in the other Houseand the debate was not gagged- did the Opposition ask for the opportunity to examine the matter in Committee. In both Houses members of the Opposition simply voted against the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I repeat that in neither House did Opposition members avail themselves of the opportunity, which was not denied to them, to examine this Bill clause by clause. Yet in this place they did nothing to oppose the clauses that they found objectionable. If one cares to read the debates that took place on this measure late last year one will find that 2 basic oppositions were put forward to the Bill. One was that members of the Opposition did not trust the legislation because it was brought in by the Labor Party. Yet, as I have already pointed out, 20 of the 34 clauses in the Bill were introduced or proposed by the previous Government which now sits in Opposition. 
The other reason they gave was that the time had not been made available to them for careful examination of approximately 34 changes to be made to the electoral law. Well, the best that can be said for that objection is that it is no longer valid because this document in its present form has been available since it was introduced in this House on 13 November 1974-5 months ago. Surely one of the vast army of Opposition spokesmen could have examined the Bill. In fact, they need only take one of the amendments each, there are so many of them. 
To canvass fully all of these 34 points by a member in the 20 minutes available to him is, of course, impossible. But why cannot the Opposition disregard its policy of obstructionism and agree to those clauses to which it has no objection, so that the debate can be generated around those clauses to which it has objection? Let us air our differences and examine the fallacies and hypocrisies of our own arguments. Many of the 34 changes are purely of an administrative nature and simply bring this legislation into line with other legislation on these matters. For example, clauses 9 and 10 propose to change enrolment qualifications from 'British subject' to 'status of a British subject', which is in line with related laws. Clause 6 will enable the employment of support staff for Distribution Commissioners and simply overcomes a shortcoming in the present Act. This change should have been made years ago. 
Clause 16 provides authority for alterations to the roll when a street is renamed or renumbered. All that does is save the poor old elector telling the returning officer something he already knows but cannot correct. How about allowing the appointment of Presiding Officers and/or Assistant Presiding Officers who are 18 years of age or over? Our present laws allow persons 18 years of age to vote but prevent the appointment of those same people as assistants at a poll. Clause 5 provides for an overseas Assistant Returning Officer, during his temporary absence or inability to perform his duties of office, to appoint a substitute Assistant Returning Officer and that could hardly be quarrelled with. 
The Bill provides for the provision of fines as an alternative to imprisonment where relevant. Surely no one would ever advocate gaoling people when monetary fines provide sufficient deterrents. The Bill also provides for monetary penalties to match imprisonment terms. Again, this is in line with accepted practice. Clause 23 places members of the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory or of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly in exactly the same position as any member of any of the 6 State legislatures. In other words, the members of the assemblies of the territories will need to resign their seats no less than 14 days before a poll as do members of the State legislatures. 
Clauses 42 and 44 make the asking of questions of voters at the discretion of the Presiding Officers, although a safeguard is provided that a scrutineer may require the questions to be put. But the real fact about this matter is that the present Act is in conflict with itself, and each time a voter is asked a question he is in fact challenged by the Presiding Officer as to whether or not he has the right to vote. Clause 27 provides for measurements to be in metric measure rather than imperial and again this is in line with contemporary practice. Clause 43 is concerned with the use of the term 'given names' rather than 'Christian names' and this simply and solely recognises the variety of views and religions which we encourage in our community. 
Clause 54 seeks to correct an anomaly whereby a candidate can unwittingly place his candidacy in jeopardy because an election is announced less than 3 months before it is, held. Had he made a gift or donation just prior to the announcement of such an election he would be guilty of an offence. The Bill provides a perfectly fair and equitable defence for the candidate placed in this position. Clause 1 simply changes the title of the Act from the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973 to the more descriptive Electoral Act 1 9 1 8- 1 974. 
Surely none of these 13 amendment's , can attract much reasoned opposition or argument, and therefore they should be  agreed,,  to' and disposed of so that the remaining 20-odd amendments to the Act can be examined in detail. I readily concede that any or all of the remaining amendments can arouse healthy argument. Had the Bill been considered in Committee by both Houses last year the Government would be better informed as to the specific objections of the Opposition. 
If I were a suspicious person I might be induced to think that the Australian Country Party or the National Country Party or the National Party, or whatever its name is for the time being- perhaps they are separate parties and not just separate names- is using muscle on the Liberal Party of Australia to ensure that the present archaic law remains unchanged. If I were uninformed of the contents of the Bill the opposition of the Country Party to it would be sufficient grounds for me to agree that the changes will bring electoral justice. 
Let us examine those matters which will bring greater convenience to the elector and give no advantage or provide no disadvantage to any candidate whether or not he or she be a representative of a political Party. Principal among these matters must surely be a simpler way of expressing preference of candidates, indeed, a system of voting which would provide a choice for electors without in any way denying the right of voters. The Bill now provides for optional preferential marking of ballot papers. This would be more relevant in a Senate election than a House of Representatives election where generally there are fewer candidates. However, in passing I mention the general election of 1 966 for the House of Representatives when at least one long-standing and highly regarded member of this House lost his seat because of a fairly high informal vote. I refer to  Mr Reg  Pollard, then the honourable member for Lalor and a Cabinet Minister in the Chifley Government. 
On that occasion there was a multitude of candidates 8 in all- for a single seat. Most of the candidates were members of the Royal Australian Air Force at Laverton which was situated in the Federal division of Lalor. They wished to leave the Service but could not do so unless they nominated for the Australian Parliament, in which case they were obliged to leave the Service. The number of informal votes cast on that occasion was extraordinarily high. The result was fairly close so a recount was conducted between polling day and the date for the return, of the writs. I was actively involved with that count for about a week. It became very clear to me that on the ballot papers excluded by the returning officer as invalid- of course, within the scope of the Act he had no option- the voters had expressed their order of preference correctly for 6 of the 8 candidates. Where did they go wrong? Pollard had 2 candidates' names beneath his name on the ballot paper and the electors who wished to vote for Pollard started with his name, marked No. 1 beside it and went up the ballot paper marking the candidate above him No. 2 and so on until the candidate on the top of the ballot. paper was reached, he receiving No. 6 preference. The electors then went next to the candidate under Pollard and for some reason known only to them perhaps they gave him No. 8 preference and the one underneath him No. 9 preference. That was the position. There were 8 candidates and because of this confusion in the dying hours of filling in ballot papers the whole result was thrown out and a very fine prospective member was lost to the Parliament. 
One could instance such examples time and time again in relation to Senate elections when ballot papers are marked and the clear intention of electors so far as the number of people to be elected is concerned has been expressed. But all of those good votes have been thrown out because somewhere about 73 or 74 the voters became tired and neglected to put a number on the ballot paper or put the same number in twice. One could go through all of these proposals that are before the House. Time does not permit this at this stage. It is probably more appropriate that that be done at the Committee stage of the consideration of the Bill. In conclusion, I simply say that there is agreement on this matter in the community. I do not think that members of the community look for any political advantage for any political party but look for a convenient way of filling in ballot papers so that their wish can be expressed. Certainly, there is a feeling in the community that the laws that govern the voting for candidates for this place or for the Senate need review. This Bill is doing that. Because of that it deserves the support of the House. I say without any fear or equivocation that I would rather suspect those who stand up and actively oppose the five amendments that have been put forward in this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for the Northern Territory. Can he advise the House why he is not attending a most important meeting in Darwin today of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and, as  Chairman  of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund, a meeting to determine further policies for the distribution throughout Australia of Darwin relief money? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, unlike the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  it is my intention to speak to the Trade Union Training Authority Bill. 
-I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether he has received a request from the Australian Chamber of Commerce for the Government to cease all activities which interfere with complete freedom of private enterprise. Has he given consideration to the effect on employment opportunities of removing Government intervention in opposition to this freedom, such as tariffs, subsidies and tax concessions? Will the Minister assure the House that he will not comply with such a request as that of the Australian Chamber of Commerce that the Government should act to increase the present unemployment level by 100 percent? 
I speak in support of the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill and in opposition to the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  speaks about co-operation. I sincerely hope that in his Party room next Tuesday morning he will speak to his senator colleagues and remind them that there is a need for co-operation if this Parliament is to work properly. This whole debate has been very interesting, albeit that the facts have been twisted. Information has been distorted and one must look at the reasons why this has happened. Very large sums of money have been mentioned in the debate this afternoon and this evening as being the capital of the insurance companies. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  made the position quite clear. Amounts running into thousands of millions of dollars have been cited. 
-I will deal with the National Country Party later in my speech. With that sort of capital investment involved by the private insurance companies, there seems to be a little over reaction or an over-kill sort of attitude when we are talking about an insurance office that is starting out with a capital of $lm. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  should not start counting to see whether a quorum is present in the House. 
-He cannot count to more than nine, he has a finger missing on his left hand. With that sort of capital already invested, it seems that the insurance companies are overreacting. I might remind the House that I am a policy holder with the Australian Mutual Provident Society. 
-I took out the policy 20 years ago. I did not know what was going to happen now. I might have to cancel that policy. The Leader of the National Country Party, the right honourable  Mr Doug  Anthony, said that high taxation is destroying the ability of private insurance companies to pay bonuses. But no honourable member has said so far in the debate that there is a rule under the provisions of the Income Tax Act that requires 30 per cent of the profits of insurance companies to be invested in Australian Government securities. It looks to me as if 30 per cent- one-third- of the insurance companies' profits are non-taxable. 
-I do not know who drew up the Income Tax Act. Perhaps the honourable member is able to tell me. I wonder how many other companies in Australia enjoy a position in which one-third of their profits is not taxed. We have heard talk about the high taxation of insurance companies. We ought to examine the spin-offs that the insurance companies enjoy. 
It has long been known that the campaign funds of the National Country Party come from commissions paid to the Party on sales of insurance by its members to their fellow farmers. How many farm gates do honourable members see as they drive around the country bearing a sign saying that the person who resides in the house is the agent for such and such an insurance company? I have been told and I believe that it is reliable information that something in excess of $60,000 a year- perhaps a member of the National Country Party can correct me on thiscomes into the campaign funds and coffers of that Party out of trading in insurance. 
-The honourable member for Barton reminds me that it is $80,000 a year. Probably that is only in New South Wales. So it is very obvious why the National Country Party has been so violent in its attack on the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. We have heard a lot said about the drain-off of funds for investment. Where have the funds of the present insurance companies gone? I believe that the greater bulk of them has gone into erecting concrete Weeties boxes. 
-Yes, concrete mausoleums in every one of the capital cities of Australia, for speculative purposes. Most of the buildings that they have erected- office blocks in the capital cities- are still untenanted and half of them are vacant. The reason for that is obvious. Erecting buildings like that is the same as buying land for speculative purposes. The honourable member for McPherson said that this venture will be no more successful than any other Australian Government venture. He did not bother to elaborate which of the Australian Government ventures are unsuccessful. It seems to me that without any support or special benefit, every commercial venture in which the Australian Government is involved is running as successfully as, if not more successfully than, those which are operated by the private enterprise system. 
To listen to the Leader of the National Country Party we need to transport ourselves back in time to about 1947 and 1948. One could go back further. I notice that the honourable member for Gippsland thinks this is very amusing. I invite him to read the debates that took place when the Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Andrew  Fisher, introduced the Commonwealth Bank into Australia or when there was a threat by the Chifley Government to ensure that the banking system in Australia had some rationale. I invite him to read those 2 debates that took place in about 1913 and 1947. The arguments that were advanced on these occasions were advanced again this evening in this House now that it is mooted by the Australian Government that it will enter into the field of insurance, an area that is not denied to the Federal Government by the Constitution. In fact, the Constitution almost invites the Australian Government to enter the field of insurance. 
I am always surprised by the actions of the National Country Party. Looking at various areas of insurance, I am surprised again. Most Australian farmers export the commodities that they produce. As Australia is an island, of necessity these exports must be carried by sea. Australian farmers do not consign their goods by ship and let those goods go to sea without seeking to cover the risk; they take out marine insurance on their goods. This form of insurance is known by a term that I do not quite understand. It is called an invisible. 
-That is not surprising. If I were as dumb as the honourable member is, I would understand much less than I understand now. This 'invisible' is a cost against what the farmer will receive for the product that he has produced and is seeking to sell. So, if the Australian Government Insurance Corporation does what the Opposition tells us it will do- that is, operate on a non-profit basis- this will mean, of necessity, lower premiums on goods shipped overseas. I would have thought that this was money in the farmers ' pockets and that the members of the National Country Party, the great champions of the farmers in this country, would rise up to support such a proposition. 
What have we found in the House today? An amendment to the second reading motion has been moved by the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch).  He has been deserted by his National Country Party colleagues. They have not stood up and said that, if the Australian Government Insurance Corporation can insure at a lower premium than that charged by the Swiss based insurance companies on the commodity that the farmer produces and sends overseas, the farmer is marginally better off. No! Members of the National Country Party are still thinking about the $80,000 that they get as a kick-back from the sale of insurance in their own area. That is far more important to them. (Quorum formed.) 
It is very interesting that present in the House at the moment are 5 members of the National Country Party and 7 members of the Liberal Party. That shows the interest that those Parties have in this measure. Yet, the honourable member for Gippsland takes delight in calling a quorum. The only intelligent speech he ever makes is when he stands up and says:  'Mr Speaker,  I draw your attention to the state of the House'. It seems to me that greater attention ought to be paid to this legislation by those who sit opposite and who use their voices to oppose it. They have indicated that they will use their brutal weight of numbers in another chamber to hold this great measure back from the Australian people. It is a measure which the Australian people obviously want and demand. 
Let us not forget the types of insurance that are not offered by existing Australian insurance companies in the free enterprise, private enterprise system, which is the sacred cow of those who sit opposite. When the former Liberal-Country Party Government introduced conscription in this country and, against their will, hundreds of young Australian men were conscripted into the Army, the insurance companies immediately refused to insure those men. Let us not forget all the other areas in which - 
-It is true. 
-It is true. I suggest that the honourable member get off the telephone and talk to me when he has finished speaking on the telephone. It is important that this measure be carried. There can be no diminution in the funds available for investment. To say that there will be is to suggest that the Aus.tralian people will no longer invest their funds in insurance companies. Quite frankly, when one looks at the return that they receive now on their capital investment, one could not blame them. The bonuses which are paid by the life insurance companies are very low; they are down to an average of 2 per cent per annum, which is a rate of return that one could expect from any Australian savings bank. One could not blame the people for not investing with these insurance companies. But to suggest that, because the Australian Government is entering into this field, there will be a diminution of funds available for investment is, I think, to try to take Australians by the Achilles heel and hang them upside-down. That argument must be rejected on the basis that it is not true, as the capital outlay in respect of the Corporation will be a miserable $lm which means that, in the first place, it cannot be a very big office. The same sort of funds will be available. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation will operate under exactly the same circumstances and conditions as apply to the existing companies, and the Bill provides that. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Flinders states:  ... to enable the provisions of the Bill to be more adequately considered, the House is of opinion that further progress of the Bill should be deferred until the Budget sittings. 
How long do Opposition members need to consider the proposition? They can read the mechanics of it in the Bill. They know the philosophy of the proposition of the Australian Government to engage in all fields of insurance. How long do they need to consider the matter? Why will their consideration over a period of 10 weeks be better than their study in the weeks that have been available to them already? The insurance companies of this country wrote to me more than a week ago to tell me what a bad measure this is. They have had time to consider it. They have had time to look at it and to tell me what a bad measure they think it is. On the Opposition side of the House are people who allege that they are professional politicians. They say that they can read. The time that has been available to them to date is longer than the time that has been available to the insurance companies of Australia. Yet, the insurance companies have written to me to tell me that they think this is a bad piece of legislation. How stupid the members of the Opposition make themselves look when an amendment such as this is moved? Such an amendment must be rejected out of hand. If honourable members opposite cannot sit down, think about this matter in the course of a week and come forward with something far more concrete than this amendment, they can call me 'Rhubarb'. 
This matter certainly deserves careful consideration. I cannot be convinced that those intelligent gentlemen who sit opposite have not carefully considered the Bill. I have had time to do that, and I received the Bill no earlier than they did. With my rather limited intelligence, I was able to come to a conclusion about the legislation. I think that it deserves support. That to me seems to be a pretty reasonable sort of thing to do. Those opposite, in the time that has been available to them, could not form an opinion on it. They have had a party meeting since. Why do they not come out and tell us the decision of their party meeting? It was taken on a secret ballot which nobody bothered to count. They decided to reject the measure. Will they tell us that? They had a joint party meeting last Tuesday morning at which they took this decision. But they come in with this humbug and say: 'We have not had time to consider the matter'. Of course they have had time to consider it. They have rejected it. Tell us that now. 
-I am always grateful for your protection,  Mr Speaker.  I am one of the poor people in this House who really need protection. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I conclude my very worthwhile contribution to this debate by saying that the Australian people know that the views of the 300 entrenched insurance companies, of the Opposition and especially of the National Country Party of Australia which has been most vocal in saying that this measure is not wanted by the Australian people, are wrong. The measure is one of those that the Australian people have thought about and have had put before them, and not only at the election in May of last year. Elections have been held pretty frequently in Australia and I think they will be more frequent in the future than they have been in the past. Somebody today quoted to us part of the Australian Labor Party's platform. It is said in our platform, which is not a secret document but is something- (Quorum formed). 
-I have said this before and I think it needs to be said again: The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  was a lecturer in political science, and I think it is to the everlasting benefit of those who are now students that he is no longer a lecturer. He moved into many false areas and adopted a conciliatory manner. Those who were listening to him and who are not fully aware of what is really going on would have been left with the impression that this Government or the Australian Labor Party drew the lines on the map. If the honourable gentleman had been honest he would have conceded that it was the Distribution Commissioners who drew the lines on the map- 3 independent peopleand drew them as the law said they ought to be drawn. So, the Government had no influence in the matter; the Labor Party had no influence in the matter. If it did, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party had as much influence as the Government or the Labor Party had. The honourable gentleman does not do himself, the parliamentary process in this country or the community a service when he endeavours to mislead the House by giving that sort of impression. 
He spoke about an undemocratic advantage being given to the Australian Labor Party. I listened carefully to what the honourable gentleman was saying. Throughout his remarks he used the words 'figures' and 'doing sums '. I have been a member of this Parliament only since 1 969. 1 like to think that I came here to represent people and not statistics. I would like to think that I came here to put a point of view that would effect people and not to sit down with my pocket calculator and do arithmetical calculations and use the people in my electorate and the people in the rest of Australia as the basis for those calculations. It would be impossible to draw up a redistribution of electoral boundaries for Victoria or, for that matter, anywhere else that would please everybody. If it is found after the areas have been subdivided that the redistribution favours one party or the other, the parties that are disadvantaged will complain. It is true that neither the Liberal Party of Australia nor the National Country Party put a submission before the Redistribution Commissioners. The members of both Parties had plenty to say after the electoral maps were published, but that is how much interest they had in the matter- neither party prepared a submission. This great democratic National Country Party, or whatever it calls itself for the time being, had such a great interest in the matter that it said the redistribution was crook even before the Commissioners were appointed. It said that it was a bad redistribution before the Commissioners had even been appointed. This is the nature of these people opposite. 
In my view, there are 2 things to be considered when we talk about redistributions. As I have heard the contributions to these electoral redistribution debates especially from members of the National Country Party, some honourable members opposite seem to think that being a member of Parliament revolves only around going around the electorate and servicing the electorate. I concede that that is a very important function of a member of Parliament. But this Parliament-this building or this chamber where the decisions are made- does not enter into that field at all. In this area we start to talk about the other role that the parliamentarian plays, as a legislator or decision maker. If he is to perform that task he must express the view of the people of the electorate- not the statistics, the peopleas accurately as possible in this chamber. In that way we have the views of the whole community transmitted to this chamber. That is not possible whilst an electorate like mine has a voting strength or population of 87 000 and an electorate like Wimmera has a voting strength of 45 000. 1 will concede that it is far more difficult to service electorates like Mallee, Wimmera, Indi, Gippsland and the other larger electorates in the other States. I readily concede the difficulty in servicing the electors in these seats. That is something that can be overcome readily. There are facilities available to members of Parliament now. They no longer have to ride around on their ponies or in their traps to go out to see these people. They no longer have to use their floating rail cart or whatever members used in earlier days. It is unfortunate that the National Country Party is still geared to that bygone age. Since then Alexander Graham Bell has invented the telephone, Henry Ford has been responsible for developing the motor car and the Wright brothers were given credit for making sure that heavier-than-air machines could fly - 
-They can afford them. We must keep our thinking clear on the 2 aspects that I mentioned: Firstly, servicing the electorate, and, secondly, representing the population of Australia in this chamber. When we speak about representing the population of Australia in this chamber, nobody could disagree with the proposition that each electorate ought to be as nearly as practicable equal in size so far as numbers of people are concerned. I take the minds of honourable members back to our Australian Constitution, the bible by which we as a Government and a Parliament live. There is a thread running through it as to how a redistribution is arrived at. Without quoting the Constitution verbatim, it states that the Senate shall be constituted of an equal number of representatives from each of the States and that twice that number shall be divided into the population of Australia and the figure arrived at shall become the quota. The quota shall be divided into the population of a State and the result of that shall determine how many seats there are in a State. If there is a remaining number, an extra seat shall be allocated in that State. It is also stated that no State shall be represented by fewer than 5 members. That is how the Constitution tells us a redistribution will be conducted. 
The Australian Labor Party did not draw up the rules. The Liberal Party did not draw them up and the National Country Party did not draw them up. The Constitution tells us how to do it. Using that formula, Victoria must return 34 members to this Parliament. If we are to be equitable, as the Constitution has been until now, as I have quoted it to honourable members, then surely there must be equity in the next step. Surely it must be said that each of those 34 divisions must, as nearly as is practicable, be equal in terms of people- not area, but people. Area is only a consideration when we talk about the serving of the people in it. But a redistribution becomes a gerrymander when a member starts to represent area, haystacks, fence posts or anything other than people in the electorate. 
That is the attitude that has  overtaken the  members of the National Country Party and held them captive for so long. They might well contend that we must find a more effective way of doing things and provide more facilities to service the people in their electorates. For instance, it could be said that more facilities are needed in Gippsland than Johnson needs in Burke. I would agree with that. I would support members of the National Country Party 100 per cent. But if you stand up and tell me that I must represent twice as many people as another member, but that I will not be allowed to put up my hand twice, then 
I think that is inequitable. That is where I part company with you. 
Under the previous law, there could be a variation of 20 per cent above the quota or 20 per cent below the quota. In fact, there could be a variation of 40 per cent between electorates where one electorate was 20 per cent over the quota and another was 20 per cent under the quota. That is too big a margin. So this Government, in its wisdom and with the consent of a Joint Sitting of the Parliament, reduced that variation to 10 percent. 
-It is not weight of numbers. It seems to me that there could still be a variation of 20 per cent between electorates with one electorate being 10 per cent over the quota and another being 10 per cent below the quota. Such a provision must be in the legislation because there are changes in the demography of electorates. For instance, my electorate is the fastest growing electorate in Victoria. Its population is increasing at the rate of something like 10 000 electors a year. I humbly believe that in terms of servicing the people those electors are probably receiving the best service in Australia. If I may pontificate I will give some advice to the Liberal Party which, unfortunately, has only 3 members in the House at the moment. (Quorum formed). I find it rather disturbing to see only 2 members of the Liberal Party in the chamber- one has just left. The advice I give to the Liberal Party- I think the members of that Party should take it- is that it has performed probably the silliest political act that it has ever performed in letting the National Country Party stand over it and tell it to reject this proposal. 
Having been involved in some pretty dicey political situations over a number of years, I can with great experience say to the Liberal Party that this was its golden opportunity to shake off the fleas from its body. The Liberal Party neglected to take it. Never again, should it ever become the government at a future time, which is perhaps doubtful, would it be able to bring in a redistribution that would give it- never mind about the Labor Party- as much as this redistribution will give it now. The Liberal Party has muffed this opportunity. It had an opportunity to reduce the influence of the National Country Party in the coalition. If the Liberal Party is frightened that the National Country Party will say, 'We will pack up our bags and go home', I would invite it to look at the situation in Western Australia where the Premier had the courage to tell the National Country Party in that State, 'Well, if you want to go home, go home '. 
Nothing is so important to the National Country Party as to sit on the Treasury benches. That Party does not serve any purpose sitting on the corner benches. It wields no power from the corner benches. It wields power only from the Treasury benches and unless it is part of the coalition it will never sit there. The National Country Party needs the Liberal Party more than the Liberal Party needs it. This is a lesson that the Liberal Party did not learn. In the Senate it knocked out two redistribution proposals concerning the States of Tasmania and South Australia. It threw them straight out of the Senate and it will live to regret it. The Liberal Party will rue this day forever more. Never will it get a redistribution that will suit it so well. 
The Liberal Party could have won the seat of McMillan in Victoria. It could have won the seat of Mallee in Victoria and it would have been without the seat of Wimmera, which is proposed to be incorporated into the seat of Mallee under the proposals. If the Liberal Party is to advance it will have to advance at the expense of the National Country Party. I do not mind that. I would be on the sidelines cheering it on. 
As far as is humanly possible the redistribution is fair. It is not possible to bring in a redistribution that will please everyone or all parties. But it seems to me that the proposed redistribution does give the people- they are the ones about whom I am concerned- far more equitable representation in this Parliament than they now have. I say that on the basis of numbers of people not acres, hectares, tree stumps, fence posts, haystacks or anything else. My case rests there. I think that I have made it very well and I am sure that the House will agree with the proposal put forward by the Minister. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974,I present the reports relating to the folowing proposed works: 
Australian Government Centre at Parramatta, New South Wales. 
Road Safety and Standards Authority Facilities at Albury/Wodonga. 
EdgecliffTelephone Exchange, Sydney, N.S.W. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  raised quite a number of questions. I am sure that he did not mean to convey the impression that the people of Parramatta do not want this project in their city. I make 2 points: The first one is that the Joint Committee on Public Works is a bi-partisan Committee. The Public Works Committee Act gives the opportunity to any member of the Committee to have his views included in a report of the Committee. So because there is no contrary view expressed in the report submitted to the House it must be accepted that the members of the Public Works Committee- Government supporters and those members who are not on the Government sidewere unanimous in their views as expressed in the report. 
As the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  outlined when he moved the expediency motion for the acceptance of this report the project provides not only a tower block to accommodate 5000 public servants but also quite a number of community facilities, to wit, a 750-seat theatre and a 200-seat theatre for use by community groups. I would have thought that the priorities of the Parramatta City Council were such that that august body would never allocate funds to build such facilities. So unless they are included in this project, the citizens of Parramatta will be without these cultural facilities and they are certainly needed. 
I would like to correct a misconception that the honourable member for Parramatta may have left with us when he talked about the Government not paying rates on government buildings. This is certainly a contentious issue. I would not say that there was unanimity amongst the Committee members on this question. But it is not a matter which concerns the Committee. However, I point out that paragraph 5 1 of the report states that an ex-gratia payment will be made equal to the rates that would have been paid for the commercial part of the building if it were not Australian Government owned. But the city of Parramatta is not giving the Australian Government anything at all. The report goes on to state: 
Payments will also be made for any services rendered by a _ rating authority such as the supply of water, sewerage, * electricity or the collection of garbage. 
The services that the City provides to the complex will be paid for. It will be paid rates for the area that is being used for commercial purposes -for revenue-bringing purposes. I fail to see- the honourable member for Parramatta did not convince me on this matter- where the City of Parramatta is missing out, unless its officials are like cash registers wanting more money. I do not think that that is the case, having spoken to the Mayor and his officers. I do not think that they are that sort of people. I think that they are far wiser than that. We should not be left with the misconception that just because this will be an Australian Government building and because the Australian Government does not pay rates all the cost will be borne by the people of Parramatta. That is not true. 
The honourable member also told us- the report states this- that there will be car parking space for 305 cars in the basement area and for 40 cars along the colonnade frontages, that is offstreet parking. Then he told us that 600 cars could be parked on the old  Meggitt  site. I did not have time to count the motor cars the day I saw them. But I do not doubt the honourable member's word. He is a very truthful and honourable man. I take his word that 600 motor cars can be parked on the old Meggitt site. But what is the history of that site? It was purchased only in 1973. In 1974 the building that stood on the site was demolished. It is now 1975. Nobody could answer my question when I asked where the 600 cars were parked before the building was demolished and the land was made available as a parking site. Where did the motor cars park? Somebody said that they parked in the streets. I had a look in the streets and they still had cars parked in them. To me, that justifies the action taken by the Committee in recommending that there be no increase in the car parking facilities. 
There are a number of reasons why the Committee did this. The Committee felt that all of the reasons were good reasons. It is true that it is the Australian Government's policy to encourage people to use public transport. But that in itself did not influence the Committee. The Committee was appalled at the volume of traffic on the roads in Parramatta at the times when we were there, and we saw the position for most of the day. We could not be convinced that to provide another 1200 car parking spaces would be a good idea because another 1200 cars could not be carried by the road system in the area. The Australian Government has a practice of providing offstreet parking space for official vehicles. It also has a policy of fostering the use of public transport. Evidence given by the Department of Transport at the hearing was that the recommendations of the Sydney Area Transportation Study incorporated the objective that major government investment be made in the Parramatta area to provide a major public transport system to cater for the expanded workforce expected to utilise the planned Parramatta central business district. 
The Australian Government in 1974- this is well worth noting- offered to construct and operate without cost- I emphasise that- to the New South Wales Government a railway system radiating from Parramatta to Hoxton Park in the south-west, Castle Hill in the north-west and through Carlingford to Epping in the north-east. In subsequent consultations between the Australian and New South Wales Governments regarding this offer it was agreed that a transport study be undertaken for the Parramatta area and a comparative study of alternative long-term public transport systems for the Parramatta subregion be completed by June 1975. The study will cover the general issues of car parking, road widenings and public transport improvements. 
We would therefore compromise the long-term transportation objectives of the Australian Government if additional car parking spaces were to be recommended by the Public Works Committee. 
Some other considerations were involved. They included the high cost of providing extra car parking spaces. It was estimated that to provide 1200 car parking spaces and to take the basement down another floor would cost in the order of $12,000 per car parking space. The main factor influencing that high cost is the water-charged nature of the site which presents waterproofing and drainage problems and the pinning of the basement to prevent notation problems. Other high cost factors included excavation, ventilation and the provision of lift services. Our advice from the Department of Housing and Construction indicated that the cost of providing a multi-storey car parking station is around $2,400 to $2,700 per car. 
There is only one other point that I wish to make in relation to transport. I think that the honourable member for Parramatta had his wires crossed and that he attacked the wrong government. He should have talked about the New South Wales Government and not about the Australian Government which is doing its damnedest to make Parramatta a better place for those very charming people who live there. But when the honourable member for Parramatta spoke he left the impression with this House and with the people listening to the debate that the Australian Government does very little or nothing in regard to car parking. A question was asked at the hearing in Parramatta to which a reply was given by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. It was that the Australian Government has already spent $60,000 in that area- given freely to the City of Parramatta to purchase car parking space. We ought to be a little fair in relation to this matter. The Aus.tralian Government has played its part. It has already given $60,000 through the Grants Commission. I know that other funds are going to the City. The Australian Government is providing to the City at no capital cost 2 theatres, an elderly citizens' club, a gymnasium, and a number of other facilities that would be beyond the financial capacity of the City itself to provide. This is because its priorities he in other areas. It is concerned about its road system; I think that the City has its priorities right there. As I say, these facilities are being provided to the community at no cost. I would have thought that the people of Parramatta would welcome this. In fact, I have a rather sneaking suspicion that those people in 
Parramatta who spoke in opposition to the proposal were not truly reflecting the views of the people of Parramatta. I am confirmed in my mind that the people of Parramatta will regard this building with some pride when it is erected on the frontage of O'Connell and George Streets. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put 
-I rise in support of the attitude expressed by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I very much support the remarks made by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  whose interest in this matter is well known to the House. He has expressed a consistent view over a number of years. The purpose of the proposed Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House is to get on with the job of designing and building a new and permanent Parliament House for the Parliament of Australia. The present building is inadequate. Those who live in it know that very well. The opening comment of those who visit it always is: 'What a very old and archaic building it is'. 
The comfort of honourable members is not my prime concern. It seems to me that the amendments suggested by the Senate go more to the subject of the comfort of honourable member's at the moment than it goes to what in my view is the principal subject, and that is a building far more contemporary with political life in Australia and certainly far more contemporary with a parliament in a developing country in the last quarter of the 20th century and one that we trust will serve well into the 21st century. The present building not only has limitations in accommodation for members but in my view it has grave limitations in the way in which it causes the parliamentary system to operate. The present building places a great deal of restraints and constrictions upon the very function it is supposed to assist the Parliament to carry out. It constrains and restricts the members in the carrying out of their tasks; it constrains and restricts the Parliament in its deliberation on a very wide variety of subjects. 
For those reasons I support the attitude expressed that the amendments suggested by the Senate ought to be rejected and that the proposition that was carried by this House is a sound one because it goes to the very root of the problem. It goes to the problem of getting a permanent Parliament House constructed on the site that has been decided by this Parliament, and that is Capital Hill. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development has pointed out already that there is in existence a committee to care for this building; that is, the Joint House Committee. If. the proposition as agreed to by this House is changed in accordance with the modification suggested by the Senate the proposed committee will start to lose its effectiveness and it will divide its efforts between 2 jobs. Some honourable members may be of the view that the committee can function properly by exercising its mind in deliberating on 2 matters at the same time, but I am afraid that that is not my view and I am sure that it is not the view of the House. As I said, there is in existence a committee to care for the present Parliament House. 
It is proposed that a committee be formed to look after, to investigate and to oversee the design and construction of a new parliament house. I hope that this House, without disagreement, will report back to the Senate that it does not agree with the suggested changes. I also hope that at a very early date the proposed committee will be set up so that it may get on with the task of devising a new parliament house that will be far more in line with what is required in Australia from the 1970s right through to the year 2000. It is my hopeful wish that the same sort of institution will be in existence in the year 2 100. 1 commend the motion to the House. 
-Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to a statement this morning that adverse community reaction to Tuesday's Budget has been excessive and dangerous? Can the Treasurer say whether the statement refers to a genuine community feeling or to synthetic indignation manufactured by some newspapers and some individuals for party political purposes? Can he say what the dangers are for Australia in conduct of this kind? 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the intended use of land in Camp Road, Broadmeadows, previously occupied by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, still as stated in the answer to Question No. 5270(Hansard, 22 March 1972, page 107 1 ). 
) If the use is to be different, what are the details. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-74, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Telephone Exchange Building at Deakin, Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-With the same sort of surprise as the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  initiated in this House, I support the Budget We sat and listened for the best part of 20 minutes to the speech by the honourable member. It is rather indicative of his attitude that having lost the battie he is now going to vacate the field. It is a pity that the fine speech we just heard was not spoilt by the honourable member's introducing facts into it. The honourable gentleman who has just left was a career soldier. He reached the rank, I understand, of Lieutenant-Colonel. I know, honourable members know and those who are listening to this debate know, what is the role of a soldier. So it is not surprising that the honourable member should object that money should be spend out of the national Budget on such things as culture and recreation. What do soldiers know about culture? What do soldiers know about quality of life? It is the role of a soldier to kill people rather than to make sure that they have a good life. If someone can show me that the role of any soldier in history was to preserve life I would be pleased to hear about it. 
The honourable member represents the area of Riverina, a rural electorate which until 1974 was represented by probably one of the finest members who ever stood in this chamber. It is unfortunate that he is not here today because if he were the honourable member who has now left the chamber would not be, and that would be to the advantage of this chamber. The honourable member for Riverina talked about rural industries. He talked about areas of need and priority as does every member on the opposite side when they speak. I suppose budgets are about priorities, are they not? Of course they are. But the difference is that the priorities of the Labor Party and the Government lie in the area of quality of life, in the area of education, in the area of welfare services and in the area of community health. What are the priorities of those who oppose that? If they oppose that obviously their priorities must stand where the financial resources of this country are directed towards big business. I use the word 'big' with some degree of strength because the parties opposite could not care less about the small business people in this country. The small businesses in this country which are run by Australians are of no value to the people who sit opposite to us. What they are interested in is supporting the larger companies that are commonly known as multinational corporations. And who owns the multinational corporations? They are owned by people other than Australians. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)-  I think that is the Party's name for the time being - 
-That is today's name, as the honourable member reminds me. It may have another one tomorrow. What is the attitude of the Leader of the National Country Party? He wants to support the multinational oil producing companies. He wants to drill for oil all over this country. He wants to increase the wellhead price. He will stand up, if he has not already spoken in this debate, and criticise us for putting up the excise on petrol. But left to his own devices he would have put up the price of crude oil which in turn would have flowed right throughout the community and increased the costs much more than the Labor Party can be accused of doing. 
All sorts of industries- for example, the insurance industry- are owned by people outside Australia, people in multinational corporations. During the last war, for instance, multinational corporations which built machines of war in America built machines of war in Germany for use against the British and American nations. If those people opposite can find some degree of morality in that it is for them to sort it out with their consciences. As I said earlier, we are talking about priorities when we talk about this Budget. We are talking about where the priorities ought to lie. In my view the Labor Party- the Governmenthas quite properly established its priorities in this area. It has allocated funds and resources available to it to areas that are going to be of benefit to the community. Last Tuesday night those of us who were privileged to be in this House, those of the community who were lucky enough to get into the gallery and those of the general public who were unfortunate enough to have their radios tuned in had to listen to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  bring in what he said was his alternative to the Budget. 
Well, it probably was more progressive but reading one of tins morning's newspapers- and I am not one of those to knock the journalists; I think they get their priorities straight- I found that somewhere between the comics and the crossword puzzle was its assessment of what the Leader of the Opposition had to say about Labor's Budget. 
-If I could not read at all I would be a member of the Country Party. The newspapers got their priorities right and they had featured on their front pages things of far more importance than the rubbish that was poured out in this House last night by the Leader of the Opposition. If those who support the Leader of the Opposition in his attitude care to fornicate around the boots of the multinational companies, care to grovel in the dust of big business, care to do all those things, that is up to their consciences. I find myself free of pressures of this sort. I find myself unpersuaded by the arguments put by them. But still with brutal force of numbers in another place the pressure is applied. I came to this place only in 1969. Those honourable members who were not here then and who have taken the time to read the debates will remember the controversy that still raged in 1969 about the war in Vietnam. Those of us who opposed Australia 's involvement to the war in Vietnam were branded traitors in this House. We were called aU sorts of nasty names. But it seems to me that history since has shown that people opposed to Australia's involvement in Vietnam took a moral, correct and- in the eyes of the community- a justifiable attitude. But because we opposed Australian involvement in Vietnam we were accused of being traitors. 
What is the situation in Australia today? Everyone, from the top to the bottom, says that there is an investment strike going on. They say that those in this country who have money to invest are afraid to invest it. We have to ask ourselves why they are afraid to invest it. What comes out of this House on the Opposition side at the rate of about 200 words a minute? The answer is all sorts of premomitions of gloom, all sorts of propositions. I come back to the premise on which I started about companies and businesses. The local business cannot withdraw its capital for too long. It needs to invest it. But the multinationals, of course, can withhold their capital for as long as they like. That is exactly what is going on. They are hopeful for a change of government in Australia. If there is a change of government in Australia again they will be able to come in on their own terms and conditions as they have done in the past and put up all sorts of pretty propositions. I suppose it is unparliamentary to call those who sit opposite twits, so I will have to think of another word. Perhaps those who are not without any leaning towards the future of our great country - 
-If the honourable member does not mind being called a twit, he is a twit. That sort of attitude continues and honourable members opposite denigrate our country. We all are citizens of this country whether we are ashamed of it like those who sit opposite or whether we are proud of it like those of us who sit on this side. The people who keep denigrating our country and saying that certain things are detrimental are, in my view, far more traitorous than those who stood up in 1964, 1965, 1966 and 1969. The people who tell us that there is no future in Australia are far more traitorous, I repeat, than anybody in this country has ever been. 
They kowtow to big business. They worry about the amount of the public purse that finds its way into the free enterprise section of the community. What does 'the free enterprise section' mean? Honourable members opposite want to cut back on Government spending. Do they not realise that more than half the money that the Government allocates each year goes into the private enterprise sector? Do they not realise that most of the $2,000m allocated for education this year will go into buildings, the construction of schools and the renovating of old buildings. It will go to the State governments. What do the State governments do? They do not build schools. They do not use day labour to build their schools. They set about having a school planned and designed and then they let a tender. Who takes up the tender? Curiously enough it is the private sector that takes up the tender. So for a start if the Opposition cuts back on the spending on education, as it intends to do, it will not only deny the children in my electorate and in many other well represented electorates an education not based on the depth of their parents' pockets; it will also stop a source of supply into the building industry through Government action. 
That is true of almost every vote in the Budget. Most of that money goes into the private sector. So I cannot understand what they are saying when they talk about cutting back on Government spending and putting that money into the private sector. It is already going there. Having cut back on Government spending they contradict their own proposal that more should be spent on private enterprise. What they are really saying is that industries ought to be propped up by subsidy. The honourable member for Riverina has said that more money ought to be paid to the rural industries to keep them viable. Let us look at the rural industries. Apart from the beef industry, I suppose that there is not a rural industry that is in a bad position. Wool growers have a stabilisation scheme; they are all guaranteed a price. Wheat growers are guaranteed a price, as are dried vine fruit growers and soft fruit growers. As I said, apart from the beef industry, the rural industries are guaranteed an income- something that they did not have until this Government came to office. ' It was a Labor government that introduced the wheat stabilisation scheme. It was a Labor government- not the Liberals or the National Country Party- that introduced the Australian Wool Corporation. The Liberal and Country parties left the people whom they purport to represent stewing in their own juice. We will not listen day in and day out to what is happening in the rural industries. The Opposition may be able to organise very effectively in that area but they organise on the basis of untruths. The truth is known. If one speaks honestly to a farmer- I speak to many of them- he will say that farmers have never been as well off as they are under the Labor Government. 

 Opposition members interjecting. 

The derision that statement that arises from the other side of the House is indicative of the mentality of those who sit opposite. Let us turn to the alternatives. Everybody seems to be mesmerised by the deficit. Everybody is talking about the deficit which is roughly $2,400m. 
-I do not think that there is much value in taking it to the nearest cent but if the honourable member wants me to do that I will have a private meeting with him later on. Everybody is mesmerised by the deficit. What is new about deficit budgeting? What is strange about it? There would be hardly a household in Australia whose domestic economy is not in deficit. What is the difference between a household managing its affairs and a country managing its affairs? It is only a difference of degree. Last night the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  put forward all sorts of proposals. I think that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  analysed them very well today. I do not ask honourable members to accept my word for what I am about to reveal; these happen to be Treasury figures. If anybody thinks that the Treasury does not know its business he does not know the Treasury. The following additional expenditure would be incurred by this country if the alternative Budget were adopted: The personal income tax reduction would cost another $500m; the introduction of a 40 per cent investment allowance, $300m; the suspension of the beef export levy, $20m; the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty, $30m; it would cost $900m to implement the indexation proposal contained in the Mathews report; the elimination of indirect taxes would cost $600m; and the elimination of the coal export levy $120m. They are all things that the Leader of the Opposition said he would do. He went a step further and announced what savings he would make. He proposed zero Public Service growth, whatever that fine expression means. 
-Of course, it is negative growth, as my colleague from Melbourne reminds me, but the Opposition pretties it up by calling it zero Public Service growth. I suppose that there is a vote or two in that. What is involved there is $75m. The following savings will be effected: Disposal of the pipeline proposals, $200m; the withdrawal of funds from the Australian Industry Development Corporation, $75m; reduction in new housing lending, $20m; cut in the Treasurer's Advance- he is guilty so they Will cut off his pocket money- $75m; abandonment of uranium exploration- I do not know who is going to explore for uranium but the Leader of the Opposition said that he would abandon it- a saving of $4m; suspension of growth centres- every thinking person in this country would agree with the establishment of growth centres- a maximum of $10Om; sale of the Pharmaceutical Corporation- a very profitable enterprise- $8. 7m; National Capital Development Commission wind-back, nil; abolition of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, $1.8m; abolition of the Overseas Trading Corporation, nil; and elimination of the 2.5 per cent cut in company tax, $120m. If the Budget of the Leader of the Opposition were introduced the total extra cost would be $2,470m and the great savings would amount to $679.5m. The Opposition's deficit result above the Government's strategy would amount to $ 1,790.5m but the total deficit in the Opposition's budget would be $4,590.5. Opposition members talk a lot about the deficit. They are worried about it. They say that it should not occur. Yet the deficit in their alternative budget brought into this House last night by the Leader of the Opposition would be $4,5 90m. If somebody in this House can explain to me- I would be eager to know- how he can justify that, I would be delighted to sit here and listen to him, even though I may be bored to the back teeth by the content of his speech, because there is no rationale in it and there is no sense in it. I think it is probably very indicative of the muddled thinking of the Opposition. 
-Can the Prime Minister say whether an appointment has yet been made to the Senate vacancy arising from the death of  Senator Milliner?  Has he any information about the circumstances in which this appointment has been delayed? 
-In the rhetoric to which we have just been subjected by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  I suppose it is just as well that he did not spoil his speech by introducing facts into it. On one occasion I heard him say that the unemployment figure in Australia was too high, and almost in the same breath he said the figure was inflated, overstated. I am still trying to sort out what he really meant. I do not think he is really sure himself. He and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  both made exactly the same mistake. They started to compare the unemployment situation in Australia today with the unemployment situation as it was in 1971-72. The fundamental error that they made was that they overlooked the fact that you cannot compare things that are alike. The only thread running through their speeches was the word 'unemployment'! 
In the late 1960s and early 1970s the world suffered a great commodity shortage, and everybody who cared to make anything was assured of a market to sell it. Therefore to find unemployment at all in that period was sinful because, as I said, there was a worldwide commodity shortage. In the world today, because of the cessation o  f  the Vietnam war and the turning of resources to peaceful manufacture rather than manufacture for war, there is a glut of commodities, so manufacturers are laying off people. To illustrate this point a little bit further and show just how callous was the action of those who sit opposite, in the 1971 Budget it is acknowledged by everybody that the previous Government set out deliberately to create unemployment when there was no need for it. Let me read a minute dated 15 September 1971 to the Minister for Labour and National Service, as he was then known, from his Department In part it said: 
We argued, therefore, in our minute that unless the Budget provided a sizeable stimulus to the economy it would lead to an increase in unemployment. ... As you are  aware, the Government in fact introduced a significantly deflationary Budget Our original assessment of its impact is unchanged. We believe it will lead to an appreciable increase in unemployment. If the Government wanted to make certain there was no significant increase in unemployment it should have adopted an expansionary or at least a neutral Budget. It has not done so and therefore must accept responsibility for the increase in unemployment. If the Government's policy of trading a little less inflation for a little more unemployment does succeed it will be ipso facto at the cost of some increase in unemployment. It will be specious - 
That is a deliberate indictment of a government that set out to create unemployment in a time when there was no need to do it. It was warned by the Department of Labour and National Service not to do it. We saw the end result of that in the 1972 Budget. The previous Government knew that it was losing office so it feverishly set about drawing up a Budget that introduced inflation into Australia at a higher rate than it ever was and left the Australian Labor Party with the job of trying to dampen it down. 
-The honourable member interjects and says: 'Some job you have done'. May I be permitted to hypothesise on that a hide bit. I would lie awake of a night time and almost have nightmares thinking about the state of the nation if those who sit opposite were in charge of it. It would be so bad that it would be intolerable, because it would not be their country. The country would belong to their masters, the multinational corporations. It stands out like Aunt Sarah's sore thumb. There is a deliberate campaign by those who sit opposite to denigrate this great country of ours. 
-They are unAustralian to the extreme. As I have been wanting to call them in this House before, they are traitors in the true sense of the word. Honourable members who sit opposite and their cohorts in the various conservative State parliaments around this country set out to give the impression that everything is wrong. There is not a country with which we compare ourselves which is not suffering the same ills as we are. When the honourable member for Darling Downs denies that he is deluding himself. If he thinks Australia can stand in isolation in that sort of situation then, as I say, he deludes himself. It is pretty clear why honourable members opposite engage in their denigration. I believe their lust for power is exceeded only by the desire to rape the country of those who control them, the multinational corporations. The only group of people that stands in the way of the rape of this nation by the multinational corporations is the Australian Labor Party. So it is clear that a contract has been let to get the Australian Labor Party at all costs. I am quite sure that the people of Australia are not going to be fooled by that sort of stupid argument. 
A number of measures have been incorporated in the present Budget to combat unemployment. No Labor Government is proud of the fact that there is unemployment. However, as I said, it would be double the level at which it stands now if those who sit opposite were in government. 
-Actually there was nothing in his speech to interject on. The Government has cut down on immigration so as not to add to the level of the unemployed, and for doing that we are criticised. We are criticised for cutting back on the migration quota for a year. Clearly if there are people unemployed and there are not enough jobs for the people who are already here we must add to the problem if we then bring into the country more people who are going to seek jobs without any commensurate investment by those in the business sector- and they seem to be very loath to do that. If they had been workmen and withdrawn their labour it would have been called a strike. Because they are capitalists who have withdrawn their dollars it is just a matter of their exercising their right to do what they want to do with their money. Let the workman try to do what he wants to do with his labour. 
Something that is probably very near and dear to the heart of the honourable member for Darling Downs is the National Employment and Training scheme. One of the aims of this scheme recently introduced by the Government is to provide training in certain circumstances for people suffering from employment difficulties. In other words, as technology has changed and more technicians than labourers have been needed past governments have just left labourers lie, so they have no skills which they can use in another area. This Government has done something about resolving that. It has undertaken to train people who never had the opportunity when they were younger because we had in this country Liberal-Country Party governments who did not spend much money on education to train people. They trained them up to the standard of being a labourer. Anything they did above that they did at their own expense. Past governments left a surplus of people who had no skills. This Government is setting out to rectify that. The national apprenticeship training scheme was another excellent scheme introduced by the Labor Government. It was designed to encourage young people to enter into trades and to train themselves and for industry to go to the trouble of training apprentices. This is something that industry never did while the previous Government was in power because it was always cheaper to import skilled tradesmen than to train apprentices in Australia. That has always been the attitude of the Opposition. 
I think I heard the honourable member for Corangamite say that we were paying too much to each individual receiving unemployment benefits. The amount is too high, he said. I was speaking to a very old man the other day who lived through the last Depression. We were talking about people unemployed and the current recession and the great Depression. He said: 'There is a great difference, me boy'. He is a very old man; he calls me 'me boy'. He said: 'There is a big difference. Nobody in Australia today is hungry. There are no soup kitchens and nobody is on the bread line, so the community collectively is wealthy enough to look after those who are unfortunate enough not to find employment. ' The honourable member would go back to the 19th Century and leave those people to starve, pay them no money at all and set up soup kitchens. That is his whole attitude and philosophy, and it is reflected by the Party which he purports to represent in this House. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
1 ) The second 3-year program for the improvement and maintenance of the Stuart and Barkly highways, Northern Territory (8th report 1975); 
Naval transmitter building and power centre at Humpty-Doo Northern Territory (9th report 1975); and 
Sadadeen high school, Alice  Aprings,  Northern Territory (10th report 1975). 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I should like to commend the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  who has just addressed the Committee. It is seldom that we agree with one another. But he agrees with my point of view and I think that is some commendation of his own level of intelligence. He made a comment about the media, which in Australia seems to have the arrogance to determine all sorts of attitudes so far as parliamentarians are concerned. There are no representatives of the media here tonight, except for one lass who has been busily scribbling all night. I draw to the attention of the Committee that the upper gallery behind your chair  Mr Chairman  and the one to your left are supposed to be occupied by the Press. Tomorrow we will see screamer headlines and yet no Press representatives are present here tonight. 
The subject before the Committee tonight is the estimates for the Parliament. The honourable member for Balaclava spoke, as did the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  before him, about what happens when an honourable member reaches this chamber, but nobody spoke about what happens for an honourable member to be elected to this place. We all profess to live in a democracy in Australia. Everybody knows that we have parliamentary democracy in Australia. We also know that on 2 December 1972- not yet 3 years ago, and yet the Constitution states that the House of Representatives should be elected for 3 years- the people of Australia chose a majority of members of the Australian Labor Party to govern in this House. We know what has happened since then. We know that in another place, because of the system of election for that place, there will always be a delicate balance of power. We know that in that place a majority of senators decided that in May 1974, before the 3 years required by the Constitution were up, they would take the people of Australia to another election. The people of Australia responded correctly and they returned a Labor government. Since then this other chamber, the other House of the parliamentary system in Australia as defined in the Constitution, has set about taking some other decisions. The first thing that happened was that- I will not call him the honourable senator- ex-senator Gair from Queensland - 
-Accepted the position of Ambassador to China, as the new senator says. 
-The new senator said 'China'. We had better buy him a map of the world before he goes any further. Be that as it may, from that time on a number of people do not now sit in the Senate who were there in 9 May 1974. One of those, through no fault of his own was the late  Senator Milliner. 
-A very fine gentleman from Queensland. In Australia we do not have only this Parliament. This is not the be all or the end all of parliaments in Australia. We also have another six. Let us have a look at the democratic process by which the members of these Parliaments are elected in their totality. For instance, in Victoria we have a lower and an upper House, as we have in five of the 6 States. In Victoria, because there are no constitutional requirements for boundaries of electorates, the members of the Parliament set their own boundaries. What is the result? We find that in the Port Phillip electorate there are twice as many electors as there are in Victorian country areas. So, a gerrymander exists in Victoria. 
The position in New South Wales is no better. Electors do not have the right to vote for those who are elected to the New South Wales Upper House. Persons are appointed to the Upper House by the 2 Houses of the New South Wales Parliament sitting together. I understand that members of the New South Wales Legislative Council serve a term of office of 12 years. 
-The point to which I was coming is that because a democratic system does not operate in New South Wales we now have sitting in the other chamber of this Parliament a person who does not reflect the result of the voting pattern expressed by the people of New South Wales at the last Senate election. 
Surely that situation affects this Parliament. Sitting in the other chamber is a person whose presence directly reflects a rigged vote in New South Wales. Because the membership of the Upper House in New South Wales is not elected by the people, but is appointed, we have sitting in the other chamber here a person who may be described politically as a wether or a neuter. That will have an effect on what happens in this Parliament. 
Recently  Senator Milliner  died. We all regret his passing; there is no doubt about that. I have heard people in this chamber and in the other chamber stand up and say so. What happened in Queensland with respect to filling the vacancy his death caused? Because with 19 per cent of the vote some peanut from Kingaroy became the Premier of that State - 
-Bjelke-Petersen. I believe I have pronounced his name correctly. That person sets about to prostitute Queensland representation in this Parliament. Instead of returning to this Parliament somebody of the same political party as the late  Senator Milliner  for whom the people of Queensland voted in 1974- and I remind the Committee that  Senator Milliner  was a most respected and revered member of the Australian Labor Party- that Premier has returned to the Senate a person who is not a member of the Labor Party. He did so simply because that person said that, if ever he came to the national Parliament, he would vote to bring down the Labor Government. Let us have a look at that proposition. He said that he would bring down the Labor Party. Those who sit on the opposite side of this chamber talk about law and order. They talk about 'Laura Norda', the girl with whom they are having a love affair. Those people who sit on the Opposition side of this Parliament claim that they are seeking law and order. But their actions mean that the people of this country, who want decent government and who are being frustrated by gerrymanders in every State and by State parliamentarians determining who will sit in the other chamber of this Parliament, are being brought to a position where violence on this question will occur in the not far distant future. I am not inciting violence. I am the most 'unviolent' person, if that is the correct word, that anyone would ever meet in his life. 
-Yes. I am a pacifist. I am an absolute pacifist, and those who know me will swear to that. 
-Yes. I am a gentle person, as the honourable member for Wakefield reminds me. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of any suggestion that funds for Medibank or the Regional Employment Development scheme should be withheld? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Extension to the Podium of Canberra Hospital- Stage I Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-The speeches that we have heard on this Bill which relates to Victoria- incidentally, they have all been made by members of the National Country Party- have centred around the fact that there ought to be a difference in the representation of people who live in city areas compared with that of those who live in country areas. In fact, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  spoke at some length about the closure of polling booths. In his remarks he singled out the electorate of Henty and said that he did not find that electorate on his list in regard to the closing of polling booths. To give the honourable member some indication of how the population in areas such as the electorate I represent is growing, I state that rather than close polling booths, three more are being opened for the next election. If the population is drifting away from the country areas but the honourable member still wants to maintain the traditional electoral boundaries, clearly he is looking to come to this place to represent open space, paddocks, sheep, haystacksanything you can name except people. The clear purpose of coming to this Parliament is to cast a conscious vote, because ostensibly, each of us represents as near as is practicable the same number of people in the community. The servicing of the electorate is a different question altogether. 
At no time during the debate on the measures before the Committee has one heard the members of the Liberal Party of Australia raise a voice on them, nor did they do so when the measures were last before this place and in the other place. That gives great credence to the belief that is held by members of the community that it is the National Country Party that is again twisting the taU of the Liberal Party and bringing about something that the Liberal Party does not really want but which is of great benefit to the National Country Party. The only way in which it can maintain representation in Australia, not only in the national scene but also in the State scene, is if its member's have very small electorates and those who opposed them represent very large, populous electorates. Of course, this is nothing new for the conservatives. They never liked elections, going back some centuries. Ever since it has been thrust upon them by the working class people that they should have elections, they have not liked that very much. But they found themselves in the position that they could not avoid elections. Ever since that time they have been devising their own little ways of holding the elections to conform with convention but making sure that the results of the elections did not tip them out of office. This is aU they have ever done. The philosophy of the conservatives is that to hold elections in this country only to determine how long they Will rule. They do not hold elections to decide who will rule; they hold elections to decide how long the conservatives will rule. We had news for them in 1972 and 1 974. Whenever the next election is held, we will have news for them again, and it will not be all good news. If this redistribution were to be agreed to- it is clear that this House agrees with it- there are sufficient sensible - 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the intended use of land in Camp Road, Broadmeadows, previously occupied by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, the same as detailed in answer to question No. 5564 (Hansard, 31 May 1972, page 3368). 
If the use is to be stated, then can he say when construction and development will commence. 
3 ) If the use is to be different, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for 
Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the name of each ship used to export 301 749 tons of wheat for the Victorian Oatgrowers Pool and Marketing Co. Ltd for the year ended 30 September 1971. 
In respect of each ship (a) who was the charterer, 
b ) how much was the chartering commission and 
to whom was the commission paid. 
How much was earned in despatch money on each individual ship, and to whom was it paid 
Was demurrage paid out on loading any of these ships. 
I must comment on the last point made and the point most made by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  about the Regional Employment Development scheme. I think it ought to be said that the honourable member is a member of the Liberal Party and comes from Victoria. The Government has been berated by the Opposition on more than one occasion about its spending and has been asked to cut back on government spending. In fact, it has been demanded that we cut back on government spending. It has been said that this is the way out of the woods. Now- I do not necessarily agree that I am in favour of it- because there has been a cutback in government spending, and RED schemes are government spending, the Opposition is now saying: 'This is not the way out of the wood at all. You do not cut back on government spending but in fact you increase it'. 
The argument gets a little bit more circular than that even. The closing remarks of the honourable member were that the Opposition would leave administration of this scheme up to the local bodies who, the Opposition believes, would be best equipped to deal with it because they are local. I remind the honourable member again that he is a member of the Liberal Party, that he is a Victorian, that he lives in a State that has a Liberal government, that the Premier of that State,  Mr Hamer,  a Liberal, has taken the trouble of going to the High Court for a writ to restrain the Australian Government from dealing with local government in matters like this. It is curious that members of the Opposition should stand up, as they have done on more than one occasion on this matter, and criticise the Australian Labor Government for not doing this and not doing that when in fact their friends in 3 States of Australia have taken out writs in the High Court to restrain us from doing it. I understand that the basis of the writ is that the Australian Government has no authority to deal with local government. Yet the closing words of the honourable member for Corangamite were that the Liberal Party in government would deal with local government. I wish that members of the Opposition would be a bit sincere about it and make up their minds as to where they stand on it. 
I take the point about a cut-back in spending. I mention one area in which I have a criticism of my own Government. Perhaps the Minister- I am sure he can- will properly explain to me in closing this debate why such a thing has happened. By unanimous agreement both Houses of this Parliament have passed a Bill to set up a trade union training authority to set about training trade unionists and to build a college, which the Australian Council for Union Training has appropriately decided ought to be named the Clyde Cameron College, at Wodonga. That Council submitted a budget to the Australian Government for something more than the amount which it has received in the Budget. In other words, after careful assessment of the needs of each of the States and the need to spend $1.7m or preferably $2.2m in this financial year on the construction of a college at Wodonga, the Council was told that the Budget would have to be pruned back. The Council did that. It did it in the knowledge that the Government in these times of economic difficulties must cut back onsome of its spending. 
I express my disappointment rather than my criticism of the Government- 'disappointment' would have been a better word to have used initiallythat this item in particular was singled out for cutting back. It can easily be said that because I have a great interest in this matter all other things can go to pot so long as this issue continues. I do not say that at all. I simply make the point that a substantial cut was made in the funds available for the Australian Council for Union Training and express some regret about it. 
Another point I wish to make in the short time available to me relates to the Commonwealth Employment Service. The service is a very integral part of the Minister's Department. It finds work for people and finds people to fill vacancies. I think we are all aware of that. Having observed it for a long time I have come to the view that it has been reduced in status over the years to nothing more or less than a labour exchange. That fills me with some regret. I think that the Labor Government- I put in a plug for the Government- has done something about improving the status of that aspect of the service. But the function surely of every government ought to be- there has been no indication of this from honourable members who sit opposite and who for 23 years did govern- to set out a manpower policy for the nation. The Labor Government is taking great steps in that area. Surely the people who seek out job vacancies and then seek out people to fill those vacancies must play an integral part. So long as the Commonwealth Employment Service is at the level of nothing more or less than a labour exchange, dealing only with unskilled or semi-skilled people and not entering into the field of people who are technically trained, semi-professionally or professionally trained, surely to goodness a government cannot get an overall picture of its manpower requirements or where it is going. 
It may be true that statistics can be collected from private agencies. A number of private agencies operate in this area. They operate under the private enterprise system. They do not give their services for nothing; they make a charge. They seem to be very profitable enterprises from what I have seen of them. That section of employee placement is rather a rewarding area. For years, because that area is profitable, it has been left for private enterprise and the unprofitable or least profitable section of the business was grudgingly taken over by the previous government. It has been left at that; something that has been grudgingly taken over and something that has been run- and I repeat- at a level of nothing more than a labour exchange. 
I dare say that members of this Parliament have intimate knowledge or have availed themselves in one way or another of these placement services. But deliberately to downgrade a government service, as I believe the previous Government did, in my mind is very sinful and serves no good purpose to the community. If the Government entered the area of employment for professional people the overall manpower picture would become better. A sense of job satisfaction and career opportunities in all facets of job placement would be given for those people who work in the Department now. I have the highest regard for them. In the block in my electorate in which I have my office is the Glenroy Commonwealth Employment Service. I could not speak in too high regard for the officers and the staff of that branch of the CES. The same applies for the other 2 branches of the service that are situated in my electorate. 
Contrary to popular belief I do not have a pocket handkerchief electorate. Three CES offices are servicing it. Each of those offices is equal in the way its staff members deal with the problems that come before them and the way they assist people to find better jobs. But surely integrated into that must be other aspects. I am very pleased to notice the increase in amounts made available for apprenticeship training. Things of this sort are part and parcel of that whole service. It has to go further than just finding an unskilled job for an unskilled worker. If the person is unskilled but has a capacity the service must do something about taking him and putting him through a scheme that will provide him with the necessary skills and ability to perform a task that is probably more financially rewarding than the one he has at the moment. By doing this we overcome a lot of other problems in our community. A lot of problems that are now dealt with by people from the Department of Social Security initially stem from the capacity and ability of people to earn money because of their lack of training 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware that wage indexation has been described as a wage freeze? Is this description accurate or is wage indexation in the interests of Australian employees? Is he satisfied that opinion leaders now support wage indexation as a principle? Finally, does the Government see wage indexation as a means of preventing union bashing? 
-Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to a report of premature disclosure of information from his recent Budget? Is there any truth in the report? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works 
Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed works: 
Multi-storey Ward Block at Repatriation General Hospital, Greenslopes, Queensland. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-The House has just been treated to the sort of scatological contribution for which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is quite infamous. The honourable member's favourite words are 'corruption', 'fraud', 'dishonest' and 'lies'. He uses these words by way of sneer and innuendo. None of them is based on fact. The honourable member supplies no evidence or substance. He just stands up and makes bald statements. He seeks to denigrate people's characters without any evidence at all. This is the sort of thing for which the honourable member has become infamous in this House. It seems that Opposition members support him because they voted in favour of his continuing with his diatribe. It is unfortunate that the level of debate in this House should have sunk to such a degree. Also it is unfortunate that the honourable member did not give us the benefit of his knowledge of the Travel Agents Bill instead of trying to take away the good character of some very honourable people in this country. 
The purpose of the Bill is to ensure that travel agents are to a very large extent controlled. As I understand it, the ability to legislate for such control has always rested with the States. In most instances the States have neglected to do very much about it, and again it has been left to the Australian Labor Party Government to come to the rescue of this country. One must ask: Why is it necessary to register travel agents? Why is it necessary to set up a board to exercise some sort of control over these people? It is pretty obvious that the Bill is not aimed at removing dishonest travel agents. Of course, they will be taken care of by the provisions of the Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to ensure that the very many honest and reputable travel agents in the community are supported by legislation in their endeavours and are protected from the fly-by-nights, the cutthroats and those who are liable to act in a dishonest way. 
We have all heard the stories and we know that they are true. People who have been stranded in Australia have come to my office to tell me about it. Some were people who came from Britain. They had been encouraged to come here and had made their bookings through travel agents in that country. Their passages had been booked with rather dubious airlines and these people were stranded because the airlines that carried them here could not honour their obligations to take them home. I am not sure of the position in relation to the registering of travel agents in Britain. We have a responsibility to our citizens. More and more Australians are taking advantage of the extra leisure time available to them to travel overseas to broaden their knowledge, to experience conditions in other countries in order to come back better informed. In order to do so they need to use the services of travel agents. As I understand the statistics, most travellers are making their first voyage overseas. There are very few people in Australia who are able to make the necessary arrangements to travel overseas by air or by sea, to arrange accommodation and transport in those countries, and to do the myriad of things that we take for granted in our own nation because we are familiar with them- the myriad of things that must be done in order to move from one place to another. Therefore they rely on travel agents. 
What is required to set oneself up as a travel agent? Only the ability to pay the rental for a shop, to have the front window of the shop painted out. To me and to the Government that seems to be a rather unsatisfactory way of going about it. The travel agent places himself in a position whereby people accept him at face value. A friend of mine was going to Malta not so very long ago. He booked his passage through a travel agency in Melbourne and the agency did not do the right thing by him. Fortunately my friend is a very resourceful person and he was able to resolve the situation. But if he had not been so resourceful he could well have forfeited the money he had paid to the travel agent to take him to Malta and bring him back again. The honourable member for Scullin,  Dr Jenkins,  told me at lunch time today about a travel agent in Australia- I have been told this by other people although I have not experienced it myself- making double bookings of accommodation and double bookings of transport. Australian citizens travelling abroad whose passage and accommodation have been booked by travel agents in Australia sometimes find themselves unable to get on the aircraft because the seats have been taken by somebody who made a prior booking. Some have been unable to sleep in hotel rooms because those rooms have been occupied by other people. They have been left in very dire and difficult circumstances in countries as far as 12 000 miles away. Quite often the travellers were left in a country where the language was not familiar to or spoken by the traveller, in a country where the habits and practices were unfamiliar to the traveller. So some very heart rending moments are caused to some people by travel agents not behaving in a responsible manner. I just want to make it clear time and time and over and over again-  (Quorum formed).  I am very pleased that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was so entranced by the pearls of wisdom dropping from my lips that he thought I should have an audience to hear me. 
-If I am not interrupted,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I shall continue. The need for travel agents to be registered and for there to be a board to enforce that registration is obvious, I think, to all members of the House. Of course the reputable travel agents will not care; it is the disreputable agents who will worry. The reputable agents will expect to be made accountable for the giving of misinformation or any other malpractice that causes a traveller to suffer. As I understand the speech of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on 16 October, apart from minor amendments that will be moved by the Government and some inconsequential amendments that will be moved by the Opposition, the Bill in fact has no opposition in this House. The Opposition is quite happy to allow this measure to go through in its amended form. The Opposition is aware of the proposed amendments. According to the honourable member for McPherson on 16 October, that is the case. Such being the case I think there is little need for me to pursue the matter any further or to convince the House of the wisdom of this measure. I think it is well known to it. In order to conserve time I leave the matter there and commend the measure to the House. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  having been misrepresented I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1 (Short title). 
-The matter that we are discussing today, namely, the action of the Government in breaking its election promises to support wage indexation, is essentially a discussion about credibility. In its very short life the credibility of this Government is at breaking point in the Australian community. Already in its short 3 months of office it has broken almost every election promise it made. The unions, in the whole question of wage indexation, have shown their credibility and sincerity right from the outset. It will be remembered by the Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  that the increase in the consumer price index in the September quarter of 1975 was 0.8 per cent. Although not in the best interests of the unions and their members, the unions forewent any claim for wage rises at that time because they had accepted the principle that they would be compensated for increases in costs in the community. 
Apart from the Treasury- inspired gobbledegook that was used in this House by the previous 2 speakers from the Government side- I am sure that neither of them understood one word they said; they were reading from script which apparently had been prepared for them by the Treasury- what is understood by the community and by the trade union movement is that wage indexation is an increase in purchasing power for that lost through rises in prices. Great play was made of words used by the previous Treasurer about indirect taxes and that the Government was standing firm to its pre-election promises. Prior to the election the Government took full page advertisements in the daily Press. The heading on one stated: 
Trade unionists- Liberals will continue to support wage indexation along with introduction of indexation of personal income tax. This is the full package sought by the ACTU. 
If the Government were serious about its argument that indirect taxes should not be added in, why did it argue for some mysterious reduction of 50 per cent? There does not seem to be any science in that. Why did it not, in fact, do as the employers did and seek a 4.8 per cent increase? But it did not. It simply cut the figure in half. Obviously the Government was out to prevent any increase in wages to recompense working people for loss of purchasing power caused by increased prices. In the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 3 February 1976 when this matter was being heard- not so very long ago- the Government advocate,  Mr Marks,  in part said: 
It is fundamental that action taken to raise taxes as part of the Government's considered economic POliCY should not, through the wage fixing system, be translated into wage push. 
His Honour, Robinson J. asked: 
Is it not true that the farmer Government changed its attitude on this question of the use of government charges and indirect taxes in relation to indexation? 

 Mr Marks replied: 
My understanding of the matter is that in the hearing on October 28 it was made clear in one of the hearings prior to the Christmas vacation that in the hearing subsequent to January the Australian Government, as it then was, would not make submissions in relation to discounting cost of living increase movements for indirect taxes and government charges. 
That is what the previous Government said through its advocate. Yet the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  both stood in this House and quoted words used in the Budget Speech and tried to pin their case on them. Their evidence was so nebulous that of course their whole case collapsed. I think the previous Minister for Labor, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  made this point which is well worth elaborating: Wage indexation is not new in Australia. It existed prior to 1953. It was then known as quarterly cost of living adjustments. They were adjustments that were automatically granted to workers as prices rose. The right honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies- R. G. Menzies as he then was- Prime Minister of Australia, claimed when referring to the dismantling of this way of recompensing workers that this action would in turn reduce prices. We all know what has happened in the spiral of prices since that time. I think everybody in this country would be well aware that there is not an employer who is a benevolent society or who sees himself as a benevolent society for workers. He will employ people only while he can make a quid out of them. There can be no doubt about that axiomatic statement. To suggest otherwise, to suggest that by reducing the purchasing power of workers- that is all that one does by reducing any increase in their wages- is to create more employment is an argument that I find very hard to follow. It seems to me that so long as there is purchasing power in the community, so long as people are purchasing goods, there will be people who will be prepared to make them because manufacturers do not make things and suppliers of services do not provide services unless they can find somebody who can afford to buy them. To suggest otherwise of course would be just so much poppycock and would put the lie to the whole argument. 
Speaking of credibility, it is a matter of great regret that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations seems to have lost his credibility in his negotiations with the trade union movement. On the question of wage indexation, it is my understanding that on the day prior to the matter being heard in the court he was asked by the State Ministers whether the Australian Government supported the granting of a 6.4 per cent increase and he said that it did. He was then reminded that he should go and consult on that. He did, and when he came back he said that the Government did not support that at all. He had been speaking to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the proposal then was for a 3.2 per cent increase. In his negotiations with the trade union movement, the Minister comes forward, puts propositions and enters into negotiations but when it comes to the crunch, when a decision has to be made, the honourable gentleman regretfully has to leave the negotiations and go to speak with the Prime Minister to see whether he can give a decision. 
In those circumstances there is no trust of the Government by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. It has no reason to trust the Government. It has no trust of the Government's Minister and it has no reason to trust him. The Australian people have little trust of this Government after the short time it has been in office and, again, very little to reason to trust it. As time goes on this will become more manifest. If there is to be a cessation of industrial lawlessness, as those on the opposite side of this chamber call it, surely there must be some sort of rule, some sort of order. That rule and order was set up by the previous Government. Wage indexation was introduced. It was accepted by the trade union movement in an endeavour to bring about some stability in the area. It is now being rejected by this Government which does not really argue for half of the increase. That is not what it is arguing for at all. It is arguing for the dismantling of the structure. This is the thin edge of the wedge. This is the sort of thing towards which the Government is heading. But that will resolve nothing. All it will do is move the trade unions into an area where they will forget about going to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to seek any rise. They will enter into collective bargaining with employers; they will use muscle where muscle can be used on employers and they will receive substantial increases in wages- increases far in excess of those being granted through the Commission. That in turn will bring about an inequity in the whole society where unions which are dealing with companies that perhaps are not so profitable, or unions that perhaps do not have so much muscle will find that their members will start to lag. The trade union movement, as expressed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and its august  President,  has made it clear that that is a situation it really does not want to see. It would prefer to see a regular examination of the purchasing power of the dollar and when it is found to be wanting for there to be a reimbursement for it. 
The argument was put by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that the Labor Party placed wage increases ahead of price rises. I do not know whose tail is chasing whose in this argument. It seems to me that if a court is going to consider increases in prices over a previous 3 months and then give an increase in wages to compensate for the increases, it seems a very fallacious argument for those who sell things to come forward and say: ' Well, we must put up our prices to cover our increased wage bill'. It seems to me that if the honourable gentlemen opposite really want to get down to solving this problem of spiralling wages and inflation they would do far better to have a look at the prices area than at the wages area, as happened in the September quarter when there was no price increase so there was no wage increase either. If they were to contain that area, they would find that the trade unions in Australia would play their role. The trade unionists are not avaricious people, all they want is a fair share of the things that they produce. They did not get it in the past, they are not getting it now and there is little doubt that they will get in the future. They will get a darn sight less if the Government is allowed to dismantle the whole wage indexation policy and revert to taking unilateral decisions in the Cabinet room as to what the wages of workers in this country should be, relying only on the advice of the Treasury, in its ivory tower, which has no contact with the average Australian person, the average Australian family. 
-The document which we are discussing is the speech made by his  Excellency  the Governor-General on the occasion of the opening of the first session of the Thirtieth Parliament. That being the case, it seems appropriate to me that the events which led up to the formation of the Thirtieth Parliament be recapitulated and that the history be related again. They are appropriate to the document which we are discussing because they bring into question the whole action that has been taken by this Government and the actions that it intends to take. The Thirtieth Parliament meets after an election caused by the dismissal of the Whitlam Government and the dissolution of the Twenty-Ninth Parliament by the arbitrary action of the Governor-General. The Twenty-Eighth and Twenty-Ninth parliaments were not allowed to complete the 3 years of office to which they could have reasonably looked forward. Those 3 years of Australian Labor Party Government were turbulent. 
During that time the conservative and reactionary forces in our community joined together in a way rarely experienced in Australia 's history. These forces used every possible device available to them to topple in a most unethical way the most progressive government Australia has had. Conservative Premiers in 4 States deliberately set out on a course of frustration of the expressed will of the Australian people, twice expressed in 18 months. Aided and abetted by the ultra-conservative Press, the ownership of which is exclusive to a few Australian familiesthe same families that own and control the visual and audio media outlets- the conservatives finally had their way. The Australian people should never be allowed to forget the shabby intrigues, the misuse of power and the blatant denigration of honesty, integrity and morality which were used by power hungry men to achieve their tawdry ends. There can be little joy in the hearts of decent men sitting opposite when they reflect on the methods used to gain office. Indeed fear will strike the breasts of many who know that at the next election the voters will wreak their revenge for the broken promises and blatant corruption of the Fraser Ministry. 
It bears repeating that Liberal Premier Lewis of New South Wales flouted the wish of the electors of New South Wales to be represented by 5 ALP senators. He arbitrarily reduced that representation to 4 ALP senators when filling the vacancy caused by the elevation of then  Senator Murphy  to the High Court. Just 3 months ago the people of New South Wales reaffirmed their desire to be represented by 5 ALP senators. Incidentally, a bloodless coup took place there quite recently. During an extended lunch break the Liberal ruthlessness went to work and replaced  Mr Lewis.  He was expendable. The intellectual and political pigmy from Queensland, Premier Bjelke-Petersen, with the support of 20 per cent of the Queensland people - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Burke rephrase that part of his speech. I do not think it is beneficial to this Parliament or to the political scene for the member to use a phrase such as that. 
-A man with a small intellect and small political ability, Premier Bjelke-Petersen, with the support of 20 per cent of" the Queensland people - 

 Mr Clyde Cameron- My point of order is this: Why are you constantly preventing our people interjecting when the Country Party is given an open go? 
-I respect your sensitivities in this area,  Mr Deputy Speaker. Senator 
Milliner, who died, was replaced by a nonentity, a person dedicated to destroying the Labor Government, a person who was described as a Labor man by those who wished to salve their consciences. However, corruption and immorality became apparent, and challenges were made to the High Court on his right to sit in the Senate. As a result he spent little time there. When the poor fellow did, he found he had no friends. Even those he was anxious to please were nauseated at the circumstances of his appointment and despised him. 
This was not the end of the farce. Conspiracy and backroom methods had to be used by the conservatives because all else had failed. The Governor-General conferred with the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. This was fairly reported. He played his part well and kept a tight lip about the plot to overthrow in mid term a properly elected government. One member of a panel of seven respected justices of the High Court was consulted. One wonders whether it was coincidence that he was an AttorneyGeneral in a previous Liberal government. To compound the felony, the Opposition spokesman on legal matters, who has been rewarded by being made Attorney-General, was consulted. The whole ploy became evident when the Leader of the minority group was crowned Prime Minister by his mentor. 
Those members who care about the need for government of the people, by the people, for the people should heed the sinister implications of these facts. They should be afraid that the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  was never offered alternatives, that the advice of the High Court Full Bench was never sought, that the advice of the Attorney-General and/or the SolicitorGeneral was never sought, that the Presiding Officer of this House was ignored when a majority of the members in Parliament assembled directed a course of action. History will show quite clearly that an assault was made on the people's Parliament on 11 November 1975. Members opposite will gloat and say: 'But we won the election. The people spoke. The reasons for giving them a premature opportunity are of no consequence'. I urge them to consider seriously that attitude and to reflect on a prime creed of a political system that they profess to despise; that is that the ends justify the means. 
The purpose of this debate is to consider a speech made on behalf of the Government yesterday in the Senate chamber, setting out the intentions of this Government during its life in the Thirtieth Parliament, no matter how short that life may be. The theme running through the speech is identifiably one of freedom of the individual; in other words, a return to the law of the jungle where the well organised and the strong will prey upon the defenceless and the weak. In other words, the members opposite will come to this chamber praying for their fellows while those who support them will be very busy in the community preying upon them. 
In that period of uncertainty called an election campaign the present Prime Minister rode his trail bike or his horse, or something else, around the countryside offering all sorts of deals to try to re-establish his honour. When speaking to the community he said he would not interfere with wage indexation, nor would he oppose it, and then he mumbled something about 'except under exceptional circumstances'. He assured the workers he would introduce tax indexation and then mumbled something about 'at the appropriate time'. He would re-introduce the superphosphate bounty, the farmers were told. There were no qualifications on that one. He would reintroduce investment incentives, the industrialists were told. There were no qualifications on that one. There would be no cutback in the essential areas of education, social welfare, health and assistance to local government, he said. He made some qualification there because he used the words 'essential areas'. He also said that there would be no industrial legislation introduced in the first session of Parliament unless the unions were consulted; that the Prices Justification Tribunal would be retained; and that the ownership of a home would be made easier and the interest burden on existing owners would be lessened. He said that he would not retrench public servants but would rely on natural wastage to reduce numbers. And so it went on. The significant feature of all these promises and undertakings is that they were all qualified with the exception of those made to farmers and industrialists. 
Let us now look at the record only 3 months after the Government attaining office. The superphosphate bounty was introduced by the farmer Prime Minister and his Cabinet of farmers, but the small farmers whom I know, the battlers who are struggling, tell me that the bounty is of no value to a farmer who cannot afford to buy superphosphate, and it is a rip-off of public money for those who can. At better than $ 1 1 a tonne it is worth a lot of money to a farmer using 400 or 500 tonnes a year. I understand that all the farmers in the Cabinet use about this amount to fertilise their holdings. Associations that truly represent farmers have expressed the same view as my own. 
Investment allowance to industry sounds good but it is not worth the words to utter it: It is claimed that this will stimulate industry. Industry will only ever manufacture the goods or provide the services which it can sell and for which it can be paid. Retail sales in Australia have not slumped. Savings bank deposits are as high as they ever were and the possession of manufactured goods is also very high. Therefore unless people are encouraged to purchase more goods than they need, or use more services than they require, it is difficult to understand how a community already apparently saturated with goods and services can be persuaded to purchase more goods and services. 
Plant and equipment now owned are operating at something less than 60 per cent capacity. No manufacturer would buy new machinery if it could not be used to its fullest capacity. Furthermore, each new machine devised requires fewer operators to manufacture more goods, thus adding to the surplus work force in existence already. This, coupled with a mad desire to reduce wages and thus reduce purchasing power, can only lead to greater unemployment. The cutbacks in spending announced in the document are either window dressing of no real significance or are of such serious implication to the community that no responsible person would perpetrate them. 
The reduction of the Public Service for example will mean a slower processing of all administrative services for which governments are responsible. Already the National Capital Development Commission has felt the axe. The Commission has been told to reduce its staff by 12 per cent by 30 June. This decision will affect a considerable number of people working for that body. Recruiting of school leavers has stopped. Only today I had a telephone call from one of my constituents, a man who is almost at retiring age, who is able to negotiate his retirement and who is willing to do so provided his son can have a job in the Public Service. This man has been told quite loudly and quite clearly that if he negotiates his own retirement he can go into retirement but the vacancy caused by his retirement cannot be filled by his son. Although the son is unemployed and cannot find employment this Government, according to the document that it has placed before us, apparently intends to do very little about such a situation. The Government has made no move in any other area to compensate for lack of employment in the Australian Government area. What poppycock is talked about stimulating industry to invest. Invest in what? Invest in new factories, new equipment and new machinery? And what is industry to do with the goods that are then manufactured by the machines in the factories? To whom will it sell these goods? Will it sell them to a community which, as I have already pointed out, seems to be saturated already with the goods and commodities of life, a community, I might remind the House, that led the world in the sale of television receivers when television was first introduced into Australia in 1956 and 1957. Australia led the world again in sales of colour receivers, on a per head of population basis, when colour television was introduced last year. These must be the kinds of things about which the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  was talking when he spoke of the development of industry and the manufacture of more goods- or is the Government to stop the importation of garments from Asia or any other part of the world? Government spokesmen have not said that. 
If the Government is to talk about the development of projects involving roads, bridges, drainage and the like I would remind the Minister that most of this work is carried out with government financing and that means government spending and already we have been told that this spending is to be rather dramatically cut back. No one has explained, except by cliche, and that does not explain anything, as to how extra industry and extra jobs are to be found. As I indicated in an earlier speech in this House today, it is claptrap to talk about cutting wages and providing employment in that way. That will not stand up in practice. It has not stood up anywhere in the world and there is no reason why it should stand up in Australia. 
For all these reasons, and for many more that could be gone into- and I am sure that my colleagues as they speak in this debate will highlight the inadequacies of this document, the inadequacies of the Government and its inability, untrustworthiness and its hopeless record in its 3 short months of office- I could not support the motion before the Chair and I reaffirm my opposition to it. 
-I am rather pleased that this matter of public importance has been raised by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  because it is a matter of deep concern to people who were not born in this country and who through various circumstances now find themselves living here. After the honourable member put his case- I thought he did so quite properly, quite fairly and quite well- I was then pleased to hear the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  say that he welcomed the discussion because it was non-partisan and it was an endeavour to get to the root of the problem that besets these people in our community. Having used those nice words the Minister then put on his boots, picked up his bat and proceeded to wale about him, striking everything within sight. 
His first comment was on what he termed the disgraceful treatment of migrants, refugees and the like by the previous Government. I am sure that when the Minister reads that in  Hansard  tomorrow he will regret somewhat having used those words. When he goes among the migrant community- in view of what he said, obviously he has not been there yet- he will find that it was not until the advent of the Labor Government in 1972 that the migrants in this country were elevated from a position in which they were brought here to do the dirty tasks, the unpleasant tasks and to fill the gaps in the factories in jobs which Australian people were a bit loath to take. They will tell him that it was the Labor Government which gave these people dignity, which elevated them from that status which was thrust upon them by 23 years of non-caring Liberal governments and moved them to a position of dignity where they were recognised in the community and encouraged to participate in the community. He then went on to attack the easy visa system and he blamed that system as the reason for there being, on his own admission, some 32 500 'illegal' migrants in Australia. I put that term 'illegal' in inverted commas. I do not think it is the appropriate term to use but I cannot think of any other. The reason for the easy visa system was not to encourage people to migrate to Australia at all- it was far removed from that- it was a method devised by the Labor Government to facilitate the travel of  bona fide  travellers wishing to travel around the world, wishing to enter countries without impediment or hindrance. It was a system devised to enable them to do this. 
-Tourists, as my friend the honourable member for Banks reminds me. It was a method designed to allow these people to travel freely to gain knowledge or perhaps for pure recreation. However, unscrupulous travel agents around the world, both in this country and in other countries, saw this system as an immediate source of revenue and went out almost as unofficial migrant recruiters. They recruited people in all parts of the world and told them quite bluntly and openly that they should just get themselves a passport, that they would have no trouble getting a visa, that they could go to Australia as a tourist or a visitor and just prop there and they would have no further problems. The previous Labor Government had to face up to the difficulties caused by those unscrupulous travel agents and this Government, of course, is now faced with the problems, but it is unfair and grossly improper to say that the introduction of the easy visa system in itself brought about this situation. It was the prostitution and misuse of that easy visa system by unscrupulous travel agents that brought it about and they are not people over whom we have control. If the Minister is sincere and does intend to get to the bottom of this very knotty problem he will first of all withdraw the statement that the Labor Party treated migrants disgracefully. 
I freely concede that I have given to migrants in my own office the reported advice of the honourable member for Melbourne, that migrants should hold off, as quoted by the Minister. Like the honourable member for Melbourne I have a very large number of migrants living in my electorate. I can give the Minister names- I do not intend to do so- of many migrants who entered this country by various means and who are living here, undetected so far, in fear of a knock on the door. They are Europeans. They have come from countries where it is not unusual for police to be knocking on doors in the middle of the night. They are afraid. 
-Yes, it is happening to a member of this House, apparently. These people have made a life for themselves in Australia. They are living in the same way as the rest of the community. The only difference between them and myself is that they entered the country by a strange method. If they do not distrust this present Government, I do. I make no apologies for that statement because it has broken too many promises already for me to be able to trust it. I am very loath to trust it with the future security of a very large number of people who, if they continue to live in the community, will probably continue to live here undetected. Why should I advise them to go to the Minister's Department, not knowing what the Department's requirements are? Why should I advise them to give up the relative freedom and security they now have apart from their fear, when within 24 hours they could find themselves on a boat back to Yugoslavia or some other European country? If it is not known to the Minister I can tell him that stories are circulating in the migrant community- this is something which he will have to contend with- that this sort of thing is indeed happening, that people are going to the Department 's offices in the capital cities and without any query or explanation are being placed on ships or aeroplanes and sent out of this country. 
-I am not suggesting for one moment that those stories are true. I am relaying to the Minister the fears that are found in the migrant community in Australia. On the Minister's own admission, fewer than one-eighth of the people who are entitled to amnesty have applied for it. If my memory serves me correctly the Minister mentioned that some 4000 people out of a total known number of 32 500 illegal migrants in this country have applied for amnesty. He mentioned also that only 300 or 400 people took advantage of the previous amnesty, and then he used that argument as a basis to compare the trust of this Government with the trust of the previous Government. The Minister also used the expression 'grape-vine'. I can tell the Minister without fear of contradiction that it was because those 400 people- a small number of peoplewere granted amnesty by the previous Government without strings attached and without recrimination that the word got around when this amnesty was proposed that bureaucracy in Australia could be trusted. So the Minister drew the wrong conclusion, as he generally does, from the facts that were put before him. 
I do not think that his explanation for the amnesty being short and sharp quite answered the point made by the honourable member for Melbourne. The Minister tried to justify it by saying that it would raise inequities with people who came here later. But the honourable member for Melbourne made it quite clear that he was speaking about only those who had arrived in this country prior to 31 December 1975 and not about anybody who had arrived since. That seems to me to be a very reasonable proposition. It is a pity the Minister misunderstood it and tried to justify his own position by saying that it would be dangerous and injurious and would create inequalities if the amnesty were allowed to extend over a period of one year rather than a period of 3 months. 
I can tell stories about the legions of people who have come to my office seeking advice about this matter. How would I know what to tell them? I am not a policeman in any way, shape or form. I just happen to enjoy the support and the confidence of the majority of people in an area of Melbourne. Therefore I have the privilege to stand in this House and speak here today. 
-There are former policemen in this House. How would the Minister handle the situation if he were placed in that position? How would he deal with somebody who came to his office if he were completely unaware of the sincerity or the terms of the amnesty which are vague? How would he feel if he had to say to those people: 'I think that you can go along, place your trust in these people and tell them all the facts. We will just have to cross our fingers and hope that it comes out all right.'? There is enough of the gambler in me for me not to tell that to the people. I am prepared to say to them, 'I am not sure what the terms are, nor can I find out. If you go and find out and they are unsuitable to you, you will be lumbered anyhow', to use the vernacular. So they cannot win. They are unsure, they do not really know, they are relying on Press reports and they are unable to find out. If they go to make an inquiry,  prima facie  they are guilty and they are grabbed. If the fellow is in a bad position and if he is one whom the Government wants to deport, away he goes without any further questions. In those circumstances this is a very real human question. It goes right to the basis of what our society is all about. I trust that the matter can be handled in a far better way than by a slanging match on the floor of this House with recriminations being made by one honourable member against another. 
I am pleased that the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  is in the chamber because the matter which I wish to raise will be of great interest to him. It affects a large number of people, mainly public servants, in Melbourne, particularly in my area of Broadmeadows. It came about from an article in the Melbourne  Age  this morning headed '$80m Office Plan Scrapped'. The article states that the present Government does not intend to proceed with a proposal put forward by the previous Government. The proposal was the construction of office accommodation for public servants at various locations in Melbourne. In October last year the Labor Government announced that it proposed to provide office accommodation at Sunshine, Broadmeadows, Watsonia, Epping and Dandenong. Broadmeadows and Epping are in the electorate of Burke, Watsonia is in Diamond Valley, and Dandenong is in Holt. I hope that the members for those electorates will join with me in an endeavour to persuade the Government to change its mind and proceed with the original proposal. My friend, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, when he was the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, considered this proposal. 
It is a simple plan. In its simplicity lies its brilliance. The plan is popular and practical and would involve the Australian Government in no outlay of money for capital works and would commit it to no more exenditure than is now being incurred. There could be a reduction in expenditure. The previous Government was concerned at the concentration of public servants in the central business district of Melbourne- indeed, in all capital cities- and consciously sought to move them to the suburbs. This benefited the public servants who could work at places close to their homes. It eased the load on the egress and ingress routes in Melbourne. The proposal was for developers to provide funds. So no Australian Government money was involved in constructing the buildings and becoming landlords of the buildings. The plan was for the Australian Government to agree to lease the buildings for a fixed period at an agreed rental, with an option to purchase at some time in the future. 
For some years I have approached various Ministers to have established in the City of Broadmeadows an Australian Government centre. The Council of the City of Broadmeadows supports my efforts. The Department of Social Security, the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Divisional Returning Officer and myself are housed in rented premises at various locations in Glenroy. Those premises could hardly be described as satisfactory because of the proximity of an arterial road which carries a large volume of heavy motor vehicles. The City of Broadmeadows has a fine City Hall, with excellent administrative offices, standing on a large allotment of land adjacent to a suburban railway station and a regional shopping centre. It is well served by public transport, with ample car parking space for private transport. 
Land is available. Negotiations could be held with the Broadmeadows City Council. There would be no capital outlay by the Australian Government. The Broadmeadows City Council was enthusiastic to join with the Australian Government and a developer to develop the Civic Centre into a one-stop operation for any citizen requiring assistance from either the Australian Government of local government. The City will be deeply disappointed to learn that a building designed to complement its buildings and services and the provision of services to complement its services will not now proceed. The private developers will be disappointed as the proposed projects would have given a much needed fillip to the construction industry. The popularity of the scheme is not in doubt, as I understand that some 90 companies tendered for the right to construct the buildings. There seemed to be only advantages in the proposal and no disadvantages. So it is difficult for me to understand why it has been discontinued. 
It is believed that some 10 000 public servants would be housed in the buildings. Rent is being paid now to house these people. They are not extra public servants; they are existing public servants. The amount paid in rent each year by the Australian Government for premises is of gigantic proportions and could be the subject of a separate debate. I repeat that no Government funds are required to construct the buildings and the rent to be paid for the buildings is being paid now.  Senator Withers  has been reported as follows: 
The Liberal Government had reviewed the proposal in the light of its overall economic assessments. 
It seems very strange that a project which will cause no expense to the Australian Government but will provide an excellent service to the community, a benefit to our own employees, and an advantage to the construction industry, can be considered as part of an economic assessment. It is my fervent hope that the Government will reconsider its decision and ensure that this scheme proceeds as originally planned. 
-I rise now to speak in support of the amendment moved by my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  Before proceeding to do so I think I should say that the speech just delivered to this House by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  should not pass without some comment. It seemed to me that he, along with those who sit on the other side of this House, was quite prepared to lay the blame for the inflation and unemployment that beset this country, not so badly as they beset comparable countries, squarely at the feet of the Australian Labor Party. No acknowledgment has been made by any  speaker  on the other side of the House that causes other than that were at fault, nor has any of them recognised that nobody attacked the problems of inflation and unemployment more assiduously than did the Labor Government. If that were not so, why is the present Government continuing to use the Budget that was brought in by the Labor Government, by Treasurer Hayden at that time? The reason is clear. The Budget has been recognised by those who sit opposite as a very clear and very effective weapon to bring under control the problems of inflation and unemployment. 
I read in the Press only this morning that the half-yearly reports of the manufacturing industries in this country are now starting to come in. Unfortunately I did not keep a copy. It seems that they had pretty substantial increases in their profits during the last 6 months of 1975. That is the period when we were blamed for letting inflation run wild in this country. It is said that Australia had the worst unemployment, caused by the Labor Government, in 40 years. That is also true of many other countries. I wonder whether many people on the opposite side of this House understand why we have unemployment or what is happening in our society and in all industrialised countries. If they were to come to some decision, if they were to consider the causes of unemployment rather than letting their tiny minds run wild and use only the obvious political excuse that the Labor Party was to blame, perhaps the Government of Australia, such as it is at the moment, would come down with some sort of solution to the problem. The solutions that have been floated at the moment are nebulous and unworkable and will compound the problem rather than alleviate it. 
-It is quite easy to answer. If the honourable member had as much wisdom as he likes to indicate to the House he thinks he has he would know. The cause of unemployment, as I see it , is a surplus of labour in this country and in every industrialised country. The word that I have just used, 'industrialised ', is one of the reasons there is a surplus of labour in this country and in other industrialised countries. There is no shortage of goods in Australia. There is no lack of services in Australia. There are as many goods and services as citizens care to purchase. All the goods and services are being provided. They can be provided, as proven by the present circumstances, by a smaller work force. There is no recognition by those opposite that there are 300 000 to 400 000 surplus workers in Australia. Honourable members opposite laugh about it. They can laugh as hard as they like. 
-They talk about exports. It seems to me that there is not a scrap of good manufacturing commodities, which is all we can export, if there is a surplus of commodities in the world already. If there is not a surplus of commodities in the world already why are there people unemployed in other countries which are manufacturing commodities? There is no answer to that question. 
I have one other point to make before I move off the speech of the honourable member for Mallee. He spoke of the demise of small business in Australia. This has been the bleat by people opposite since they were elected and during the course of the election campaign. They bleated about the demise of small business in Australia. Let us examine the question. Why has small business in Australia declined? Why are small business people complaining? The honourable member for Mallee gave as some excuse the question of taxation. I do not believe that. Small business in Australia has declined because of the system that those opposite support- good old free enterprise- a system that I do not support, never have supported and never will support. It is a system by which everybody goes into the market place and takes their chances. The small businessman believes in that. Honourable members opposite believe in that. Let the small businessmen go into the market place. That is what they have done. The small businessman in his little shop has been run out of business by the supermarket. The small businessman in his manufacturing plant has been run out of business by the bigger ones. It was not anything other than that. It was free enterprise at work which destroyed the small businessman. 
To those who sit on the other side of this chamber, with their fetish about free enterprise, all I can say is that small businesses in Australia will disappear at a faster rate during the life of this Government- whether it is 12 months, 3 years or whatever the term may be- than they did in the past. Believe you me, the farmers whom these people in hayseed corner profess to support and whose points of view they think they are putting forward will rue the day that there was a change of government in this country. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. He will have noted yesterday's decision of the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to award a 36% hour working week to the 500 employees of the Australian Postal Commission and the recommendation of Deputy President Isaacs to the Postal Commission to discuss the extension of the shorter working week with the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union. Has the Government hitherto refused to allow the Australian Postal Commission to negotiate with the union on this matter? If so, will it now allow such negotiations to take place or will it repudiate the recommendation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and jeopardise industrial peace by refusing to allow such negotiations? In view of the fact that the Full Bench in unanimously awarding the shorter working week once again rejected the Government submission that to grant the union's claim would be economically catastrophic, will the Government now consider taking a more realistic and sensible attitude to industrial issues? 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of grave concern among staff members of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in Hobart due to persistent rumours of impending staff dismissals? Does the Minister recall an agreement of October last year between the Minister for Labor and Immigration in the previous Government and the Federated Clerks Union that no such dismissals would take place, and that staff would not be retrenched or posted to other States? What negotiations on this matter has the present Government had with the Federated Clerks Union? Will the Government give a clear undertaking that it will not dismiss Authority personnel in Hobart? 
-It is inevitable when we have a debate about Australia and Japan that there should be discussion about purely economic matters. They seem to occupy the minds of most people. The Australia-Japan Foundation Bill which is before the House- I am very pleased to see that the new Government acted so quickly on the Bill that was drafted by the previous Labor Government and brought the matter forward for discussionraises other questions of the relationship between 2 peoples, particular cultural relationships. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  in moving into that area mentioned the difference in understanding between our 2 peoples of such a simple thing as a contract. To us it is a simple thing. Then the honourable member set about saying- I do not think I have taken his words down correctly, but he seemed to suggest this- that the previous Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  was not very well accepted in Japan, was a bit bumble-footed and a bit elephantine. I think they were the words he used, giving the impression that the honourable gentleman did not understand the Japanese psychology in trade. It was my understanding when I was in Japan and when I spoke to people in Japan- people who have lived there for many years, people who are occidentals and who claim to understand the oriental mind- that the honourable gentleman was held in very high regard in his negotiations with the people of Japan. 
It is my firm belief, having watched them in action, that the Japanese business people are very astute business people in that sense. I think that the so-called captains of industry in Australia appear to be something like a kindergarten class when they come up against the Japanese businessmen. They are manoeuvred at every turn of the wheel and they do not have the capacity to deal with the Japanese people on an equal level. The Japanese, to use a colloquialism, in fact play them on a break in every deal that is made. But there was a slightly different attitude towards the honourable member for Cunningham, because in the first instance he went to Japan not to make any sharp deals or anything like that but to look after the interests of our Australian heritage, our natural resources. He had seen enough of previous governments trading away the natural resources of Australia at bargain basement prices and was determined to redress that situation. Indeed, in the 3 years that he was Minister he in fact did that. 
I think the House will recall the occasion when the smart miners in this country, in writing their contracts for the export of minerals, made an error of judgment and wrote their contracts in American dollars. When the Australian dollar was revalued they did not know how to get out of the situation. It was the honourable member for Cunningham who approached the buyers of our minerals and sought renegotiation of the contracts. So the smart captains of industry in Australia got themselves hoist on their own petard. It was only the elephantine efforts, if one likes to use that phrase, of the Minister for Minerals and Energy at that time which saved those people from financial disaster. 
The honesty of the Japanese people is incredible and something really to see. I well remember an occasion in a very crowded store in Kyoto when I was buying films which at that time were priced at 1,000 yen each, which is roughly SA2.50. In my haste I gave the girl a 1,000 yen note and a 10,000 yen note, believing that I had given her two 1,000 yen notes, and I walked away. In fact she had received one note worth $A2.50 and another worth $A25. 1 had paid, or was prepared to pay, $A27.50 for 2 films which apparently were worth $A5. But she chased after me out of the store and into the street and insisted that I accept the change from the 10,000 note which I had given to her. I do not want to cast aspersions on any shop assistant in any country but I would be surprised if a shop assistant in another country in similar circumstances pursued somebody half way round the town to ensure that change was given to him when that person was quite happy with the transaction that had been carried out. This is indicative of the honesty I found amongst the Japanese peoplefrom this little girl working in a store, operating a cash register, all the way up the line to those who were arranging deals of international magnitude. 
This is something which is not generally understood by the Australian people. I find when speaking to people in my own country that there are many misconceptions about the Japanese people. There seems to be an aura of mystery about the Japanese language. Of course it is a difficult language but to Australian people any other language is difficult, including Queenslandese. The difficulty with Japanese is magnified by the fact that it is not written in Roman characters. I suppose that that is a difficulty but it is not an insurmountable one provided people are prepared to sit down and look at it. There is a great deal of misunderstanding and misconception by the Australian people about the people of Japan. This is reciprocated by the Japanese people, who have a very limited knowledge of our country. We are at opposite ends of a trading route, at opposite ends of the eastern Pacific area, yet there is very little intercourse between the 2 countries except at the trade and commercial level. There is no wholesale movement of Australian tourists to Japan or vice versa. I understand from the Bill that the Foundation is to be charged with the responsibility of making sure that closer relationships are developed. 
I have 2 minds about the need for a Foundation. I recognise and fully understand the need for it but it strikes me as very strange that a government, the Australian Government- and the Government should be congratulated on its initiative even though it is taking up a measure introduced by the previous Government- should set up a Foundation to encourage trade, intercourse and cultural relations between 2 peoples. Australian people are quite noted for their capacity to travel to other places, and for the way that they do travel, but seldom do they travel north along the route to Japan. Australians generally drop off at what they consider more exotic places such as Singapore and Hong Kong. I do not know that we can coerce people into engaging in cultural exchanges. I do not think that is the intention of the Bill, anyhow. I think the intention of the Bill is to provide a centre or a font from which information can be disseminated about the people of Japan and about their cultures. I am afraid there still are a lot of Australian people who caricature the Japanese culture as being that of the geisha house, mixed bathing, sukiyaki and the Datsun motor car. I am pretty sure that the Japanese caricature Australian culture as being based on the meat pie, tomato sauce and Australian Rules football. We all know that that is not the culture of Australia and our own intelligence should tell us that the Japanese culture is much deeper than those superficial things. There is a limited amount of information available in Australia about the real Japan and perhaps the Foundation will overcome this situation. Perhaps the Foundation will set up resource centres where information can be disseminated to the community. 
I found the Japanese people to be remarkable, considering the work they have done in their islands and the fact that Japan has no real natural resources. Japan had no raw materials with which to build its freeways, bridges, underground railways and to do many other things that have been done in that country. The raw materials were imported and processed and then these things were manufactured or erected. The Australian transport authorities could well learn from Japan's underground rail system. It runs a train every 2 minutes in Tokyo and the system covers every part of the city. After 5 minutes study of a chart the system can be used by any dumb foreigner such as 1. 1 managed not to get lost on the Japanese rail system. I travelled all over the city on it. It was quite a magnificant arrangement. Everything was colour coded so that I did not have to understand the language. All the stations are spaced out and all I had to do in order to find out where I got out of the train was to count the stations. There was not even confusion about how much I should pay for a ticket. Tickets are issued automatically from machines. I just pumped coins into a machine and it pumped the tickets out for me. The railway that runs some 300 miles from Tokyo to Kyoto is fully computerised, and trains run every 20 minutes. I cannot get that sort of service from the Victorian railways at Broadmeadows and that is only 9 miles from Melbourne. 
-Ticket machines would be a big help but the service is more important. That sort of information should be disseminated generally among the Australian people. Australians should be encouraged to visit Japan and Japanese should be encouraged to visit Australia, just as they move westward across the ocean to Hawaii and the United States of America in large numbers. That in itself would bring about a greater understanding. 
I am very much afraid that prejudices still exist in Australia- I am not so sure that they exist to such an extent in Japan- following events that occurred over 30 years ago. Those events are still remembered and, unfortunately, still spoken of. It is better that they be forgotten now than that they should continue to be a barrier between 2 people living in a region, one of them occidental in origin and the other oriental. We have to continue to live in this region and to trade with one another. There will never be successful trade treaties unless there is understanding by one of the psychology of the other. So long as there is some form of distrust between the 2 peoples there will continue to be conflict. 
I am not so sure that the resources of this country can be left in the hands of individuals. I do not agree at all with that proposition. I think the development of the natural resources of this country is a matter for the Government of this country. I speak not of the separate State governments but of the Australian Government, the national Government. Negotiations that take place to dispose of or sell those resources should be conducted at government to government level, not at individual to individual level. That applies to the minerals of this country, such as coal, and our primary products. 
It is not my intention to take up the full time available to me. I welcome this Bill. I have some regrets that it was not brought in much earlier. That is always the case with somebody who believes in something and finally sees it come about However, the Bill is here now and it is assured of a speedy passage through this House and the other place as there is no opposition to it. The measure was proposed by the previous Government and therefore the Labor Party has no objection to it. This Government has introduced it and it has no trouble in getting Bills passed through this House or the other place. It is quite clear that the Bill will not be delayed. I believe that the sooner the Foundation is set up, the sooner it will function and the sooner will the benefits become apparent to both the Australian and the Japanese peoples. I commend the Bill. 
I join this debate for one principal reason. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  who preceded me in this debate, is aware that in fact a site for the new and permanent Parliament House has been established by Act of this Parliament- in fact by a private member's Bill which I had the honour to introduce into this House- and the site within the parliamentary triangle is on Capital Hill, the hill behind the hill behind this building. The map attached to that Act defines the area over which the Parliament has absolute control. No works of any significance can be carried out in that area without the approval of the Parliament. The committee that existed prior to the dissolution of the Parliament on 1 1 November last year had, in fact, started to meet on this question. It met within the National Capital Development Commission, it canvassed various propositions and it had a display in the corridors of this building to give an indication of the style of building which it was envisaged would be erected. 
That brings me to an important point. It has always been my view that we cannot enlarge this building and say that it is our new Parliament House. Whilst this building now serves a purpose for the meetings of the Parliament there is no guarantee that it will do so as the Parliament may function in the future. I remind the House that we are not looking 10, 15, 20 or 30 years ahead and if the Parliament is wise on this issue it will try to project its thinking quite a few years into the future and envisage the sort of Parliament we may have at that time. Even now, due to the political accident that occurred on 13 December, this chamber does not accommodate all Government supporters on the Government side of the chamber. It does not even accommodate all members of the principal Government party. I notice that 4 seats have been placed in what used to be a Speaker's gallery to accommodate honourable members because the chamber is not large enough. 
Two things could happen in the future. One is that the membership of the Parliament may not increase dramatically in size. That could come about by each member representing a greater number of people in the future. But if honourable members are to represent 66 000 people, whom they now represent on average, as the population rises so will the population in this chamber increase. Certain constitutional difficulties are involved because this chamber just cannot keep on increasing by one or two members at a time. If there is to be any increase in this chamber there must of necessity be movement in the Senate and, under the Constitution, an increase in the number of senators will be reflected in the membership of this House. So we are not really talking about an increase of two or three members in this place; we are really talking about an increase of 24 members or perhaps even as many as forty-eight. That is the sort of movement that could occur. Not all of the 127 members of the House of Representatives who occupy this building can be accommodated in the offices on the House of Representatives side. Some of them, in fact, have their offices tucked away far from this chamber in a corner on the Senate side. 
The honourable member for Evans mentioned office accommodation. As one who has worked in a fairly large office and has had faculties and research staff available to me, my belief, in coming to this place to find myself locked into a small room, is that Rasputin, the rascally monk, vacated it because it did not suit him. All of these factors add up, but I do not think they are as important as the facilities available for the staff in the building. Honourable members are inclined to be a bit selfish in this regard, but great concern must be had for the people who work here. The conditions under which they work are appalling. If they were working under such conditions in private industry or in private commercial enterprise 1 can assure honourable members that their industrial representatives would find that they were working in breach of every industrial award in this country. For that reason alone I think that such conditions are an indictment of this Parliament. 
It is never popular to build public buildings. The figure proposed from somebody's head for the cost of the new Parliament House has escalated from something like $75m to 51,000m. I would not presume to say how much the building will cost because there is a time schedule of something like 10 years on its construction and that does not include its design. But for the sake of argument the building could be funded by an annual allocation of $ 10m to $ 15m which, if wisely invested over that period, would keep pace with inflation and would still retain its worth when the building was to be erected. All of these things could be done but if this Parliament is not courageous and prepared to grasp the nettle on the issue and decide that all of the things that have been said about this building- that it is structurally unsound and that it is unsuitable for people to be working in- are correct it will regret it. Not only will those on the other side who occupy their seats now, temporarily until the next election, regret it but also those who follow them will regret it. For those reasons I support the setting up of the proposed committee. 
Debate interrupted. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, I present the thirtyninth general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Listening to the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  one could be forgiven for wondering where one was and what one was listening to. I have never heard such a pompous, self-righteous address made in this House in all the time that I have been here. At no time since I have been a member of this House have I heard anybody divide the community so much as did the honourable member for Petrie. I have never heard such an insult offered to those who choose to rent their accommodation rather than own it. The great Party that the honourable member purports to represent says that it stands on the basis of freedom of the individual and freedom of choice, and promptly proceeds to assail those who exercise that freedom and choose to rent a house rather than buy. Because it suits the habits and the life style of the honourable member for Petrie to own his home- and I do not deny him that right- he believes that every Australian ought to conform to his style. I have news for him. The Australian community is made up of individuals. They should have the right to make their choice and not be pushed into a position, as the honourable member for Petrie obviously wants to push them. 
He overlooked the fact that to buy a house anywhere- even welfare housing- requires some accumulation of capital by the intending buyer. Rented accommodation does not require that accumulation. The honourable member then explained that some people do not have that sort of capital because they will not cut down on their luxuries, as he described gambling and a few other things. Apparently they are things with which he does not agree and, because he does not agree with them, in his judgment those who engage in them are necessarily wrong. He also mentioned that private contractors do construct homes. I believe that to be true of every State, but the honourable member was speaking especially of Queensland. In answer to an interjection he said that it was cheaper to do it that way in Queensland. Looking at the maladministration of the Government in Queensland, I can well believe that. The Government there is so inept and so corrupt that it could not do anything properly, even build a house. It is relying on the public sector to construct its housing for it because it does not know how to do that itself. The same thing is true in Victoria, which also has an inept and corrupt Government. If the honourable member were serious about people having homes to own he would have branched out into the area of making homes cheaper for people to own. If he knew anything at all about the building industry- and I am sure that he is a quite competent pharmacist- he would know that today, in 1976, houses are being built no differently from the way in which they were built earlier. The technology of house construction has never changed and no research has been conducted into it or, if research has been conducted, it has not been made apparent. 
This Bill provides $364.6m for the various States for welfare housing. In fact that is less than the amount provided last year, and in his second reading speech the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  justified that on the basis that the amount was set out in a Labor Budget anyhow and this Government did not feel like increasing it. It is a matter of conjecture, but I firmly believe that if Labor were still in government that amount would have been increased because of the escalation in building costs that is going on all the time. If this Government were only to match the amount that was allocated last year the amount would need to be of the order of $500m instead of $364m. 
This Government is on some sort of austerity kick. The honourable member for Petrie spent some time talking about deficits. It seems that he has the wrong impression, as has the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The honourable member for Petrie seems to believe that a deficit consists of money borrowed from another person. He used quite the wrong analogy. He should look on the Australian community as a family and say to himself, for argument's sake: 'My wife had funds available to her and I had funds available to me. We wanted to buy a car, so I used her funds and my funds to buy the car. We then owned the car. We were that much richer, or perhaps we were in exactly the same position because we transferred our cash into a fixed asset, but the family was no richer or poorer for the transaction that took place, except that we now had the use of a motor car. There was no money borrowed from a third person. There was no money owed to a third person. ' The honourable member for Petrie shakes his head. He holds his head in horror. This indicates that he, like his Prime Minister, is another follower of the 
Adam Smith philosophy of economics. Were he really to think about this rather than follow the garbage that was put out in this House and in the electorate prior to the elections, he would understand what I am saying. His intelligence is not so low that he cannot follow such a simple argument. 
I am not too sure that there is a passion among the people of Australia to own their own homes. The reason the ownership of homes in Australia is so high is that there is no preference given; there is no choice given. Under the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Act, as honourable members opposite well know, State housing commissions must build rental accommodation. I believe that in the past the building by the Victorian Housing Commission in particular has consisted of high rise flats which I would describe as concrete Weetie boxes of containerised misery. People are forced to live in those places. They have no choice in the matter. Those places are unsuitable for the people because the family must have children before it can be provided with accommodation by the Victorian Housing Commission. So the family has children- two or three children, sometimes more- and it is moved into these monstrosities which are unsuitable for that sort of habitation. All sorts of social problems are created in the local community simply because those places are unsuitable and the people who inhabit them do not have the choice. 
If people refuse to live in this sort of accommodation they are forced to place themselves very heavily in debt, incurring a second mortgage so that they can acquire a place of their own. This places unbearable stresses on the family. Yet the honourable member for Petrie stands up in this place and self-righteously declares how wonderful it is that a very high percentage of the people in Australia own their own homes. He goes on to say that these houses are better cared for than rented houses. I dispute that; I dispute it most definitely. There is absolutely no evidence to suggest that, except the honourable member's own prejudices. I believe that the Australian people, rather than wanting to own their own homes, want security of tenure of premises. They simply want to know that they have accommodation. I confess to a bias in this matter. That is all I have ever wanted. I am not an accumulator of property, and I never will be. All I want is security of tenure of premises while I am alive and to ensure that when my wife lives on after me she will be accommodated. Apart from that, I have no views on the matter. The honourable member for 
Petrie seems to believe that all that every Australian wants to do is to acquire about one-fifth of an acre of land, some 17&amp; tons of bricks and mortar and a very comfortable dwelling, and to settle back and say: 'That is it'. The honourable member may be in a different position from other people so far as meeting the very high repayment costs are concerned, I do not know; but I can assure him from my experience with my own son and daughter-in-law that great hardship is felt by those 2 young people in trying to do the very thing that honourable members opposite tell us is the dream of all Australians. I am very surprised at my fellow Australians if their dream is to get themselves up to their eyebrows in debt, so that their wives must go out to work to supplement the income in order to meet the repayments. If that is the dream of all Australians, then I am very disappointed in my fellow Australians. 
The question of interest rates has been raised. I would not like to enter into a discussion now and try to give the reasons for interests rates being as high as they are. I have my own views on that. I do not think they should be so high in the field of housing. However, recognising this situation, the Australian Labor Party Government did give a concession to those who owed money when it made the interest component of their mortgage repayments tax deductible. Of course, a formula was applied to that concession. This helped to take some of the burden off the people who were paying off their homes. It is all very well to give people a grant to build their own home in the first place, but very often this simply increases the price of the house by the amount of the grant. It becomes a skim-off to the builder and is of no real value to the people who want to own a home. It is a once-only thing. However, the scheme proposed and put into operation by the Australian Labor Party Government was a continuing one. It was something of which the people who were buying their homes- not those who were going to buy but those were in fact buying their homes- were able to take advantage for evermore, were the scheme to be continued. 
To the best of my information, this Government has done its utmost to destroy that scheme. I believe that the first 6 per cent of interest paid now is not a tax deduction. Yet honourable members opposite talk about people wanting to own their homes. I talk about the people who are of very limited means and want to own their homes. People buying their houses from the Housing Commission in Victoria are not paying much more than 6 per cent interest on their loans. In other words, what the Government has done to them effectively is to deny them a tax deduction each year in respect of the interest component of their mortgage repayments. These are the people who can least afford that sort of treatment. It is another hardship that this merciless Government has placed upon people who are not in a good position to defend themselves because they do not have the financial resources to do so. 
This whole Bill is supposed to be about welfare housing. If honourable members are going to talk about welfare housing, surely they will be talking about people who have limited resources and people who are least able to defend themselves. It is of no interest to those who do not need that sort of support anyhow. Whilst this Bill does not provide as much money as is needed, coupled with the shortcomings of this Government which does not seem to care very much about people at that end of the social scale and which is pursuing its so-called austerity drive, these houses are built by private enterprise, as indicated by the honourable member for Petrie. The people who sit opposite are supposed to be the supporters of private enterprise. There is no shortage of building materials in Australia, except perhaps in isolated pockets such as the Northern Territory. Again, let me speak about Victoria. There is no shortage of building materials in Victoria. There is no shortage of timber, steel, glass, mortar, sand, cement, timber, tiles and all the other things that go into constructing a building. There is no shortage of the furnishings or the furbishings that go inside the building. There is no shortage of skilled tradesmen to erect the buildings. Yet, by denying funds to the States or rather by not improving the flow of funds to the States- of course, we must rely on governments in this respect and I have pointed out already that the one in Victoria is hopeless anyhow- or by not allowing a sufficient flow of funds to the State governments this Government is only doing injury to the building industry, which really needs a stimulus. 
In Victoria land is not a real consideration, although I suppose the servicing of it is. The Victorian Housing Commission owns large tracts of undeveloped land at Broadmeadows. Over the last few years it has acquired tracts of land at both Melton and Sunbury. It can develop this land. It can build houses on it, provided the funds flow to it. Simply by leaving the figures at $364.6m the Commonwealth has effectively reduced the amount of money available to the State. The State will build fewer houses. 
I spoke earlier about the need for new techniques in building houses. It seems to me that there are 2 ways to go about building more houses. We either continue to increase the flow of money to the States and continue to build houses in the traditional way or, if we are not prepared to do that, there is a responsibility on the Australian Government, because of the resources available to it, to develop new techniques in building houses. In this way, with the same amount of money, if houses can be constructed more economically by the use of new techniques, more dwellings can be constructed, more families can be accommodated. I raised some mirth on the other side of the House when I said that the techniques in building houses have not changed dramatically over the years. The only technique that has changed is the use of power tools rather than hand tools. I can assure those opposite who seem, through their laughter, to know absolutely nothing about the building industry, that the method of construction is still the same. There is still a penchant for placing terra cotta or clay tiles on roofs, needing a forest of timber underneath them to support their weight. There seems to be little use in the building industry of the new and lighter materials such as aluminium, duralumin or even steel. They are being used in some areas, but they are still being erected on site. There are no large housing factories in Australia, as there are in Sweden, which can prefabricate a building for erection on site. In that way families can be housed in a much shorter time, and the people can have a house perhaps at a lower cost. 
The view that I express now is my own. I have not canvassed it within my party. I do not know whether it would be accepted or rejected by the party. My view is that if our society, as a society, is to be an ongoing thing, if it is to continue beyond our lifetime, if we are to construct buildings, if people are to own land in their own right the redevelopment of our towns and cities will be made virtually impossible in future. If land is in the ownership of only one person it is easier to redevelop areas or to replan towns. If the land is in the ownership of a multitude of people, because of the difficulties in treating with these people, it is virtually impossible to redevelop an area than has been developed for a long time. Because of changing life styles and changing uses by the community there could be a need to redesign a street layout or to reconstruct the buildings. We know the position in the older areas of our cities. The word 'slums' is not used commonly now, but it was some years ago, to describe those areas. My belief is that if the ownership of land is with one body it is a lot easier to overcome certain problems in future. However, conservative governments have consistently ruled in Australia. It seems that their penchant and their whole creed are based upon the ownership of land. That statement probably will not make me very popular with a lot of people, but I am here to express my views on these things. They are my views. 
If houses were to cost less to build, either through a new technique or through some other reason, there would not be shortcomings in the various housing commissions throughout the nation. The commissions seem to be adept at constructing roads, providing sewerage, drainage and other services to the blocks of land that they own and of building houses on that land. In fact, they almost build new towns. The only thing is that they build nothing other than roads and houses and provide no services other than sewerage, drainage and reticulated services. There is no provision in any housing commission area for community facilities. I speak again specifically of Victoria. There are no public halls built in an area by the Housing Commission. There is no development of playing fields. Yet the Commission moves families into the area. In the area of Coolaroo the Housing Commission, an authority of the Victorian Government responsible for building houses, and the Education Department, an authority of the Victorian Government responsible for building schools, were working in the one area. It was planned to build about 500 homes and one school. Each home has at least  Vh  children. I do not know how the experts get a figure of half a child, but this is what they say. Consequently the Commission built 500 houses. On anybody's arithmetic, there would be about 500 school-age children as soon as the houses were constructed. The Education Department felt that it did not have the funds to build the school that year. So it did not go ahead with the school. The planning is so bad that the Commission built the houses, but the Education Department did not build the school. This lack of planning is indicative of the inept government in Victoria. These services ought to be provided. When I put to the Victorian Housing Commission the argument about providing services it simply says: 'If we were to do that we would build fewer houses'. I appreciate that fact. I wonder what is needed most or whether both go hand in glove. For that reason, I support the Bill. If I have any opposition to it, it is simply that the funds made available to the States are not enough. 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that as of Friday of last week members of the Transport Workers Union of Australia employed to service domestic airlines, members of the Storemen and Packers Union employed in some wool stores, nurses in New South Wales, members of the Storemen and Packers Union employed by drug suppliers and a large retail store in New South Wales, members of the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union supplying supermarkets in Sydney, train guards in New South Wales, brewery workers in Darwin, workers in the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union at the General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd plant in South Australia, employees at soft drink plants in Perth and members of the Municipal Officers' Association of Australia in Western Australia employed by the State Energy Commission were either on strike or were threatening strike action? Will he now tell the House what action the Government will take to honour its pre-election statement that less time would be lost through industrial action with a LiberalNational Country Party coalition Government? 
-To hear the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  espouse his theories on economics and on those people who are having difficulty finding work was like listening to something from the beginning of the last century. 
-I have been reminded by the honourable member for Hindmarsh that certain previous members of this House were even worse than the honourable member for Bradfield. The speech by the honourable member for Bradfield showed a complete lack of understanding on his part and on the part of the Government which he supports of the reason for the high degree of unemployment in industrialised countries throughout the world. I remind the House that the Labour Ministers of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development met in Paris on 4 and S March. Rather regrettably our Minister did not think that meeting was very important, and he did not attend. Reports coming from that meeting show that there was great concern among members of that august body about unemployment in the Western world. In fact the reports indicate that the OECD Ministers were very pessimistic about recovery in the near future. They suggested very strongly a strengthening of programs and recommended a development of programs and schemes to encourage employment in the various countries. The Government would interpret that, I believe, in its whole business of greater investment, as employment at private level by private employers. The whole structure of the world is changing. What we see in the world at the moment, I believe, is only the tip of an iceberg. As time goes by and technology catches up with the traditional methods of working, the unemployment problem will become greater unless more humane policies are adopted. 
Of all the actions taken by this Government in the name of austerity, the meanest and most despicable must be the labelling as dole bludgers those who are forced to exist on unemployment benefits. Even the coining of that phrase shows the depths of depravity to which a human mind can sink to gain political advantage at the expense of unfortunates. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has always struck me as a pretty reasonable sort of chap, intelligent enough to comprehend changes occurring in our society. He must have been very embarrassed to stand in this chamber last week and read to us his document headed 'Unemployment and the Work Test'. It would have been better tided 'A Liberal-Country Party manifesto on how to divide a community'. The statement was not prepared out of a spirit of resolving the unemployment problem besetting Australia or of easing the burden of those who are bearing the full cost of technological advance and uncertainty among consumers. It ignores the broad issue of unemployment as experienced by every industrialised nation. It ignores the continuing uneasy relationship between those who employ and those whom they employ. It ignores the frustration of those who wish to enter the work force but cannot because no position exists. It shows no understanding of the plight of those who now find it impossible to enter the work force, who have had difficulties in the past or who will in the future. These people are labelled dole bludgers. Those who are in work and who are paying taxes are incited to hate and despise the bludgers because it is said that the workers are keeping the bludgers. 
Apart from this inhuman grouping of unfortunates as lepers in our society, the language in the statement is calculated to inflame our society and to divide it. Expressions such as 'need to eliminate widespread abuse' are used. Neither the document nor this debate has shown any widespread abuse. Another expression used is 'tighten the unemployment benefit work test'. It seems to indicate that the work test at the moment is very slack, and that is a slight on the people who are administering the present scheme. The remark in the Minister's statement that unemployment is costing in the vicinity of $480m per annum is another remark on which I wish to comment. I do not think that the volume of money that is involved in this respect is of very great significance. There would be some honourable members in this House who can remember back to an earlier time when unemployment was also very great, but at that time people were standing in bread lines and at soup kitchens in order to gain sufficient food just to live. That is not happening in Australia at the moment. Therefore the collective wealth of Australia is such that it can afford to keep off the breadlinenot far above it; just above it- those who for a variety of reasons none of which is their own fault are unable to find employment. 
The lulu of them all was the following comment: 
This Government will not tolerate these devious devices to have the taxpayers support indolence. 
If the use of that expression is not more appropriate to the 19th century it would surprise me greatly. Many other expressions were used that were obviously designed to bring into ill-repute in their communities those who, for any reason at all, are unable to obtain employment. After making those exaggerated, inflammatory and unsupported statements the Minister made no attempt to show them to be true or to apologise for them when they were found to be wrong. 
After the elections in December the Government set about, at great public expense, instituting a witch-hunt to find those people who are allegedly making a rort of the system. In his statement to this House the Minister claimed that 30 per cent of the recipients of unemployment benefit were disqualified as a result of the campaign to find the bludgers. He then went on to explain that the great majority of this number were found to have legitimate reasons for cancellation and in fact would have been cancelled when the recipients sent the information to the Department. He conceded that they were in the process of doing so. Again we have another half truth in this statement. 
After this marathon exercise in crass stupidity the Minister lamely said: 
Of course, in some cases there is blatant misrepresentation. In these instances a prosecution is considered and in most cases appropriate action is taken. 
The Minister has been very indefinite about the whole thing. Nowhere has he told us in how many cases action has been taken. Nowhere has he admitted that the Labor Government was vigilant against those who misrepresented their circumstances. Nowhere has he had the good grace to admit that the Government's understanding of the situation is wrong. The attitude expressed in the statement is not to seek out those who misrepresent, as the ordinary machinery will catch up with them anyway; it is merely a smokescreen for a far more sinister purpose than that. 
Taken in isolation this statement could be interpreted as being an effort to run a clean ship and to ensure that those who are recipients of unemployment benefit are in fact in dire circumstances. However, when read in conjunction with other outbursts by the Government on industrial matters, the statement is seen as an insidious attempt to prevent unions from fighting for the rights of their members. It is a blatant attempt to cow those who are in employment and to discourage the taking of any action which may be regarded as being an assault on the established way of doing things or more likely a threat to the holy cow of profit The new 'guidelines', as I think they are referred to, place an enormous and terrible power in the hands of employers and can place an intolerable burden upon those who are employed or who seek employment. For example, the Government sees nothing wrong with an employee being required to spend 3 hours a day travelling to and from work. Travelling time of one-and-a-half hours a day is regarded as being reasonable. Travelling time of 3 hours a day, 5 days a week, means that an employee is required to be away from this home and his family an extra 15 hours a week but even more ridiculous is the fact that a worker from Sunbury, Broadmeadows, Keilor or anywhere else could be offered a job at Castlemaine, which is about a 1V4 hours drive from the outskirts of Melbourne, and, if he refused it, be denied unemployment benefit. 
Who decides whether unemployment benefit will be paid? The Director-General does that. If people move house for any reason other than to be nearer employment they will be denied unemployment benefit. The fellow who lives in rented accommodation and who for environmental reasons- say, for the sake of argument, the presence of a noxious industry or an airport, which is affecting his family-and who can obtain alternative rental accommodation only in an area where, in the opinion of the Commonwealth Employment Service, there are little or no employment prospects is rewarded for caring for his family's welfare by having his umployment benefit terminated. 
The statement refers to the term 'voluntarily unemployed' as being a ground for the refusal of such a payment. Nothing could be more directly designed to cow those in employment. Nothing could give a greater power to one person over another. Nothing could encourage the industrial bully more. Very few, if any, people like being unemployed and most will go to extraordinary lengths to retain their employment. If there is no prospect of alternative employment or the receipt of unemployment benefit the employee is completely at the mercy of his employer. Any employer who has a sadistic streak can heap indignity upon indignity until the employee's life becomes a misery. To where does the employee turn for relief? If he resigns he is not eligible for umployment benefit. If he complains to his employer or- even worse- to his union, further indignities will be heaped upon him. He can be reduced to doing the most menial task at the lowest rate of pay and have to live with it. 
The Government has used the term 'dole bludgers' to camouflage the most infamous assault on our society ever perpetrated by any government of any political persuasion. With most disarming hypocrisy the Minister attempted to justify his henious actions by saying: 
It will be evident from what I have said that the Government is not making changes to the unemployment benefits system to the disadvantage of genuine work seekers. 
Honourable members will note again that the inference there is that most of the unemployed are bludgers anyhow. The Minister went on to say: 
Nor is its aim to compel people to work - 
That is a rather curious insertion after the bit to which I have just referred-  that would be forced or compulsory labour, which is not acceptable in Australia or elsewhere - 
Here comes the punch line-  quite apart from the fact that it would be contrary to the International Labour Organisation conventions on forced labour which Australia has ratified. 
The whole document is an indictment of this Government. It shows again its complete bankruptcy in this area and its determination to crush people with its own might. 
I spoke earlier about the reasons for the unemployment. If the Government were sincere it would initiate a debate in this chamber as to why in fact there is unemployment in the Australian community rather than go through this exercise. Arising out of that debate suggestions and ideas would come forward. Not all wisdom resides on the government benches- front, back, in between or anywhere else. In fact very little of it does. Arising out of that the House would come to grips with the problem. Through it I believe that the Government would make itself informed on the reasons for the unemployment in this country and, indeed, in all of the industrialised countries throughout the world. If this country is to continue as a mixed economy in which people are encouraged to make goods or provide services and if it is to prosper then it is obvious that those goods and services must be sold. It seems to me that there is a limited market in Australia because of our rather small population. We seem to be supplying ourselves with as many goods and services as we need and as we can pay for. Still there is surplus money in the community. It is lying in savings bank deposits. Therefore we must look to other places to sell the goods that the Government believes we should be manufacturing to use up our surplus work force. 
In my view there are 2 markets for those goods. Firstly there are the countries which can afford to pay for them. Those countries, if one cares to examine them, already have their own unemployment problems. Secondly, there are the countries which need the goods or services that we can provide but which are not in a position to pay for them. I am wondering whether the captains of industry in this country are prepared to set themselves up as philanthropists and provide to those needy countries the goods and services that they want, that we can provide and for which they cannot afford to pay. The Government should talk about that economic conundrum. If it were to do so it would get closer to the reasons why we have an unemployment situation. The Government has instituted an investment allowance to encourage industry to buy new machinery. Each piece of new machinery that is made is made with one thought in mind- to make the industry in which it is used more mechanised and therefore to require fewer operators to increase its output- otherwise there is no point in making a new machine. If that sort of situation continues, more commodities will be provided in the community but fewer people will be required to provide them. That is the sort of situation to which the world is coming, and coming very rapidly. However, this Government, still following its understanding of the economic theories of Adam Smith, is never going to come to grips with the problem. 
-I hear an honourable member opposite saying: 'Hear, hear!' Clearly the honourable member who said that supports that sort of economic theory. If there are sufficient people as backward thinking as he is sitting on the other side of the House then the Government is never going to come to grips with the real problems that affect Australia. It will continue to do the things that are easiest to do; it will continue to beat those who are defenceless rather than to come to grips with the problem, understand the cause of it and take action which is in the best interests of the community. I refer not just to those unfortunates who have difficulty in finding employment. I can assure honourable members opposite that those people are not very happy at having to exist on the small unemployment benefit; it certainly does not put them in the Rolls-Royce purchasing category. They are having a struggle. What we are really talking about, what we should be talking about, is a better distribution of the wealth of this country amongst those people who reside in it- not only those who can find employment but also those who, for a very great variety of reasons, are unfortunate enough not to be able to find it. They should not be made the scapegoats for the rest of the community. 
I rise to support the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Superannuation Bill 1976 moved so ably by my colleague from Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  It is very important, as the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  mentioned, to take cognisance of the people who are employed by the Government, commonly known as public servants, when we refer, to superannuation. Superannuation is an integral part of the wages structure of public servants. There can be no doubt that a government cannot survive without its public servants and is entitled to the best public servants it can get. I do not subscribe to the view that public servants continually ought to be chastised and criticised by the rest of the community. I firmly believe that it is sheer nonsense to say that public servants in Australia receive special treatment. If we compare a public servant with a person performing a comparable task in the private sector, I firmly believe that we cannot put the public servant into the feather bed class as many people do. 
I do not think that we should make comparisons between government superannuation schemes and private superannuation schemes. I have heard it said that the proposed scheme and the scheme that was proposed by the Labor Party when in government last year are far too generous. There is a great need for anybody who makes an assertion such as that to be careful about the things he compares. It is just not possible to compare things unless they are alike; to compare things which are not alike is to come to a false conclusion. So if one is really going to make comparisons in relation to the superannuation scheme of the Australian public servant, the only way that one can do so is in relation to State government employees and the various schemes that have been implemented for the benefit of State public servants. 
I think that sort of comparison bears elaboration. Let me take, for the sake of argument, an Australian government employee presently earning $13,000 a year. That employee will contribute 10 per cent of salary as a maximum contribution and on retirement at age 65 will draw a pension of $9,425, which is 72.5 per cent of the $13,000 that he was earning while he was working. In comparing that situation with the situation which applies in the States, let me start with Western Australia. The Public Service in that State has a unitary scheme, so it is not possible to determine the contribution rate as a percentage. 
However, the maximum amount that can be drawn, again using as a basis a salary of $ 1 3,000, on retirement at age 65 is $7,956 or 58.9 per cent of final salary. In Tasmania, where public servants contribute 5.5 per cent of salary, the return is $8,658 or 66.6 per cent of salary. Even in Victoria a public servant earning $13,000 contributes 9 per cent of his salary as a maximum and will draw 70 per cent of his salary on retirement or $9,100. 
Now the comparison starts to get pretty interesting because in South Australia- we all know that that State has got a pretty good government- a public servant who enters the Service when he is less than 30 years of age contributes 6 per cent and receives 73.3 per cent of salary or $9,533 on retirement. Even in Queensland- we all know about the white man's Idi Amin who is running that State- public servants make a 6.5 per cent salary contribution and receive 75 per cent of salary or $9,750 on retirement. So a public servant in Queensland is in a better position than a public servant in Canberra. I suppose the Queensland people would need to receive that sort of benefit to put up with that person up there. The situation in New South Wales is pretty interesting. That State has a unitary scheme also, so again it is impossible to determine the percentage of contributions. But on retirement at age 65 the public servant in New South Wales, again using the example of a salary of $13,000 a year, receives $ 10,968 or 80.4 per cent of the salary that he received while he was working. Those figures are very significant, especially when one takes into account the adjustment which is made after the public servant retires. The consumer price index adjustment on the salary of the Australian government public servant applies only to the Government's share, yet in every other State it applies to the total amount of pension payable. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had just drawn the attention of the members to the way in which the Australian employee as a recipient of a superannuation pension is in no better position than any other public servant of Australia, as an employee of the States. In fact, in 3 of the 6 States the State recipient is in a much better position than the Australian Government employee and in Victoria the Victorian recipient is only marginally behind the Australian Government recipient. There is another feature of this new scheme,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that has a great deal of significance and that is what happens to the pension of the ex-public servant as time goes on. 
This can be only some sort of a guesstimate of what would happen, but to draw comparisons again between the States and the Australian Government, let us assume for the sake of argument that 10 years have elapsed. We will also assume that there is an inflation rate of 5 per cent per annum in the first instance, 10 per cent per annum in the second instance and 1 5 per cent per annum in the third instance over those 10 years. Now, after 10 years with an inflation rate of 5 per cent per annum the Australian Government employee who retires at age 65 on a $ 13,000 a year salary, would be receiving then $13,717. If we take the best of the States we would have to go to New South Wales, where his counterpart would be receiving $17,866- some $4,000 a year more than the Australian Government employee. This is brought about of course by the application of the consumer price index to the total pension and not only to the Government financed section. The very worst State in those circumstances would be Western Australia where instead of receiving the $13,717 that the Australian Government employee would receive the Western Aus.tralian would be receiving $12,960. So he is only marginally behind. The ex-public servant from the other States would be in a much better position than is the Australian Government employee. 
To move to the area where we assume that inflation is at the rate of 10 per cent per annum, the Australian Government employee there receives $20,303 per annum whereas in New South Wales his counterpart receives $28,448. Again, the worst State in this instance is Western Australia where the figure is $20,636. If we assume that inflation is at the rate of 15 per cent per annum then after 10 years the Australian Government ex-employee will have received $30,211.  His  counterpart in New South Wales would be starting to look at a sum totalling $44,372. It is about a 46 per cent increase over what his counterpart in the Australian Government would receive. Under no circumstances can it be said that the Australian Government public servant is being featherbedded in this area or is in any way receiving something better than his counterparts in this area. 
If you want to start talking about what he receives compared to most members of the public who are not involved in superannuation schemes, of course he does better. Then of course he contributes towards it. Each pay period he makes his contribution towards his own pension. It is interesting to note, because these comparisons are being drawn a very large section of the Australian community, the working people of the Australian community, are not members of any superannuation fund at all and, as I have already stated, to try to compare the public servant with those people is to make a wrong comparison. There is indeed a need, in my opinion, for a national superannuation fund. I know that somebody from the other side is going to stand up and say: 'Your mob were in office for 3 years and did not do anything about it'. We also had reasons why a lot of things we wanted done could not get done, principally due to a hostile Senate where some backward people from the Liberal and National Country Parties set about frustrating all of the progressive legislation that the Labor Party introduced. 
If one cares to think about this national superannuation fund, the more you think about it the better it looks and the more one can see the need for it. I think that the debate on this Bill will highlight, more than anything else, the need for that fund. I have to mention one of many reasons to complain about the present legislation. I know the attitude of the unions in this. They know that it is the best they are going to get and they are prepared to take it rather than put up with the scheme as it exists. It seems to me a backward step not to give the people the right or the opportunity to retire at age 60 rather then enforcing them to work on until age 65. 
The honourable member for Ballaarat raised the point that the Public Service Act does not provide for that contingency. I do not think that is much of a reason or much of an excuse either, because the Public Service Act is only an Act of this Parliament and at any time can be changed by this Parliament. I should prefer to see the situation arise where people had the opportunity to leave their employment at age 60 rather than being forced to carry on to age 65. There are a variety of reasons for that, not the least being, as has already been mentioned, that there is a need to have a younger Public Service to encourage younger people to come in, to encourage people to retire at the other end. I do not dispute that. It has also to be understood that in the light of other debates that have been held in this place quite recently, it is very clear that as time goes on in Australia, and indeed in the industrialised world, there is going to be a need for people to work fewer hours a day, fewer days in a week, fewer weeks in a year and certainly fewer years out of their lives. There will be a trend towards shorter working weeks and earlier retirement. In my view that is a very good move and a progressive move. This Government, with the Bill that it has brought in, has not moved in that direction at aU. It has rather gone the other way and just insists that people keep on working until they are 65. 
There are of course many good features about the Bill, and I think not the least of these is the fact that it is rather embracing, it sweeps in the superannuation scheme people who normally would not have the benefit of belonging to a superannuation scheme. Only very recently I learnt of a person whom I think everybody would regard as being a public servant of some repute and would regard as being a permanent public servant; but because of an illness that was suffered at an earlier time this person is denied the opportunity of belonging to the superannuation scheme and must belong to the provident fund. There is a difference between the two; the benefits of the superannuation scheme are better. The amendments bring such people into the superannuation scheme. Just in passing, I make some reference to the remarks made by the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  who I understand said that prior to coming to this place he was a public servant, I understand he was with the Treasury.  His  entrance into this House, judging by his remarks in this debate, did not enhance the House at all. After listening to the very conservative attitude that he took towards things, I am quite sure that he did the Treasury a service by leaving it to come here. He was most unhappy that the Public Service was cast in a pacesetter role, as he described it, by the Whitlam Government. I do not know whether he has ever taken the trouble to study the Public Service. I am not sure what he meant by using the term 'pacesetter' but he would find that in the area of working conditions, the Public Service certainly has been to the front except as regards pay. I understand that public servants were the first people in Australia to receive paid annual leave, and this was so for a long time. It is only in recent years that the community caught up with them. 
The honourable member for Ballaarat spoke about the Labor scheme being wildly extravagant. I do not know what he meant by that because all the costing I had relating to the Labor Party's superannuation scheme left me with the distinct impression that it would cost the Government no more that the existing scheme. In his mad endeavour to have a sideswipe at the Labor Party, he talked about the Labor Party increasing interest rates on home loans. Clearly, he has not seen the front page of the Melbourne  Herald  tonight. It has been brought home very forcibly to me that since 13 December the Labor Party no longer sits on the Treasury benches but the front page of the Melbourne  Herald  tonight indicts those who sit there now. During the last election campaign and what led up to it the Government and its supporters put out spurious propaganda to push their own cause and now they stand indicted. Two matter were raised. One is an increase in interest rates by establishments that lend money for home building and the other is a demand to devalue the currency. These are things that are not going to help the ordinary battlers in this country one little bit and the Government is responsible. 
The honourable member for Ballaarat also mentioned minor nit-picking points raised by Opposition members. I thought the purpose of a debate in this House was to point out either real or imagined problems in legislation and for judgment to be passed on that basis. He then went into a great flight of fancy about the portability of wives' pensions. I do not know the sort of women that the honourable member associates with and I am not reflecting on anybody who is related to him but from the way he described people to the House one would think that we had a community of 'Bluebeards' in which women went around accumulating husbands who were eligible for a Government pension and then disposed of them. I do not think he meant that but if he cares to read his speech tomorrow he will find, quite clearly, that that is the inference. 
I agree with the portability of the wives' pension. I see absolutely nothing wrong with it. I do not think it is any more than giving a woman her right. Any pension a woman receives upon the demise of her husband in my view is her right. He contributed towards it and it belongs to her. I cannot agree that a change in marital status should disadvantage a woman. Of course it should go with her. If we had a pipeline to heaven and were able to contact her former husband I am sure that he would agree that she should take it with her at all times. I know that that would be my wish for my wife. 
All in all, this Superannuation Bill is the best of a bad job but it is nowhere near as good as the proposition the Labor Party put forward. The Labor Party proposition was not as costly as people who cannot add up would care to make it sound. The Bill before us is the best of all things that are not good. It is the best the Liberal Party can put up. I support the amendment and I am very disappointed that at an earlier time the previous Parliament could not see its way clear to give to the Australian Government's public servants the justice they deserve. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
Tonight we are debating a ministerial statement on motor vehicle policy. For a change it seems that there is some degree of unanimity on both sides of the House as to what should be happening in the motor vehicle industry. I find the statement contains some contradictions. In one part it speaks of a freedom of choice to consumers, that is of cars, and it speaks of the desire of consumers to have access to reasonably priced cars. Then it sets about virtually establishing in Australia 5 manufacturers to service a market of 500 000 units a year. Then it speaks of economies of scale. How the industry will weld all those things together and give what the Government clearly wants to give- that is, a reasonable priced car for the people- I am blessed if I know. It seems to me that the whole statement, if it does nothing else, proves that the free enterprise system does not work. Putting people in the market place will not reduce prices but will increase them. That is exactly what this whole plan seems to be doing. 
As I understand it, the difficulty seems to have arisen because 3 manufacturers in Australia- the Ford Motor Co of Australia, General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd and Chrysler Australia Ltdhave been hell bent on building 6-cylinder motor vehicles that would normally be called family cars, when clearly the consumer was looking for something other than that. He was looking for a smaller but more economical vehicle- a 4- cylinder car for preference- than those which were being basically produced by the 3 companies. Although they in turn made smaller, 4- cylinder cars, they seemed to promote more their larger, 6-cylinder and 8-cylinder cars which were not overly popular with the Australian people. That is not a phenomenon that grew overnight. It had been developing over a period. To the best of my knowledge, it was known to the manufacturers. I suppose one could almost liken the position to the position of people who make pies. If they keep on making apricot pies when the community shows a clear desire to eat meat pies, clearly they will put themselves out of business. 
I do not think Australian consumers buy Japanese cars because of any mad love affair with the Japanese or because the Japanese cars are necessarily better than cars manufactured in Australia. The Japanese cars are certainly promoted to a better extent. I do not knock the Australian content. 
-Those sitting in cocky 's corner are telling me that the Japanese cars are better. I have never owned one. I have always owned Australian made cars and have been quite satisfied with them. The preference of the Australian consumer clearly is toward a smaller vehicle. The imported cars are certainly promoted better. 
-I am assured once again that they are of better manufacture. The 3 Australian manufacturers have done nothing, in my view, to cater for the market or for the demand of the consumer. The proposed consortium to manufacture the 4-cylinder engines certainly comes into line with the line of thinking on the part of at least one Australian manufacturerChrysler. There is an indication that another large manufacturer, General Motors, will probably build its own 4-cylinder engine anyhow, without joining the consortium. I am not quite sure where the Ford Company stands. It has a plant in my electorate. It is an assembly plant. It does not actually manufacture things there. They are manufactured in the Corio electorate. The components are brought in. If there is a change in the plan as is proposed, it probably will not have a great effect on the plant at Broadmeadows. It will have an effect on people outside that area. Certainly the Ford Company at Geelong, where panels are pressed and engines are made, would be affected. It would certainly have an effect on those who supply the component parts for the assembly of Ford motor cars at Broadmeadows. If I understand the whole situation properly, they are the people at whom the statement is aimed. It is made in an endeavour to encourage continued participation by component manufacture and perhaps even to encourage more companies such as the Nissan and Datsun companies to set themselves up in Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I am at a bit of a disadvantage. I had a document which I wished to incorporate in  Hansard.  I showed it to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and he has insisted on reading it before agreeing to it being incorporated. I need the document to refresh my mind. I am at something of a disadvantage because of the action of the Minister.  Mr Speaker,  there is a lot of conversation coming from the Government side of the chamber. Do I have the floor? 
-I address my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The Minister will recall that the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange cited at least one case of a financial journalist, who later became a partner in a stockbroking firm, who received a placement of shares in a private issue by a survey and mining company. He will recall also that the Committee's report was extremely critical of that practice. What measures now exist or have been proposed to discourage the practice? 
-I thank the House. I take the point. I realise that in the past honourable members have attempted to have copious documents incorporated in  Hansard.  I appreciate the technical difficulties involved. I thank the House for permission to incorporate the document in  Hansard  provided it is technically possible to do so. It is important that this submission be recorded in  Hansard,  in my view, because never before have I seen a document that sets out so well and so capably the failure of and the vacuum that exists in all IAC, or in earlier times the Tariff Board as it was then known, considerations of restructuring of industry. This document will be of great value to the House because not only today but also as time goes on- and as part and parcel of the matter that this House debated quite recently- there will be a greater  need in the future for the relocation of work people and for the retraining of work people to be taken into account when this House, and through it the Government of this country, endeavours to set down guidelines for manufacturing industries in this country. 
It is very difficult, I suppose, to say that one entirely disagrees with the ministerial statement and I do not attempt to do that. There are of course some very good points in it. There are some points that have not been included. I have mentioned those. They worry me because Australian work people are involved and it is those people who seem to be the ones who are going to bear the cost of this plan. It is for those reasons that I have made my point. I am quite satisfied with that and I thank the House. 
There are a couple of matters that I would like to raise in the House this evening. I would like to digress for one moment to comment on the speech made by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  I congratulate him on raising this matter. I am sure that the honourable member is sincere. I trust that his sincerity will be carried through and, rather than adopting a violent antiSoviet position, as he seems to be adopting, he will, over the next period available to him in this House, which I understand will be before the next general election, treat us to his knowledge on the undemocratic practices in all countries. He was reading to us from a document which I believe was somewhat akin to the constitution of the Soviet Union. I must have been not listening to the start because I thought he was reading from the Platform of the Liberal Party of Australia. 
The matters which I want to raise tonight deal with the Children's Commission, particularly as it affects organisations in my electorate. One of the organisations affected is the Melton Community Resource Centre. Melton is a satellite town of some 1 1 000 people. It is quite remote from the city of Melbourne. It is some 25 miles from the city of Melbourne and is separated from Melbourne by broad acres. This area is a very newly developed area. The area has existed for a long time, but it grew very rapidly over the last 6 years. The community, with funding from the Australian Government since 1972, has set up this organisation known as the Melton Community Resource Centre. The function of the Centre is to fill needs in the community that did not exist prior to its establishment. It provides a focal point where social security officers can call and meet members of the community. Commonwealth Employment Service people visit the area regularly. People from the Social Welfare Department, which is a State organisation in Victoria, visit there regularly. The Centre deals principally with children. In the last year its funding was $27,600 from the Australian Assistance Plan, which enabled it to provide a detached youth worker and an information bureau, to pay a share of the secretary's salary and to meet administration and capital costs. 
From the Children's Commission it received $47,700, which allowed for renovations to the building, equipment for the toy library, materials, salaries and administration costs. That was only for the neighbourhood centre. The Community Resource Centre runs an out of school program, for which it received $17,750. That enabled it to purchase a caravan and equipment, and to pay salaries and administration costs. It runs a family day care program, for which it received $6,000. In total it received from the Children's Commission $64,450. These programs are of great popularity in this small community. Because there is a need on the part of some wives and mothers in the area to work, the Centre has one person who co-ordinates. She has a rather unusual function.  Her  job is to find women willing to look after the children of working mothers. Generally such women find her. The working mothers, through economic necessity, need to work. They have small children and have a requirement to have the children cared for during the day. This person finds in the community women who are not working and who will care for the children of the mothers who work. The 2 women are introduced. From then on they make their own arrangements. So the children of the working mothers are cared for in another mother's home, along with the other mother's children. This program is costing the Australian Government nothing more than the salary of the person who makes the introductions. 
The reason I raise these matters is that these people who fill a very real need and who provide a very real service are concerned. They can gain no information as to what will happen after 30 June this year. I admit complete failure in my endeavours to find out for them what sort of funding will be available in the coming financial year. The Centre requires from the Children's Commission after 30 June this year $46,000. That might be said to be a large sum. When one looks at the way in which it is spent in the neighbourhood centre, it is not a large sum. The Centre provides for people newly moved into the area. People move into this area very quickly. They have no friends and no relatives in the area. Because it is a new, remote area all sorts of social problems arise. The Community Resource Centre provides a drop-in place where they can obtain the sort of information that they want. It is a great source of information. Looking through the list of services it provides, I see that it has a qualified counsellor on breast feeding to assist young mothers. It has a library. The municipality does not have one. It is not a very large library, but it is there. 
The Centre has a service 'What to do when your housework is through'. It has information sheets which advise the people in the area of Melton as to the sort of community facilities which are available to them. I suppose one could say it is some sort of sign board. It is a neighbourhood type of centre which requires only $24,500 to maintain it for the next year. Its out of school program, which cares for children who are generally called latch key children because their parents work, cares for such children after school. There is a need for their parents to work. I do not think anybody works simply to wear out his old clothes. The Centre provides a service. To do that requires only $15,000. The family day care program requires only the rather small amount of $6,500. There is a real community spirit involved. Even the adventure playground that the children use after school was designed and constructed by the children. They shovelled mounds of earth. They set up their mounds. They place motor car tyres in them. It is a revelation to see the playground. I cannot expand too much on this subject because of the limited time available. I have raised it. I hope somebody takes some note of it. 
I continue in the same vein. I am dealing now with people who are establishing child care programs in their areas. I must now mention an organisation that is fostered by the Baptist Church in Dallas, a suburb of Melbourne. It is called the Dallas Welfare and Youth Services 
Organisation. This organisation set up a subidiary to care for children in the area. The parent body made inquiries of the Taxation Office. It found out that it could purchase things without having to pay sales tax. On this basis it sent a budget to the Children's Commission. It believed that it would not have to pay sales tax. It was given verbal advice to this effect. It now has a letter from the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation which advises that it must pay sales tax. I find it rather anomalous that the Australian Government is funding 100 per cent the Organisation's program, through the Children's Commission. When it purchases equipment with funds provided by the Australian Government it is obliged to pay sales tax. That becomes a revenue back to the Australian Government. There are 2 things. Either the grant made available to it is such that $1 is not worth $1 but is worth $1 less the sales tax payable on the equipment and it has budgeted on not having to pay sales tax and now it finds out it must pay sales tax or it can purchase less equipment. 
I regret that I did not have the opportunity to speak to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on this matter today. It was brought to my attention only today. I will certainly take the opportunity to speak with him privately tomorrow. If I had raised the matter with him he would have done me the honour of being present in the House to hear what I had to say. I know he is a very courteous gentleman. I assure the House that I will raise it with him tomorrow. I simply make the point that I believe it is completely anomalous that the Australian Government should make funds available to an organisation such as this for community activities and, when it purchases equipment with the money made available, should charge it sales tax on the equipment that it buys. I firmly belive that there should be an exemption on such equipment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr RUDDOCK (Parramatta)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I regret that the honourable member for Burke interpreted my remarks earlier as being an attack in isolation on the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. If he had been listening to the introduction to my speech he would have heard specific reference to India, Indonesia and a number of other countries which might be said to be in a different bloc from the Soviet Union. I hope that the honourable member will make some inquiries about Amnesty Internationalthe parliamentary group in particularand the attitude of some of his colleagues who so graciously signed the petition that was initiated by the Amnesty group in the Parliament. I would also like to draw his attention to the fact that it was not so long ago that the parliamentary group circulated a petition which was directed to General Pinochet, the leader of Chile, and which defended a communist senator-  Senator Montes-  who was in gaol. 
-Has the Department of the Treasury provided the Treasurer with the usual forecasts of the level of unemployment in coming quarters? What is the Treasurer's present best estimate of the level of unemployment, in seasonally adjusted terms, at the end of this year? Is it a fact that the Government expects the level of seasonally adjusted unemployment to rise during the next 12 months or, at the very best, to remain constant? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Has a directive been issued by him or his Department that recipients of unemployment benefit will no longer be eligible, if they refuse employment because the prospective employer refuses to pay award rates of pay. 
There has been a very interesting debate so far on these 2 Appropriation Bills. However, because the field is so broad not all of it has been canvassed. With all humility I would like to make my contribution to the debate. When introducing these Bills the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made great play about alleged savings being made by this Government. Surely the Treasurer knows that each alleged saving carries with it a cost. Economists, Treasurers and Treasury officials all have access to electronic calculators and therefore can readily go through the arithmetical exercises needed to make it appear that money is being saved. For example, if the Government cut out the pensioner funeral benefit worth only $40 to each pensioner, its own list of expenditure would be pruned by $ 1.7m in a full year. These are the sorts of exercises now being conducted on the instruction of the mingiest Prime Minister Australia has ever had. 
These savings have social costs. It is well known that public works not yet commenced have been indefinitely deferred. I have extreme difficulty following the tortuous so-called logic of this worst and meanest Government of all time. Surely the Government is aware that, if not all, at least the greatest portion of its public works are carried out by private contractors who for the information of this conservative Government employ people and use materials and services which in turn require a workforce to provide them. Furthermore the completion of a public work means another asset for Australia. By no stretch of the imagination can it be said that the works are unnecessary or will remain unused after completion. There is one case in point. I can remind the House of a reference to the Public Works Committee in 1974 to inquire into and recommend on the need for a new building at Yalambie in Victoria to house the Australian Radiation Laboratory. The existing conditions under which the employees must work are deplorable. The Laboratory is scattered over a number of buildings in the city of Melbourneone is at Melbourne University and another at a munitions building at Maribyrnong. The buildings in the city ought to be demolished. The University needs the space being used there. The city buildings are convened offices, warehouses and an old jam factory. Considering the important and vital tasks being performed there, no person with any understanding of efficient and safe working conditions would allow the laboratory to continue operating there. 
It would seem that somebody is pretty sensitive about this laboratory, because I received handwritten letters urging me to ensure that action was taken to hasten the commencement of the building at Yalambie. I made inquiries and was told that the commencement had been deferred indefinitely. Imagine my surprise when I then received a standard typewritten duplicated letter from those who first wrote to me saying, in effect: 'Forget my letter to you. I have now been told everything is in hand'. It seems that somebody is playing ducks and drakes with the staff of the Australian Radiation Laboratory, and somebody is not being told the truth. I only hope that I am not that somebody. 
I return to the public works scene. The Prime Minister's preoccupation with cutting back expenditure has brought about an apparent complete cessation of planning and designing of new works. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  earlier this evening mentioned that technicians are not being trained because instructions have been issued not to take on staff. He explained that at some future time this will cause a problem. Exactly the same thing applies with buildings and public works. If they are not proceeded with on a planned basis, at some time in the future they will cause a problem. The previous Government either had referred or intended to refer works to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation. Since the change of government no more has been heard of these projects. I am sure that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  must be most disappointed that the Government he supports is the government which as yet has not referred the Australian Antarctic Division's headquarters at Hobart to the Public Works Committee. Before his election to this House he was busy claiming to have persuaded the Labor Government to hold a hearing in Hobart. Apparently he does not have the same sort of influence with the present Government. 
In my experience I have found the departments of the Government very adept and aware of the need for planning for future development. Therefore the programs must proceed. Otherwise, if the pipeline is clogged now, one of two things will happen in the future. Either the pipeline will suddenly gush forth and the system will not be able to cope with it or else provision of needed services to the community will be delayed. All that is required now is that the Parliament refer expected works, the details of which are known, to the Public Works Committee so that the tedious work of conducting public hearings can be completed in some degree of leisure by the Committee. The report of the Committee commits the Government to nothing. All that the Committee does is recommend, and the Government must take the decision to spend at the appropriate time. 
I repeat that I am at a complete loss to follow the reasoning of this untrustworthy Government. Tonight the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  raised the future of the Australian Assistance Plan, the AAP.  His  fear for its future is shared by myself and the residents of the western and north-western regions of Melbourne. The residents of Melton and those responsible for the management and operation of the Melton Community Resource Centre are particularly concerned about the fate of a reasonably recently established service for the people of this delightful satellite town only some 30 kilometres from Melbourne. I have already raised this issue in the House and tonight I want to elaborate and expand on the matter. 
Melton has a population of approximately 1 1 000 people, 75 per cent of whom are under 35 years of age, with approximately 2300 children under age five. Many of the residents are lonely, isolated from their families and friends, uncertain and insecure. Because of these factors- they are compounded because Melton is the fastest growing area in the Melbourne metropolisprograms have been initiated and are proving very popular considering that the Centre has only been operating for less than a year. Let me give a brief outline of the programs. There is a neighbourhood centre funded by the Children's Commission to facilitate child care programs, an after-school program funded by the Children's Commission, family day care funded by the Children's Commission which arranges for children to be cared for in private homes, and an information bureau and youth worker both funded by the Australian Assistance Plan and both serving a useful purpose. Of course the ongoing operation and administration of the Centre are funded by the Australian Assistance Plan. 
This House must consider the future of these schemes. Unless funds are supplied after 30 June by the Australian Government these worthwhile schemes will wither and die, to the detriment of the community generally. Along with the cutback in spending on the Australian Assistance Plan, the Children's Commission, area improvement programs and grants to local government, there is a belief in the community that other areas of spending will be severely cut back. On Thursday of last week many people travelled to Canberra because of their concern about future funding for education. Many honourable members, especially those on the Government side, would have seen and spoken with these people. I hope honourable members opposite were honest enough to explain to these people that they would support cuts in spending on education. Today many pensioners came to Canberra, and again honourable members spoke to them. I hope that honourable members on the Government side told them that they would support cut backs in the social security expenditure in the Budget. Tomorrow or the week after next who knows what groups will come to Canberra and press their case. If honourable members opposite stand by what they have told the people with whom they have spoken, then the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Treasurer will have one hell of a time getting their Budget through this House and the Senate. 
Later this year we will see who will stand up and be counted. I believe it is dishonest to go to the electorate and claim to support retaining or improving services and reducing taxation. It is not only dishonest but it is also impossible. Yet that is what we are fed. Nobody really receives anything for nothing in this world. If we are to receive the services we need and the services we want, of course they have to be paid for by us. Where the Australian Labor Party differs from the Liberal Party is that the Labor Party believes that community services should be provided by the Australian Government because then everyone pays according to his capacity to pay. If the services are provided by State or local government or private enterprise, the burden will fall heaviest on the weak because the charge will be equal regardless of income, unless of course the States are to be allowed to re-enter the personal taxation field. Clearly, the voters of New South Wales were afraid of this last Saturday when they voted so strongly against the LiberalCounty Party coalition there. 
It would be a tragedy if spending on education were to be decreased when there is still so much more to be done in this very important area. One area of education which is being severely restricted now is union training. The Labor Government established the Australian Council for 
Union Training with the concurrence of the then Opposition. The Council has set about its task with efficiency and knowledge and has established a centre in each of the States ' capital cities. Plans were drawn up and work was commenced on the construction of a national college at Wodonga, which is appropriately named the Clyde Cameron College. Regrettably, the Labor Government made some pruning of the Council 's budget for this year, but the Council felt it could probably live within the amount provided by deferring some work. But the ceiling placed on staff by the present Government has really jammed the works. The College at Wodonga is not yet operating, and indeed some of the centres in the States are not operating fully yet. In other words, the field of union training is still developing and therefore growing. When the staff ceiling was introduced the Council had 41 staff members. The ceiling was put at 40- and the Clyde Cameron College not yet open. The Prime Minister did relent and allowed a further 2 staff, who were readily placed. Unless there is a dramatic and unexpected increase in students probably there will be no further substantial increase in staff until the Clyde Cameron College opens. Surely nobody would agree that millions of dollars should be spent on a college which is left vacant and unused because the Council is refused permission to engage staff. The Council is hopeful that reason and sanity will prevail and the staff needed to operate this very important and long neglected aspect of education will be recruited and trained. 
Before it is too late the Government should cease to be mesmerised by the deficit and its own cheap politicking propaganda and endeavour to understand what is really happening in all Western-type economies. The Government is coming to realise that it cannot keep the promises it made to the electorate. The electorate is also coming to realise this and that is why people came to Canberra in such large numbers last Thursday. Without exception these people named schools, certainly in my area and I presume in every other electorate, where attention was badly needed and where even the enormous funds that had been made available by the Labor Government in its 3 short years in office had been put to use, but the schools and the areas have grown so large that primary schools with over 1000 students in them are unable to be managed without proper facilities. It is quite right that teachers and parents ought to be concerned about that sort of situation. It is quite right and proper that they should come and put their case to the Government to ensure that there is no cut back in spending. It was a little incongruous, I thought, for these people to speak with members of the Opposition when we are not in a position to control the purse strings. These people can rely on us at any time to raise these issues in this House. I am sure that they are aware that in the last Budget some $ 1,900m was made available for education in Australia and this quadrupled the amount that had been made available in the 3 years prior to that. 
Whilst all of these things are important one very important aspect- a further one as far as I am concerned- is financing for local government because the city in which I live has received out of the Grants Commission over the last 2 years in excess of over $lm as part of a topping up operation. There is great fear in the minds of people who live in that city that an equivalent sum will not be made available to it next year. It is not an affluent area. It is a rapidly growing area. It is a new area that has inherited no services. If a football ground is needed a football ground must be built. We do not use football grounds that were built by the last generation because there were no people living there a generation ago. So all things must be built. Moving into an area like that are people who are buying their homes. There are young people buying their homes. They are paying off their furniture and the things that they need in their home. They are making their way in the world. The wife is bearing children and rearing them and is not always able to work. If you were to say to these people who find a burden the amount that they are now paying in rates out of their weekly wage that they should in turn provide themselves with their own social welfare programs it would seem very incongruous. I support the proposition that only the Australian Government of all the levels of government in Australia is in the position of being able to assess people's capacity to pay whether they be individuals or groups of individuals, companies and the like. 
The municipality cannot assess people and their capacity to pay. The fellow who lives next door to me works as a draftsman. He has 6 children at school and is in a much worse position to pay rates on his house which is exactly the same as mine. He pays the same amount in rates. He is in a more difficult position to pay them than I. So therefore there ought to be that basic charge made for services provided by the municipality, but to provide the other services needed by the people who live in the municipality it is necessary to go to people's pay packets on their capacity to pay. Only the Australian Government can do this. 
If I understand the Government's attitude towards federalism now, it is that it intends to vacate that field and it intends to say that the States will fill the hiatus. I repeat that the States are not in a position to charge people on the basis of their capacity to pay unless they enter into the field of income taxation. I would oppose that most strongly. I am quite sure that my colleagues in the Labor Party would oppose it most strongly. For the information of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)-  I do not think he has quite worked this out yet- if that is the case, if there is this double taxation position as clearly the people of New South Wales accepted there is, then it is the people in the 4 smaller States that are going to feel that burden heaviest. I understand that there are elections in Tasmania and in Western Australia sometime next year so the people in those States will pass judgment on the financial policy of this Government too. 
It is important to maintain the Budget expenditure that has been provided for instead of going through the shoddy little exercise of trying to pretend that money has been saved here and there when, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, there is no saving without there being a cost. The saving is money; the cost is social. If the Government is going to be honest it also ought to talk about the cost of its savings. That might sound incongruous but it is true. The Government can stop paying unemployment relief to morrow. There is nothing to prevent it doing that but it is not prepared to do it because the cost of doing it would be too high. The price it would have to pay to save that much money would be too high. It would not be prepared to pay it. So for those reasons and a host of others that will be elaborated on by my colleagues, we have no opposition to the measures, of course, but we would like to see them more generously presented. 
It is rather interesting to hear what the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)- 
Motion ( by  Mr Donald  Cameron) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the House of what progress has been made by the United Nations envoy in continuing his mission to Timor? Following yesterday's farcical procedure to integrate Portuguese East Timor into Indonesia, has the Minister any information to suggest that the United Nations envoy will be deliberately obstructed by Indonesia in his endeavours to continue his mission? 
-In the years that I have been a member of this House I have never heard so much humbug as in the debate that has taken place here today. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  in support of his proposition to the House, quoted from rules and said that they were restrictive. Let me quote from some rules. 
Any member may be expelled or have his membership suspended for a prescribed period on the grounds that in the opinion of his branch, or of the State executive, or of the State council he has been guilty of disloyalty to the Party, its constitution or platform or of conduct gravely detrimental to the best interests of the Party. 
The Party to which those rules apply is the Liberal Party of Australia. The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  would leave the House with the impression that the Laurie Carmichaels and the John Halfpennys of this world are the people responsible for strikes of the sort the honourable member mentioned. Both those persons are of course self-confessed members of the Communist Party of Australia. In an answer to a question in this House on 19 August the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  named unions in which there were these alleged difficulties. They included the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists. I might interpolate to say that I am pleased that the honourable member for Ballaarat at least knows to which union the people in his area belong; it is a lot more than the honourable member for Casey knows because he cited the wrong union and he named the wrong union secretary. He said  Mr Slater  was the person involved. Actually it was a person named  Mr Rowlands.  The union involved is the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists, not the Australian Postal Workers Union. So we have got that straight. I do not know that the Federal Secretary of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation,  Mr Townsend,  would be terribly pleased if the honourable member advised him he was being led around by the nose by  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Halfpenny,  any more than would, I believe the Federal Secretary of the Australian Workers Union, for example, a fine radical organisation in some areas, or the Federal Secretary of the Federated Ironworkers Association. Incidentally, I do not suppose you are related to the gentleman, are you? I heard the honourable member for Ballaarat mention  Mr Short  in his broad, sweeping allegation about the Carmichaels and Halfpennys of this world leading people around by the nose. The honourable member embraced all those people in that statement. Another fine gentleman, a bastion of the trade union movement, whom he used to firm up his case was one John Mayne, the Federal  President  of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia. The honourable member quoted him as saying that the actions in this area would lead towards fascism. I am not surprised at  Mr Mayne  saying that because he would be the closest exponent of fascism in this country that I have ever met. 
Both the honourable member for Casey and the honourable member for Ballaarat have misrepresented the position. They have both claimed that it was entirely a political strike. They hang their hat on that one simply because it has been termed by the Press and by other people as a Medibank strike. Let us examine what it was all about. Through the actions of this Government the workers in this country were going to have their take-home pay reduced. They were going to have their take-home pay reduced by anything up to $6 or $10 a week because this Government decided to place a levy on them to pay for Medibank. If that is not an industrial matter, if the pay of workers is not an industrial matter so far as the unions are concernedneither of the previous speakers did explain to me how that can be termed a political matterthen I suppose all trade union matters are political, all matters that affect trade unionists are industrial. So there ought to be enough of that comment. 
The honourable member for Ballaarat talked about people in his area being fined. They have been dealt with by the local branch, and I think he said that. A penalty of $20 has been imposed. It has not been paid; no attempt has been made to collect it. Why? Because there is an avenue open for an appeal to the State council. It will be heard there. As I understand it, it can hardly be termed a fine if no attempt has been made to collect it. There has been a penalty imposed, but no attempt has been made to collect the money. The 2 members on the Government side talk today of the strike being a political strike. I have been led to believe that in the area represented by the honourable member for Ballaarat the person representing these people is none other than the Honourable Murray Byrne, an ex-Liberal member of Parliament from Victoria. He has taken up the case. It has been raised only by the Liberals, yet it is always the trade union movement that is blamed for matters becoming political matters. If members of political parties are not political when they take up industrial issues then I think we are losing our sense of values. 
If we are to talk about people standing over other people within organisations, it must be known in this House that in New South Wales the legal profession sat down as a body and threatened to destroy the future careers of young members of the legal profession in New South Wales if they had the temerity to join in demonstrations against the Governor-General. Can somebody explain to me the difference between that action and the action about which honourable members opposite are complaining, where a duly constituted body, an executive of a union, took action under the union's rules? I remind honourable members opposite that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act insists that all rules of all unions be vetted and ratified by the Registrar of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. So no union can write its own rules. Unions can only prepare the rules, and before they become law they must satisfy the Registrar. So do not leave the false impression with the people listening to this debate that unions write their own rules without restriction. They are vetted by a court, they are approved by a court, and that is stated quite clearly in the Act. All the rules having been ratified, the rules then provide that a union shall have a managing body, and due to the inability of members being able to take action and decide a question the managing body shall have the right to govern. That right was exercised in June and July of this year. Yet this Government denies unions the right to abide by their own rules. 
As I said when I started this speech, this whole discussion is a lot of humbug. It has been built up around an attack on the trade union movement by people who stand up and in their first platitudes say 'Oh, I believe that there ought to be a trade union movement', and then proceed to destroy the reasons why there ought to be one. They would like tame-cat unions. They would like unions to do exactly what honourable members opposite in their own conservative way want done. They would stifle progressiveness wherever it arose. I can understand the reluctance of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to engage in this debate. He has got himself a couple of lightweight new boys to put up the proposition and he has very judiciously stayed away from the whole question. As I understand it, the honourable member for Casey does have a history in industrial relations. He was the secretary, as I understand it, to the  Speaker  when he was the Minister for Labor and National Service. He was also an industrial officer before becoming a member of this House. Prior to that he was. also an industrial officer to the managing director of one of the largest, in fact the largest, manufacturing concern in Australia. I suppose that with that sort of background in industrial relations he is well equipped for union bashing, he is well equipped to support scabs. 
As I pointed out earlier, the whole area of Medibank is an area in which the take-home pay of workers is to be reduced. The Government has gone a step further because the unions then used initiative and approached companies on the question of assisting workers in paying the health insurance levy. Active steps were taken to deter companies from taking even that sort of action. ' So there is a definite attempt on the part of the Government to reduce the take-home pay of employees. When the employees stand up for their rights, their insistence that this should not happen, they then have to suffer a scurrilous attack in this House by 2 people who would not even know what a trade union movement is. Those 2 people gave their own impression of these things. They left the impression with everybody that the Carmichaels and the Halfpennys are running the trade union movement in this country. Of course, nothing could be further from the truth. Every union is controlled by a committee of management and not just one person. That committee of management does not consist only of members of the Communist Party; it consists of members of all political parties, as honourable members opposite would know. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  mentioned the shipbuilding industry in Australia. A debate took place on that matter in this House today. It is very pleasing to see how effective the Opposition is in having shipbuilding retained in Australia because I understand that the Japanese company, Mitsui, has already announced that it refuses to build the four 1 5 000 tonne bulk carriers until things improve in Australia. It is pretty obvious from that that the Japanese have a greater understanding of the problems associated with shipbuilding than does in fact the Australian Government, as shown in this chamber this afternoon. 
This Budget would have to go down in history as the greatest fraud perpetrated on the Australian people by this fraudulent Government. The men of straw who composed this deceptive document and especially the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  who seems to have as much difficulty as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and everyone else in understanding it, have exposed for all to see the tactics they intend to employ to achieve their ultimate strategy. Obviously, the Government intends to reduce living standards until its friends in manufacturing industry can compete with such advanced and progressive places as Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea. The 
Government clearly wishes to import into Australia the poverty of the masses in those countries. It is the start of a massive transfer from wages to profits. 
The next step in this insidious scheme is to smash the trade unions of this country. Perhaps not every trade union is at risk because the tame cat unions will be allowed to continue to show the rest of the world that our people have freedom to join industrial organisations. The unions that do their job and improve the lot of their members will be smashed beyond repair by the cynical increase of the numbers of unemployed in our community. Any attempt to forecast the number of unemployed must be a guess as the full implications of the Budget are yet to be revealed or felt by the community. However, only today at question time the Treasurer conceded that in June 1977 unemployment in this country will be much higher than it is in 1976. Having achieved both these positions one wonders what will come next. Nobody can deny that in recent years unemployment in Australia has increased- as, indeed, it has increased in every manufacturing country. The difference, of course, is that the Labor Government's approach was to endeavour to share the wealth created by those who were not required to manufacture the goods we need or provide the services we demand. These people- men and women, young and old- were not callously used as ammunition to try to smash the trade union movement. 
The attitude of the Liberal and Country Party members was to refer to these unfortunate people as dole bludgers. In their maniacal desire to obtain power they were prepared to sink to any depth. When this Budget starts to bite and the cynical and deliberate tactic of increasing the number of people unemployed is manifest, will those honourable gentlemen refer to these victims as dole bludgers? Will adequate social security payment be made to them or will we see a return to the soup kitchens? After all, how can you whip up the men and women unable to obtain work to accept work at lower rates of pay, then work extra hours at ordinary rates of pay? How can you cow the ordinary union member and incite him to resist attempts to maintain his living standards and to actively discourage him from seeking any share of increase in wealth which he alone creates? The answer, briefly, is to ensure that outside each factory gate, office and shop door, there is a large number of people seeking work. The tactic is transparent and obvious: Place social stigma on those unemployed, call them dole bludgers and constantly remind those in employment that they are all candidates for unemployment benefits if they do not toe the line. 
Apart from this inhuman approach to the smashing of trade unions and reduction of living standards, we should look even further at the side effects of such medication. There seems to be great conflict as to whether we are to see an investment led or consumer-led recovery. The Government seems hellbent on investment but manufacturers in my electorate cannot enlighten me as to how investment in new capital goods will improve the economy. Their existing equipment is not used to capacity and unless it is not economical to maintain it, they have no intention of buying new machines. If they need new machines, they will buy them, investment allowance or not. Clearly the investment allowance must be meant for another sector. I will return to that point later. It is obvious that if things are going to be made, things have to be sold; therefore, manufacturers can put in as much equipment as they like but if they are not going to make things that can be sold, they are wasting their time. In other words, there is a need to increase consumer demand. The Treasurer, in his speech to this House on 17 August, said: 
Businessmen will emerge further from their shellholes . . . 
Shell-holes indeed! Is the Treasurer shell shocked himself?  . . . and start buying plant, equipment and new buildings, re-stocking and taking on new workers only if the uncertainty wrought by runaway inflation can be removed from their calculations and profits again begin to represent a reasonable rate of return. 
That was said more than a week ago. In this morning's Melbourne  Age  there is a headline very easy to read: 'No post-Budget Boost, Report Big Stores, Car Men. Retailers See No Recovery. ' The article states: 
The state of business in retailing and car selling is grimwith the short term outlook for more of the same. 
Together the 2 areas represent the keystone of the economy. 
A Business Age survey yesterday showed that last week's Federal Budget has had no impact on retail sales. 
It also shows that major retailers believe they have had depressed real returns since the end of the March quarter. 
Many also believe consumer confidence is a long way from being restored and fears of inflation will continue to lead people into increasing their bank deposits rather than spending. 
In the long term they are hoping- rather than expectingthat the Budget will restore consumer confidence. 
But there were no forecasts yesterday on when that renewed confidence would show through in higher sales. 
The article also states: 
The Business Age survey covered department stores, chain stores, prestige traders and supermarkets in both general retailing and food, as well as car sales. 
If that article is true, and I have no reason to doubt it, the very things that keep the wheels of industry turning are the things they are manufacturing; yet the retailers, who are the only outlet to the consumer, do not see any real prospect in sight for consumer demand to continue or for there to be any increase in it. Savings bank deposits at the moment are at an all-time high. They are being maintained. Each year sees an increase in deposits- money going in but not coming out. I wonder whether the Treasurer or his advisers have ever pondered that aspect. Are we a nation of money hoarders? Are we all so wealthy that we can afford almost $400 for each man, woman and child in Australia, to be locked up in savings accounts? Do most of the people in Australia have as many goods as they require? Are they only purchasing necessities, or are most people unsure of their future? 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-When the sitting was suspended I was talking about economic recovery and the doubts that exist in people's minds as to the future. Deposits in savings bank accounts are at an all-time high. There is no doubt in my mind that because the people of Australia are unsure of their future, that is their position so far as employment is concerned, they are like the squirrel and are hoarding against the future. I believe that is the case, and unless this Government can restore confidence an increase in consumption will not occur and a number of manufacturing concerns will continue working below full capacity. This gloomy budget does nothing to dispel that uncertainty. In fact it aggravates the doubts held by the potential consumers. 
Returning to encouragement for investment, it is interesting to have a look at the largesse bestowed by this Government on its friends, its financial supporters. Mining companies and oil companies are the major beneficiaries of blatent handouts. Another group of some significance is the  de facto  farmers of Collins Street and Pitt Street. Miners of minerals, hardly the poorest section of the community, are to receive $60m as a direct payment brought about by a complicated system of taxation allowances- not a bad sort of payback by anyone's standards. Will the men who perform the work in the mines benefit from this handout ? I would be most surprised if the unionists who work in those mines receive any increase in their living standards; in fact I would believe the reverse would be the case. The poor impoverished oil companies such as Shell and Esso, which are both trying to decide which of the companies that they own they will sell to make ends meet, are to be released from paying a levy of $2 per barrel on each barrel of ofl produced. I wonder whether this cost saving will be passed on to consumers; or will it just be $2 straight into the pocket of the explorers. 
The third group which unequivocally supports this fraudulent Government is the professional people who use farming as a hobby and as a tax dodge. The so-called income equalisation scheme is another backhander. Where was the National Country Party when this provision was popped up? Where were the so-called champions of the battler on the land? No genuine farmer will be able to participate in this taxation dodge. The battler hardly owns his farm now; the  de facto  owner is the bank or the pastoral company which holds the mortgage. If the farmer cannot earn enough to clear his mortgage, how can he ever set aside portion of his income to accummulate a fund which attracts a lower rate of taxation when it is drawn? The Prime Minister and his farmer Cabinet will benefit, and those who practice in Collins Street and Pitt Street will benefit also because they can plough into the fund up to $100,000 earned from any source. The words used are: 'income obtained by primary producers from farm or non-farm sources'. It seems to me like a nice little superannuation scheme for professional people posing as farmers. Not a zack is provided for the daylight to dark farmer who has been conned into believing that the chameleonic National Country Party is caring for his interests. The sooner the farmers break that spell, the sooner they will realise that only the Australian Labor Party can really improve their lot. For very existence the working farmer must turn away from the National Country Party- verily the Dorian Gray of political parties, and as happened to Dorian Gray, time has caught up with it. 
Reading the table at page 115 of the statements attached to the Budget Speech one is rather astounded at the estimates of income from general taxation revenue. One item that stands out more than others is 'Estimated Collections from Income Tax- Individuals (a) Payasyouearn'. They are the headings. Last year $7,0 19.7m was actually collected from employees. This year it is anticipated that $8,775m will be collected. That represents an increase of $ 1,755.3m over the previous year, or a 25 per cent increase. 'Income Tax- Individuals (b) Other Individuals', in other words from professionals and self-employed people, is expected to total $2,532m this year compared with $2, 199.7m actually collected last year. That is an increase of 15.1 per cent. Companies from which $2,522.8m was collected last year are expected to have collected from them this year $2,900m, an increase of $3 77.2m or 14.1 per cent. How interesting! The wage plug cops a 25 per cent increase and he has no farm to siphon it off. The self-employed and professional gets 15.1 per cent increase and the companies get only a 14.1 per cent increase- an interesting set of priorities. 
In his Budget Speech the Treasurer uses these words: 
The most important step in relieving the burden of taxationthe indexing of personal income tax- has already been taken ant', has been in operation for pay-as-you-earn purposes since 1 July. 
It represents perhaps the most significant reform of the personal income tax system in our time and certainly the most costly in terms of revenue forgone. 
I believe that our Treasurer is an honourable man, so if he tells us that what is being done is good for us we should not question him. But each night we should pray that he does not try to do too many good things for us because I doubt, whether we can afford it. It crosses my mind whether in his calculations he has taken into account the reduced number of taxpayers this year that his Budget will surely bring about. There will be more opportunity to elaborate on the cutbacks in real terms of funds available to various departments such as Health, Education, Environment, Housing and Community Development and Aboriginal Affairs. I believe that the backbench members on the Government side of the House will raise their voices in criticism during the Estimates debate. They are the ones who will have the odious task of explaining the impact to their electorates. I am told that those who rode in on the hysteria of 1975 and who hold their seats by narrow margins are already organising themselves into a fairly powerful and effective group. They are studying the successful coup of March 1975 to learn how to change leaders. They can be heard muttering: 'He will have to go. We can win without him but we cannot win with him'. It will be interesting to see the changes brought about by these young gentlemen from Western Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland who have decided that Canberra is a rather comfortable place. 
Manufacturing industry, without doubt, employs most people in Australia. I have heard it said in this House today and on previous occasions that any stimulus given to the mining industry will increase employment opportunities in Australia. Clearly that is a cliche. Anybody who knows anything about the mining industry will know that it is highly mechanised and that Australia does not even process the minerals that it extracts. They are exported in their natural state and therefore provide employment for people in other countries, certainly not in Australia. All that this Government has ever done is to place extra money into the pockets of the people who strongly supported it and paid for its election campaigns over the years, including the one in 1975. During the course of the Estimates debate there will be greater opportunity to speak of the effects on local government and the way in which no funds are being made available for sewerage projects in the bloated cities of Sydney and Melbourne which are becoming larger year by year and large areas of which are not sewered. This Government that seems to make some sort of a virtue out of lack of bureaucracy tells us it is going to continue with its funds for local government. However, rather than having one set of bureaucrats in Canberra it is now going to insist that every State- each of the 6 States- set up its own quota of bureaucrats to duplicate the work being done in Canberra. I believe that this comes under the heading of 'New Federalism'. 
Before I deal with the final part of my speech I would like to mention I was thinking over dinner about an error that was made today in a statement by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton).  He gave us the advantage of his great knowledge of industrial relations and of the history of the trade union movement over the century. He told us about the industrial revolution and about the Tolpuddle martyrs who went to work and smashed up the machines of that time. The honourable member is not in the House at the moment. I hope he is listening to what I have to say. If he is not he will read my comments tomorrow. For his information it was the Luddites who smashed the machines. It had nothing to do with the Tolpuddle martyrs. 
Having made that point, which I was most anxious to put forward, I now turn to the subject of public works and I specifically want to refer to lack of provision of funds for such works. Money spent by this Government on public works is not money that goes to bureaucrats, and that should be clearly understood. The Australian Government in all of its public works programs conducts or performs no work at all. In fact it lets out contracts to private contractors who employ people like the people in my electorate, ordinary people who are not public servants but who work for construction companies. Now that the funds from the Australian Government have been cut off these people cannot look forward to any employment at all. So in another area the Government, even apart from its overall policy and strategy, simply by making no funds available for public works is in fact increasing unemployment in this country. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Moore)  adjourned. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. What effect has the continuing reduction of the staff ceiling of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development had on that Department's ability to carry out its functions properly? In particular, have the most recent staff reductions affected the ability of the Department to administer government programs properly? Will the staff cuts inhibit in any way the Department's capacity to administer in the future the Government's responsibilities in fields such as the environment? 
It is always interesting to sit here and witness the shedding of crocodile tears by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  In the short time that he has been in this House and the short time that he will be in it before the next elections, he has become quite well known and will continue to be quite well known for the fact that he weeps and wails and apologises for everything; he has never stood up and accepted responsibility for any decision that the Government has taken. 
He put forward a specious argument on the question of the shipbuilding industry. This crazy argument has been put forward by other members of the Liberal Party, namely, that it was following Labor Party policy. That does not bind the members of the Liberal Party. They are the people who took the action. It might have been spoken about previously, but the action was taken by the Liberal Party. He cannot apologise for that. He ought to stand up, be honest and say that it is true that the Liberal Party took the action. It seems to me that other Labor Party policies were not followed by the Government. Why has it suddenly picked on one, the policy on the shipbuilding industry? Furthermore, circumstances were somewhat different at an earlier time from what they are now. The yards are short of work; they are looking for work. Let us look at the sum of money that is actually involved. To build those bulk carriers in Australia would cost $20m per ship, less a subsidy of $7m on each ship. To have them built where they are being built is costing a total of $40m for the 4 ships. That is half the price of building them in Australia. But what are we talking about? We are talking about $20m, and that is all. In the Budget there was $60m which went straight into the pockets of mining companies in Western Australia as a direct subsidy; yet the present Government will not put up $20m to subsidise the shipbuilding industry in Australia and keep men in work. All that the Government does is to subsidise workers in other countries- in this case, Japan. That ought to be said and ought to be understood. People should not go around this country making statements that are so blatantly false. 
The honourable member for Denison also spoke of the local government position. He did not tell us the whole story there either. He trotted out a set of statistics about money that was to be paid to the States. He did not bother to tell us that no money is being paid to Victoria this year for its sewerage program. He did not tell us that no such money is being paid to New South Wales either. He did not tell us of all the ancillary payments made by the previous Labor Government to the States for State and local government purposes that are not being made this year. It is about time- I agree with his words herethat a little honesty was introduced into the situation. 
But I did not get up to talk about that. What I really want to talk about, apart from the points that I have already outlined, relates to my electorate. I am well known for not being parochial. I have always been regarded as being of statesmanlike stature in this House. But today I feel very competent to raise the matter of the lack of health services in Broadmeadows and Sunbury, both of which are suburbs located within the Federal division of Burke. In both those areas the previous Government raised with the local people the question of building community health centres. This matter was attractive to the local people. They formed committees of citizens in the area and set about doing the planning that was necessary, on the basis of an undertaking from the Australian Government that if the plans were approved funds would be made available. Land was purchased in both areas, Sunbury and Broadmeadows, and the committees set about their task of planning the community health centres. They not only planned the buildings which are essential and engaged architects to do the drawings but also formulated on the best advice available to them ideas on the sorts of health services that would be needed in these very large areas. 
I point out that the electorate of Burke- one of the best represented electorates in Australia- extends across the north-western part of Melbourne, the outer suburbs. It is acknowledged by all the statistic-keeping authorities to be the most rapidly growing sector of the metropolis. In about 9 years' time, by the year 1985, the population of that area will well exceed a quarter of a million people and will be nearer to 300 000 people. It is rapidly developing towards that very large number of people. The health services and other services in the area badly need to be planned and to have funds put into them to upgrade the area and to keep pace with the rapidly increasing population. The community health care services and community health centres go part of the way towards providing some of those services. 
The schools and all other facilities, including sewerage programs, are lagging. There is no major hospital in that area. There is no hospital planned by the Victorian Government. The Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission has said that the priorities lie in other areas of Melbourne; when pressed on that question the Commission concedes that it would change its priorities if funds were available. It acknowledges that there is a need for a hospital in that area. However, the State Government cannot provide the funds; and the Government that can provide the funds- the Australian Government- will not do so. The thing that has disturbed the people in that area is that now they have been advised by the Hospitals and Charities Commission that funds will not be made available for the construction of the buildings and for the engagement of staff; in fact, staff ceilings have been applied to the full-time people already working in the community health centre. They are overstaffed; they have more people working for them than the ceiling allows. 
This is a growing need. It is a service that is growing. It is embryonic at the moment. As it grows, of necessity it will need people. Yet the Government has placed a staff ceiling that means that no more people will be employed. I suppose that is fair enough because it has not provided any funds to put up the buildings. Therefore the matter has reached a complete impasse. Nothing will be done. All the planning that has gone into it for some 3 years has come to nought. The land is owned. One can understand the anger of the people in the area. It is a large area, as I mentioned. Of course there are doctors practising in the area. Again the statistics tell us that there are fewer doctors per thousand head of population in that area than there are in other parts of the metropolis. The area is not even properly served by doctors who practise curative medicine rather than preventive medicine. They do not have the time to inquire into the community to find out what ills are really affecting the community, whether they be physical or mental. 
There is no facility which provides for research into community health. The people in the area are just having bandaids stuck on them. Nobody is finding out the socio-economic reasons for the ills that are befalling them; nobody is having a look at the incidence of alcoholism or the psychiatric problems that exist in the area. If somebody does not look at them and gauge the depth of them, there is no way in which a service can be provided to prevent illnesses or to cure illnesses which already exist. The doctors are relying on people coming to them from the community. There is no facility to take health care to the people in the area. The community health centre would do that. It would make provision for health care to be taken to the people. Any reasonable person knows that not everybody knows when he has an illness. He may know when he has a serious illness, but he may not know when he has an affliction or problem which may cause other problems in the community. These things have to be ferreted out. They have to be known about before remedial action can be taken. There are no facilities in the area to do this. Imagine a group of people which is larger than the population of the city of Canberra- in fact, half as big again as the population within the environs of Canberra- and which has no community health service and no public hospital. None of those facilities is available in that area. 
The present Government could not care less. The previous Government made an attempt to help. It offered to build a hospital there when the Victorian Government decided that it was not going to build hospitals. The Victorian Government gave in and then built a hospital somewhere else. The whole area is without services. That is a blatant indictment of the present Government. The present Government will do nothing to plan for that area. It has absolutely cut off funds for that area. It has left everybody who has been involved in the planning high and dry. Nobody is quite sure where he is going. I am hopeful that the Government will take some note of what I have said today, look at this very important area of Melbourne- I guess it is only representative of other areas- look at the lack of services in the area, do some planning and make available funds to provide the services. 
-A challenge was just thrown down by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  He has become well known in this House, in the short time that he has been here, for his Red baiting. He made a fundamental error in the statement that he made to this House when he spoke about Ted Bull, who is the Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and who is a member of the Communist Party, controlling the waterfront. He said that the  Truxtun  was berthed without the aid of tugs. The Waterside Workers Federation has no control over seamen. Seamen man tugs. The Secretary of the Seamen's Union in Victoria is a member of the Australian Labor Party. Therefore a fundamental error was made by the honourable member for Denison. He also criticised the Premier of New South Wales and seemed to indicate to this House that unless the  Truxtun  were allowed into Sydney Harbour that State would be without defences. He did not bother to say that the reason  Mr Wran,  the Premier of that State, gave for not allowing the  Truxtun  into Sydney Harbour was that nobody could assure him and the people of New South Wales that the harbour would not be destroyed if an accident occurred to the nuclearpowered and nuclear-armed vessel,  Truxtun 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
-Has the Treasurer seen reports of a speech in Tokyo yesterday by  Sir Bede  Callaghan, the  Chairman  of the Foreign Investment Review Board in which he claimed that there 'has recently been evidence of improvement' in Australia's industrial relations? As  Sir Bede's  statement is contrary to statements made by the Treasurer, can the Treasurer advise us which of these statements we are to believe? 
Tonight I wish to raise a matter which I believe is of great significance to all serving servicemen in Australia. I have spoken with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  on the matter. He has before him details of a particular instance which involved Terrence Albert Collins, an Army employee, who injured himself in the course of his employment in 1972. 
-I have an arrangement with the Minister. I have raised the matter with him. I am not referring to the particular case before the Minister but I wish to refer in general to the difficulties that are facing Terrence Albeit Collins because he is a serving serviceman. He injured himself in the course of his employment in 1972 whan a name thrower blew up. Believing that everything necessary was being done, he sought compensation under the compensation laws. As in all these things, he was never advised that other avenues were available to him, for example, common law action. Generally, compensation under common law action is greater than under the compensation laws. However, because the man was not aware of this he laboured too long with his problem. He was then debarred by the Victorian Limit of Actions Act 1958. The accident occurred in Victoria. The solicitor acting for the man now seeks to have the Australian Government not use as a defence certain clauses that are available to it. 
Having said all that, I should like to say to the House- I think it ought to be said on behalf of all serving personnel in the armed Services- that these people very often find themselves in a somewhat different position from other persons in the community. 
-Will the boy scout please keep quiet. 
-Well, that is the honourable member's opinion. 
-The honourable member is an ex-lieutenant-colonel and ought to know better than to just let his lower jaw flap around without actually saying anything. What really happens is that someone engaged in industry has somewhere to go to get advice, for example, his trade union. People in the community generally who are injured know that there is nobody to look after them, so they automatically go to a lawyer. 
-When we have a person like the honourable member for Riverina acting as a lieutenant-colonel, it is no wonder that people like this serviceman find themselves in this sort of position. Terrence Collins joined the armed Services believing that people like the ex-member- he is almost the ex-member for Riverina- or rather the ex-lieutenant-colonel would do everything in their power to make sure that he was made well aware of his rights. To the best of my knowledge, this serviceman at least and other servicemen whom I have questioned have never been informed of their rights. In all their pristine ignorance they have fondly believed that lieutenant-colonels would look after their rights, but lieutenant-colonels generally have not looked after their rights. I have suggested to the Minister for Defence already that he should take some cognisance of the wisdom I have tried to propound and in the future ensure that every serviceman is fully advised that he had better not just rely on the Army, the Navy or the Air Force to look after his interests if he is injured. He does not have a trade union to look after him, and unless he goes out and engages the services of a solicitor or talks to somebody who has as much wisdom as I have, he will find himself in a very bad position. 
I believe that it is not difficult for the Minister to advise each member of the armed Services that there are remedies available to him apart from the statutory ones. These men should not be left in the position where they believe they are being well looked after by lieutenant-colonels. I believe the worst of the lieutenant-colonels has already left the Army. I believe those who are left are well worth looking after. The one who was never much good in the armed Services has been inflicted upon us by the voters of Riverina. By the grace of God and by the grace of the voters in Riverina he will not be here after the next general election. I trust that the Government takes some notice of the wisdom I have tried to propound tonight. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I do not really listen when people speak at 358 words a minute, as the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  was doing tonight when reading the speech which was written for him by  Mr Santamaria. 
-By Santamaria and Knopfelmacher. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  It took one minute of my time for the honourable member to concede that what I was saying was correct. 
-I am not going to traverse again the ground I have already traversed. We have heard in this House tonight a speech by the honourable member for Evans which would have laid bare the bones of other speeches in this House. He made all sorts of allegations about what happened in Chile, but I would remind him of what happened in Australia on 11 November 1975. I ask him to look at that situation. If there was a reversal of the situation in Chile, at least Allende was elected by the people of Chile. He was overturned by the Central Intelligence Agency and IT &amp; T- the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation- and that has been admitted. 
-'Garbage' says the honourable member. It is the voice of Knopfelmacher. It is the voice of Santamaria in this chamber. The honourable member for Evans knows that those who sit near him are those who propound in this chamber the voice of reaction and the voice of Knopfelmacher. 
-It would have been delightful to hear and to understand what the honourable member for Evans was saying. It will be understood the next time around. It will be recorded in  Hansard.  The honourable member for Evans was so intent on delivering his speech- the speech written by Knopfelmachertonight that he read it so quickly I could not understand him. 
-What I actually wanted to speak about was the speech made by the honourable member - 
-I will accept that,  Mr Acting Speaker,  but I think that  Mr Knopfelmacher  and  Mr Santamaria  - 
The words used by the honourable member for Evans were too big for him to have written them himself. I really want to talk about the speech made by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton). 
-Another rightwinger having a bash. 
-This is actually my seat,  Mr Acting Speaker. 
-I do not have much time left to speak. What I really wanted to talk about was the scathing attack by the honourable member for Higgins on the greatest workingclass poet in Australia, C. J. Dennis. 
-Yes, he had a sense of humour but it was prostituted and misused tonight by the honourable member for Higgins who endeavoured to select episodes at random. If he wants to talk about the  Glugs of Gosh,  I remind him to have a look at his eminent predecessor from his part of Melbourne and the situation where the  Glugs of Gosh  refused to take stones out of their area to buy jars of pickles and alarm clocks. If he cares to align that, it was written in 1 9 1 9 by C. J. Dennis. Can I have an extension of time? 
-My question is without notice and is addressed to the Minister for Contraction. It is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Sydney. With regard to the massive fall-off in apprenticeship indentures in the construction industry, will the Minister tell the House of any effort he might be making to absorb apprentices in direct Government employment, in particular through his Department, which had the largest decrease in apprenticeship intake of any Federal Department in the last year. 
-The Opposition has moved an amendment concerning the estimates before the chamber. That was done for a very good reason. I support the amendment that has been moved. I would like to take up the point raised by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I think that it gets to the nub of what Parliament is all about. There have been too many instances since 13 December of last year when the Government has adopted the attitude that it owns the Parliament and that the Parliament somehow or other is the private domain of the Government- the Government, of course, being the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Ministers. I think that it ought to be said in this place, and said as frequently as possible, that the Parliament is not the private domain of the Government; rather it is a forum for public debate. In that sense the Parliament belongs to the people. 
The honourable member for Mackellar endeavoured to establish that the champions, if you like, of the Parliament are the Presiding Officers- the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate. The honourable member cited as an example the dreadful and in my view- he disagrees with me in this respect- most unconstitutional action that was taken on 1 1 November of last year. Lest the argument put by the honourable member for Mackellar is correct, I would like to recall to the House the events of 1 1 November of last year, as recorded at page 293 1 of  Hansard  of that day. It may not be clear in the minds of some people, particularly those honourable members opposite who, it seems to me, like to justify the action that was taken because it moved them back onto the government benches. I would like to refresh their minds as to the events of that day. When the House resumed after the luncheon adjournment we were informed by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, who was then the Leader of the Opposition, that the Governor-General had asked him to form a government. The House then carried a want of confidence motion in the so-called Fraser Government. At 3 o'clock the honourable member for Werriwa,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam moved: 
That this House expresses its want of confidence in the Prime Minister and requests  Mr Speaker  forthwith to advise  His Excellency  the Governor-General to call the honourable member for Werriwa to form a government. 
The proposition was duly put that the question be now put. That proposition was carried. The original question was then put and carried. In other words, the House then agreed that the  Speaker  should convey a message to the GovernorGeneral. I remind honourable members that it was at 3 o'clock in the afternoon that the House agreed that the  Speaker  should convey that message to the Governor-General. The Governor-General, with no consideration for the rights of the members of this chamber and with no consideration for the rights of the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, who, the honourable member for Mackellar has convinced us, is the champion of the rights of this chamber, refused to see the  Speaker. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! A point of order has been raised. The honourable member for Burke will resume his seat. 
-He is again eating up my time. He does this consistently. 
-If the honourable member for Bendigo cares to stand against me in Burke next time I will fix him right up. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I have not called the honourable member for Burke yet. The honourable member for Bendigo has raised a point of order. As I see it there has been no reflection in this case. It was probably unnecessary for the honourable member for Bendigo to add certain remarks to his point of order. I call the honourable member for Burke. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  That happened at 3 o'clock in the afternoon. The House adjourned at 3.15 p.m. after having given a clear instruction to the  Speaker  to speak to the Governor-General. With clear discourtesy, the Governor-General declined to see the  Speaker,  even though the  Speaker  was directed by the members of this chamber to see the Governor-General. At some time before 5.30 in the afternoon the GovernorGeneral took the decision that the Parliament would be dissolved and his Secretry came to Parliament House and took the necessary action of sticking a notice onto the front door with a bit of sticky tape and reading a proclamation from the front steps. If the Governor-General really believed as the honourable member for Mackellar believes and as I believe, that discourtesy would not have been shown and perhaps the end result would have been different. 
This brings me to the point that this Parliament is not accepted as an institution even by those who sit in it. A degrading incident occurred the other day. The  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, an important person, wished to entertain people in a Scandinavian country. A request was made to the Government for $500 so that he could do so, and it was denied. This Parliament is not the prerogative of the Prime Minister and his Ministers. I put the point that in fact there ought to be a separate Department of the Parliament administered by the  Speaker  and the  President  conjointly. It would have nothing to do with government. A separate appropriation ought to be made simply for the running of this Parliament as the Presiding Officers believe it should be run. 
-The honourable member asks who would be in charge. I wish he would listen. I just said the Presiding Officers would be in charge. The actions of 1 1 November clearly took Australia along the first tottering steps to its destiny- a republic and not an appendage to a monarchy overseas. I come to the most important point. I am not ashamed but quite prepared to say without any blushes that there is need for a new parliament house. 
-We are in agreement. That is lovely. We will start from that point. I have had the honour of taking through this Parliament a private member's Bill establishing the site for a new and permanent Parliament House on Capital Hill. Since that time precious little has been done. The Labor Government set up a committee on the new and permanent Parliament House. A great deal of work was done by that committee and some progress was being made before the dastardly action of 1 1 November last. The new Government, to its credit- it is not often I give it creditdid re-establish the committee. It met once. In the last 8 or 9 months, it has met only once. 
-If the honourable member would care to read through  Hansard  he would find who is on it. The matter rests with the Presiding Officers. I am surprised that those 2 honourable gentlemen are not more diligent in their actions in having more frequent meetings of the committee and making more information available so that this temporary building- it was temporary when it was constructed- can be rebuilt. I am a bit more optimistic than the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  I would like to see a new parliament house built within a short space of time. 
-I would say 10 years. That would allow time for the planning and the necessary funding of such a project. Unless that is done this building will drop right round the ears of everybody who inhabits it or we will have a conglomerate hotch-potch of offices continually being added at the back of the building. The building is landlocked. 
-The honourable member refers to broom cupboards. I happen to occupy one of those as an office. There are not too many left. Unless urgent action is taken now- I believe that the matter rests with the Presiding Officer- the project of a new and permanent parliament house will still be debated in this chamber 25 years from now. That would be a tragedy. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-Mr  Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member has made his personal explanation. 
When one considers the situation in the State of Victoria, it is rather curious to see Government supporters rise in this House and proclaim their abhorrence of gerrymanders or 'Donnymanders' as they call them. I join issue with the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  who said that South Australia was a stagnating State. For his information- I know that he lives there and that for him the situation is very curious, but he ought to know better than anybody else that South Australia is looked upon as the most progressive State in the whole of Australia. Apart from New South Wales and Tasmania, it certainly has the most progressive State government in the whole of Australia. If honourable members opposite want to have a look at gerrymanders they ought to look at the experts. If they want to look at the experts they ought to go north and have a look at a fellow in Queensland who is running his State with 29 per cent of the popular vote. 
-It is very curious that when one starts to make an assault on the Premier of Queensland the person who springs to his defence is the honourable member for Griffith. I assure the honourable member for Kingston that if he really wants to look at gerrymanders there are places other than South Australia that he ought to look at. If we have a situation of one vote one value, as in South Australia, I very much doubt that that could be called a gerrymander. I have in mind the State of Victoria. There we are back to the Playford situation of the State being divided into 2 sections, with the people who represent the metropolitan areas having a larger number of people in their electorates than those who live in country areas. That sort of situation brings about the state of affairs that existed in South Australia for such a long time under the conservative rule of  Sir Thomas  Playford. 
The whole purpose of Parliament is that as nearly as practicable the people in the Parliament should represent equal numbers of people in their electorates. That is a simple proposition. For the information of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who is leaving the chamber, I point out that I have some 93 000 people in my electorate. That makes my electorate almost twice the size of the division of Wimmera. That does not disturb me because I have always felt that one member of the Labor Party was worth 2 members of the National Country Party. The people who live in my electorate, through no fault of their own and even though they are excellently represented, suffer a disadvantage. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
-I was not surprised to hear the speech made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  He comes from the State of the great diplomat, Joh 
Bjelke-Petersen- a Premier of a State government which never ceased bashing the Labor Government when it was in office. Hearing the honourable member's speech tonight, I thought that I was at one of the joint Party meetings because what he is telling this House is the sort of thing he ought to be telling his own Ministers and his colleagues of his political ilk in the State Parliament of Queensland. Unlike the honourable member, I do not agree that too much of the Commonwealth purse, too much of the federal funds is being spent on social security. Many areas are neglected. In fact, the direction of the community's request for its needs is changing. I do not expect the conservatives on the other side of the chamber to fully understand this. But contrary to what they and their Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have been telling us for a long time, the pursuit of the community in Australia is not for manufactured goods but for services that can be provided only by government. It is in pursuit of better community health facilities that can be provided only by government. It is in pursuit of better schools that can be provided only by government. It is in pursuit of a more amenable environment which can be provided only by government. These are the areas where the unemployed in our community will more likely be employed rather than in manufacturing industry. 
Having said that, we come to the area that was covered, I thought very well, by the excellent and honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  when he spoke about community health centres. The honourable member for Petrie complained that when people are being treated in community health centres they ought to be told that those centres are provided by Commonwealth funds. Clearly the honourable member for Petrie does not live in Victoria. If he did live in Victoria it is apparent that he is not living in either Scullin or Burke because we do not have any community health centres in those 2 divisions. There is no community health treatment for the people. The community health centres are just not there. Two are being planned- one at Broadmeadows and one at Sunbury. They are in Burke. These are apart from those which have been mentioned by the honourable member for Scullin. Both are in the planning stage; both are ready to be built; both are operating from temporary premises; both have a nucleus of staff; both have been told by the Hospitals and Charities Commission in Victoria that no funds are available to continue the project, and no funds are available to pay any more staff than they have at present. In fact both of the community health centres have been told by the Hospitals and Charities Commission that with the present staff ceilings they have one person too many. 
-The people in the area are prepared to continue with the projects and are prepared to provide a service to the people. A rather inane comment was made from my geographical left- certainly not from my political left- about who got the nation into debt. That argument can be debated for a much longer time than the 10 minutes that is available to me to speak. If the honourable member is so silly as to make such a statement, and even so much sillier as to believe it, then that gives a pretty good explanation of why these projects have been chopped off. When I made a submission to the Federal Minister for Health I got back a very courteous letter in which the Minister said he deeply regretted that the Hospitals and Charities Commission in Victoria had told the Broadmeadows Community Health Centre that its existing staff exceeded the ceiling placed on it by the Hospitals and Charities Commission. He further regretted- the poor chap- he must stay awake all night worrying his soul out about these things- that no funds were available for capital works. The Government should be honest about this matter. I am not suggesting that the Minister is not honest; I believe he is and I believe he would genuinely like to do something about it. But he is a captive of the ultra-conservative Fraser regime which denied him the funds to perform these services that are so urgently and vitally needed in the community as was very clearly spelled out by my colleague, the honourable member for Scullin. 
Division 325 of the estimates for the Department of Health, a curious vote, relates to antismoking education. It shows that $75,000 was appropriated in 1975-76 and that $64,080 of that amount was spent. We know that recently the advertising of cigarettes and the like on television has been banned. 
-I heard some Government supporter say 'hear, hear!' I thought that the Government was going to take an active interest in this matter. I am not antismoker; I am a very heavy smoker. I should like to see an anti-smoking campaign conducted. I read through the estimates and found that for the year 1 976-77 not one cent had been allocated for an anti-smoking campaign. So the Government believes it has solved the problem simply by taking the advertisements off television. Of course what happened is that the tobacco companies are now taking full page spreads in the newspapers. So the Government has solved nothing. 
-It is too late for that. It should have happened years ago to the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr).  Any one of these estimates for the Department of Health, the Department of Repatriation and the Department of Social Security with which we are dealing gives no consideration to a very significant group in our community and they are the people who are deaf. I mean the totally deaf who are generally deaf from birth. Some people, such as Boilermakers, become deaf through their work situation. I wonder whether many honourable members in this chamber have stopped to think of the very great disadvantage suffered by these deaf people. They cannot use a simple instrument such as a telephone. They are not in the position that I am in if I want to contact anybody in Australia who has a telephone in his home or office. I simply pick up the telephone and keep on dialing until I get the correct number of digits. I am then able to speak with the person on the other end of the telephone. We are able to have immediate communication. If people ring my home I hear the telephone ringing. This attracts my attention so I answer the telephone. People can communicate with me. How can this happen with people who are deaf? 
I suppose it is true that one could put a light on the telephone to attract their attention but what is the good of that if they cannot hear what is being said over the telephone? If they are mute as well as deaf, then it seems to me that the problem is compounded. As I understand it, in Australia no attention is being given to providing an instrument whereby people who are deaf can communicate with one another at distance as we who have our hearing and speaking faculties do with a telephone. 
I have been led to believe, and I have read advertisements in newspapers to this effect, that in the United States of America an instrument similar to a typewriter- just like the instrument we see at the airports when we book our seats- is available. I brought this to the attention of the Minister and I received a reply that said: 'Yes, there is some sort of work being done on this'. I think that work ought to be stepped up. I think that installation ought to be supplied at no cost to the person who was born deaf or born deaf and mute through no wish of his or her own. I think it is incumbent on the rest of the community to bear the cost of providing this instrument to people irrespective of the cost. I understand that the cost of such an addition to the telephone is not all that great anyhow; it is not out of proportion. I do not find any specific mention of this matter as I do not find specific mention of a number of things in the Estimates. Nor have I heard the matter spoken about until tonight. I think it is a matter that ought to attract the attention of the Minister, or, for that matter, any one of the 3 Ministers involved with the estimates for these 3 Departments. If this does add to the amount of money spent on social security, and that in turn incurs the wrath of the honourable member for Petrie, I make no apology. I think this expense is justified and worthwhile. It is one that I am sure any reasonable person in the Australian community- any person without afflictionwould cheerfully bear. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I congratulate the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  for raising this question in the House. It is one of great importance to a very large section of our community. I was looking forward to sitting in the chamber and listening to the Acting Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations  (Mr Howard)  speak during the 15 minutes that were available to him. I was hopeful that out of all of that he could make some suggestions as to how this very sensitive problem could be solved. Unfortunately, my calculations were that the Minister devoted about 4 minutes of his time to dealing with what the Government has done about this problem and spent the other 11 minutes delivering rhetoric and heavy irony which, in my view, are very cold comfort for those hundreds of thousands of people who are looking for employment in Australia. I rather think that there is something apathetic about the constant statements of the Government which indicate its blind faith in the private sector being resurrected. In the Minister's own words, he told us that all of the countries with which Australia would like to be comparedI take it that he means the capitalist countries around the world- are suffering a similar fate to Australia and possibly worse. No evidence exists in the world today that private enterprise- the great and mighty god that the Minister and those who sit behind him worshipwill ever lead the world out of the economic recession in which they, the capitalists, have now placed it. 
The Minister spoke about a long term solution to the problem, and I agree with him entirely; but there is a need to look at the situation of those who at the moment find themselves unemployed. Can we please be spared any future examples of the Prime Minister of this country finding positions for 4 young men from his home town of Hamilton at a place almost 200 miles away- at Highett in Victoria. It was not by coincidence, I suppose, that those 4 young men were placed with the Nylex Corporation and that a member of this House has very close associations with that company. It is also very interesting that those 4 men did not stay very long. That raises a question: Did the company have 4 vacancies and could it not find 4 young men who lived close by to take those positions? Or did the people who engage people at that factory do a favour for the Prime Minister of this country to get him some cheap publicity in the newspapers while those 4 young men stood around twiddling their thumbs or taking the wax out of their ears, and giving the impression that the Prime Minister was able to find positions for people? 
Just for the information of the Prime Minister and for the information of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, I should like to remind them that at present in the city of Broadmeadows important, but not very large compared with the rest of Australia- 1688 young people under the age of twenty-one are unemployed. Of these, 457 males and 437 females are under the age of twenty. The vacancies registered at the Commonwealth Employment Service Office in Glenroy are for 3 junior males and 2 junior females. If the Prime Minister of this country is such a great job hunter let him find jobs for those young people in Glenroy and Broadmeadows. The fact is that he cannot. 
This problem and the difficulties that are experienced by young people who are unemployed have been very carefully and capably noted by my colleague, the honourable member for Gellibrand. This Government, which told the people of Australia prior to 13 December that it had the panacea to all of these ills and encouraged them to vote for it, has done nothing in the period of almost 12 months it has been in office to improve the situation. In fact the situation has worsened. It is known by the Minister that before very long 400 000 people will be unemployed in Australia and, commensurately, that the number of young people unemployed will increase dramatically. Six per cent of the work force in Australia will be unemployed. To paraphrase words I have heard before in this Parliament, this Government is presiding over the worst unemployment and the highest rate of inflation in this country for 40 years. Surely the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  will go down in history as the Minister for unemployment and strained relations. 
Serious consideration must be given to the problems that confront young people in finding employment. Surely with the giant resources that are available to government in the Public Service and other areas, the problem is not insoluble. It is all very well to look at long term situations but young people, like older people, have a habit of growing and getting older. So if the problem is not solved in 2 years time, somebody 20 years of age now who does not have a job will not have a job when he is 22 years of age. That is pretty axiomatic but it is something that has to be borne in mind in order to assess the whole situation and for job creation programs to be worked out. 
The Minister told us repeatedly that governments cannot spend their way out of problems. There may be some truth in that, although I doubt it. But by going the other way, by cutting back on the number of people employed in the Public Service, for example- in other words, by adopting staff ceilings- and by cutting back on expenditure for public works this Government is not doing anything to alleviate the situation. Money made available for public works would not be money wasted; it would be money which was creating assets. Surely the Minister, with his wide knowledge of these areas, cannot argue that that would be spending money in the sense that he talks about- that is, spending one's way out of a problem. The Government contradicts itself in relation to the specific area of public works, because by spending money on public works it would help to stimulate the private sector. The work carried out for the Australian Government in this area is carried out by private contractors who engage people in the community generally. They are not public servants. They are people who are now standing in dole queues collecting a cheque once a fortnight when they could be more gainfully employed improving the infrastructure of this country and providing the facilities that will be needed if there is any dramatic move in the development of the nation. 
Again we come back to the continual blind faith in the private sector. If the Government is going to let the private sector solve this problem for it- that is what the Government seems to be saying- the problem will remain for evermore, because in my view the private sector is not terribly interested in solving the problem of unemployment. People are of little consequence to it except as consumers. As producers they can be readily replaced with machines. However, the paradox of that situation is that unless the wealth created by the machines is distributed among the community then the manufacturer will soon run out of consumers. So it will require the action of government; it will require interference, if you like, in the private sector. Apart from the handing out of incentives to employ young people that raises the question: What do the young people do when they are employed? If there are vacancies in the factories now, why are not employers employing people? Why do employers have to be paid money to encourage them to employ people? Is it just a ploy to have more people in the factory than are actually needed in order to make the statistics look good? Are we being serious about the problem or are we just trying to dress it up to make it electorally acceptable? I trust that this House is being serious about the problem and is not just taking it and dressing it up to make it electorally acceptable. 
In this whole area there is a need for governments to exercise their influence. The change in the guidelines for the unemployment benefit, for example, did nothing but place the unemployed and those seeking employment completely at the hands of unscrupulous employers. Quite recently cases were reported in the newspapers where people had their unemployment benefit taken away from them at the whim of an employer who had the choice as to whether or not that person would be employed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
We are dealing with the estimates for the Department of National Resources and the Department of Overseas Trade. I think that my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who is a former Minister for Overseas Trade, has probably dealt with the estimates for that Department very well in his usual competent fashion. When we speak of national resources, of course, we are dealing with a very wide field, because it includes not only our mineral deposits and our other natural resources but also, of course, the very large human resources that we have in this country. Without those human resources none of the other resources would be worth very much at all. Generally when we start thinking of our natural resources our minds turn to our mineral deposits. It is very important to consider how those resources are going to be exploited for the benefit of those of us who live in this country. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  who proceded me in the debate and who represents the second largest electorate in the world - 
-It is the second largest. The honourable member says that it is the largest. I remind him that Alaska is the largest electorate in the world.  His  electorate, with an area of something less than 900 000 square miles, is the second largest electorate. That apparently is news to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie and I am sure that he will remember it for a long time. The honourable member who represents the second largest electorate in the world- the largest electorate in Australiarepresents also an area which is very rich in minerals. It is an area which over the years has been found to contain very great mineral deposits. The colleagues of the honourable member on the Government side- those members of the Liberal Party; and I suppose we must include the members of the National Country Party because they are part of the Government- have always voiced the cry that the only way in which those minerals can be developed to the benefit of Australia is by free enterprise. They are great champions of free enterprise. 
-The honourable member for Swan says: 'Hear, hear! ' That is not surprising. The fact of the matter is that if this country is to develop in the way in which most of us- certainly all of us on this side of the chamber -would like to see it develop then there must of necessity be a planned development of the natural resources of this country. It is not good enough for the honourable member for Kalgoorlie or others to say that in order to develop our natural oil deposits it is necessary to give a bonus of $2 a barrel on new discoveries of oil. 
-The fact that a royalty of $2 a barrel is paid has little to do with whether or not oil is discovered. The attitude of honourable members opposite displays a great paradox. They talk with the one voice about free enterprise developing these things. Free enterprise, as I understand it, is devoid of government interference. However, those who practise and preach the principle of free enterprise then have to say that the Australian people should forgo the $2 a barrel on all new discoveries of oil. The fact of the matter is, of course, that nobody is going to use any more or any less oil than he needs. If we are talking about oil discovered on the continental shelf of Australia and, as I heard somebody interject, oil from the Arab States then we are talking about 2 unlike substances. I remember seeing on television in Melbourne a commercial in which somebody was talking about oils. The commercial had a son of a gangster setup, and somebody said: 'Oils is oils'. I invite honourable members on the Government side to consider that, because in fact, to use a colloquialism, oils ain't oils. Oil discovered off the coast of Australia is very different from that which is found in the Middle East, and the oil which is found in the Middle East is not necessarily acceptable to Australian needs. We are 90 per cent self sufficient in our supplies of oil. Our oil is a low sulphurous grade oil which can very easily be converted into petroleum products which we need more than anything else. The heavier oils from the Middle East are the bunkering oils used for ships, which perhaps we can do without. Why do we give a concession of $2 a barrel to the oil explorers? Why do we hand back to them in the form of a royalty money that rightly belongs to the Australian people? 
That brings me to the next point I would like to make. As long as Australia is afflicted with this free enterprise Government there will be no national plan formulated by a national government for the development of our mineral resources. Does the Government intend to leave that development in the hands of individuals of the ilk of Lang Hancock from Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court whom I heard lauded earlier tonight- I cannot imagine why- and the Premier of Queensland? The Government apparently is going to allow those people to develop the natural resources of Australia. Let us have a look at the 3 people I have mentioned. Each and every one of them in his own right is the enemy of Australia. I will mention their names again: Lang Hancock,  Sir Charles  Court and Bjelke-Petersen from Queensland. Each one of those people in his turn proposed the secession of his particular State from the Federation. I happen to be an Austraiian. I believe in the federation. I believe in Australia as a nation, as a land mass of some 3 million square miles, remaining as an entity in its own right. But the 3 people I have mentioned have wanted to hive off parts of Australia. I have heard it said- I think it is probably true- that the only foreign country with which Australia has got a land border is Queensland. But that is probably said because of the Premier of that State rather than the people who live there. I know that the people who live in Queensland are Australians through and through. So I cannot understand why those people who sit on the Government benches now want to turn over to private individuals the development of the natural resources of this country which are not the property of those private individuals; they are, in fact, the property of the Australian people who are denied the opportunity of ownership of any of them because these people claim ownership of those resources. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie was very loud and long in lauding the reduction in the concession given by this Government in the form of royalties. That concession to the mineral explorers amounts to about $60m. He lauded also the reduction in the levy on coal exported from this country and the reduction of the royalty of $2 a barrel on oil. Has anybody given us a valid reason for giving those concessions? It has been said by the Government, I rather think in a facetious way, that unless the $2 a barrel on oil is given back to the oil companies they will not explore for any more oil. What a lot of nonsense that is. I have never heard of a commercial enterprise yet that would not be prepared to go into any venture at all if there was a profit in it. No matter what incentives you might like to offer, it still will not move into that venture unless there is a profit in it. So why should the Government of Australia offer incentives to people who are already making enormous profits out of these activities. 
It seems to me, after listening to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  that his remarks represent an indictment of the National Country Party, as is its name for the time being, insofar as members of that party have to stand in this chamber to tell us how the Government ought to do this, that and the other thing about the rural industries. They should also explain to the House- it is well known to people outside it as it is to those of us inside it- that the Country Party or the National Country Party has been part of the Government since 1949, uninterruptedly until 1972 and from 13 December 1975. It is back in that position again. If the rural industries of Australia are in difficulties, as I have been told by members of the National Country Party, surely those difficulties have not been ameliorated by the actions of those so-called representatives of farmers. 
I refer to the members of the Country Party or the National Country Party who sit in this chamber. Had they done their job properlytheir influence in Cabinet has not been insignificant; it has been very significant- and represented the people who they presume to represent as well as the officials of trade unions whom they never cease to berate in this chamber have done their job, the farmers of Australia would be in a much better position today. I understand that the increase in farm products last year was of the order of 3 per cent. The increase in the workers' payments last year was of the order of 10 per cent. So I ask honourable members in the chamber to judge for themselves who has the better leadership- the farmers through the National Country Party or the trade unions through their organisations? The indictment must rest on the heads of members of the National Country Party who sit on my left and behave like a gaggle of geese. 
I rise in the debate tonight to speak on the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and to bring to the attention of the Committee a matter of great signficance to the people of Australia. It relates to the employment of Australian people in industry, a matter which was debated earlier today and one which must be in the minds of every honourable member. Certainly it must be in the minds of those who form the Government of this country. Recently I was overseas and visited Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia. Whilst there I visited an industry that is know as an off-shore Australian industry. In fact, it is a subsidiary of the Nylex Corporation Ltd of Australia. The company has established a factory just outside Kuala Lumpur and is manufacturing vinyl coated fabric which I think is commonly known as leathercloth 
The company is a subsidiary of the Nylex Corporation and has been established in Malaysia where it receives certain concessions. It has pioneer status in that country. Therefore it pays no income tax to Malaysia for 8 years. It has a tax free holiday. It is able to repatriate its profits to Australia under the laws of Malaysia. It is able to engage Malaysian workers and to pay them $A20 a week. It then manufactures materials, including a product that is also manufactured by the parent company in Australia at the Nylex Corporation's plant at Deer Park in Victoria. It manufactures exactly the same product and exports it back to Australia. The justification given for this is that it is a ramification of the parent company and therefore it ought to engage in its own activities. 
The end result of it all is that recently we read in the Melbourne Press that 130 to 200 work people out at Deer Park were dismissed from their jobs by the Nylex Corporation. The reason given for that dismissal was that the company cannot compete with imports. I remind the Committee that the imports come from the Nylex Corporation's subsidiary deliberately established off-shore in Malaysia, using the cheap labour and the benefits available in that country to manufacture products and export them back to Australia in competition with the parent company. 
-I will not deal with minnows while I have a whale on the line. If the Government of this country is sincere about the retention of jobs in this country for our working people and about dealing with the advance of business in this country and the buoyancy of free enterprise conditions in this country, I fail to understand why it allows this sort of situation to prevail. It is no excuse to claim ignorance of it. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  is a lawyer and he knows that ignorance of the law is no defence. 
The Government must know that this sort of situation is occurring. I  know from  personal experience of the activities of the Nylex Corporation in this off-shore caper as I would call it. I know because I saw the factory. I visited it and spoke with the managing director there. He quite frankly told me what the company was all about. I have not had an opportunity to visit all the offshore corporations and all the factories around the world established by Australian companies in countries where labour is cheaper than it is in Australia. Therefore I would not know to the full extent how widespread this practice is. But having learnt of one instance, it worried me greatly. While I was overseas I travelled with 2 members of the National Country Party. One of them made the comment: 'Well, if we are going to make tariffs high in Australia for tractors, for example it will make tractors more expensive for farmers to buy and therefore adds to their cost of production'. 
At a later stage during that visit we saw great areas planted out with oil palm seed. As I pointed out to the honourable member, who is quite sincere- I have a high regard for him albeit he is a member of the National Country Party- if this scheme were carried through to its logical conclusion the farmers of Australia would need to worry too because they also produce seed oil. If we believe that we can import manufactured goods into this country more cheaply than we can make them- it is probably true if we are going  to import the poverty of those  countries which have cheaper labour available to them- we can also import foodstuffs more cheaply. If we can import foodstuffs more cheaply, it is not the trade unionist and it is not the worker in the factory who has to look out for his job; it is the hard working small farmer not represented by the National Country Party who has to look out for his livelihood. 
I am hopeful that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs will take cognisance of the point I have made about the Nylex Corporation. I am hopeful that this matter will be investigated within his own Department and the Department of Industry and Commerce. I hope he will take great care that industries in Australia do not go willy-nilly off-shore to find cheaper labour and cheaper materials and export the products made there back to Australia to the detriment of the Australian work force. If we are going to engage in that sort of exercise, it seems that there is a very poor future in store for the working people of Australia. 
-It is not my intention to enter into an in-depth debate with the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  There will be an opportunity for this at a later stage if the very sad picture he painted for us tonight is true. If that position eventuates I believe it will be necessary for this Government to do something about that situation before the end of this parliamentary session. The honourable member has not been in this place long enough to know that the matter about which he speaks was the subject of legislation brought into the Parliament by the previous Government in an endeavour to correct the position. It was rejected by the then Liberal and National Country Party controlled Senate. When the Bill comes forwardI believe that the Government will need to do something very quickly about the positionthere will be time to get into that whole matter in greater depth and to point out the fallacies of the argument put forward tonight by the honourable member for Wilmot. He was doing what most honourable members on that side of the chamber do, that is, engage in his puny bit of union bashing. It is just as well that he is not a heavyweight. The honourable member carries about the same weight as a feather. I am sure that the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia would regard him with the same son of contempt. 
It is a pity that honourable members opposite do not have the industrial wisdom of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  If they endeavoured to make constructive contributions to this debate as did that honourable gentleman the very real problem confronting the people of Australia- the unemployment situationwould receive proper discussion. It is not easy to resist the temptation to behave like a political yahoo, as honourable members who sit opposite behaved when they sat in Opposition. Time without number, they rose in the chamber simply to mouth the phrase that Australia is now suffering the worst unemployment and the worst inflation in 40 years. Inflation is running at a higher rate than it was before 1975. Unemployment is also at a higher rate than it was before 1975. 1 have heard no refutation by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to the story that was carried on the front page of the  Australian Financial Review  on Tuesday, 5 October 1976 under the headlines: New employment scheme under study as Government warns jobless could hit 400 000'. That figure includes school leavers who will be on the employment market at the end of this year. 
This brings me to take up the point that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  raised tonight and which was followed up by the honourable member for Balaclava. If there was an ounce of wisdom or an ounce of understanding of the real problem by honourable members opposite, they would take up this argument rather than the puerile argument put forward by the honourable member for Wilmot in his attempt to do a bit of union bashing. Need exists in Australia for greater consideration to be given to the creation of jobs. The honourable member for Gellibrand made this point very well. What we are looking at now is the tip of the iceberg. The investment allowances that have been allowed in other parts of the Budget will only encourage industry to mechanise. If industry mechanises, there will be less requirement for people. This in turn will bring about a reduction in the requirement for the number of people working in industry. It will not bring about a reduction in the creation of wealth except that the wealth will go to those who invest the capital, not those who need it- the consumers. That is an economic problem that has to be looked at. 
It seems to me that the Government is making no real attempt in the area of job creation programs. As my honourable friend from Gellibrand pointed out, it has certainly cut out the Regional Employment Development scheme. There is no doubt about that. There is a drastic reduction in the funds available for that scheme. If the Government is serious in its attempt to restructure industry in Australia and to make the wheels of industry turn again, clearly there are people who need to be retrained to do work other than the work they are accustomed to doing. If that sort of thing is necessary, it seems to me that things like structural adjustment programs are just as necessary. Yet in the estimates at which we are looking the funds available for structural adjustment assistance have decreased from an actual expenditure of almost $8.3m last year to an incredibly low $150,000. That is the sort of priority that this Government places on structural adjustment assistance for workers who will need to be retrained to go into other industries. It does not care. It is more interested in providing new machines for the factories. 
I deal now with the relocation scheme. We are told that if a person does not take a job where there is a job going- the Government will pay the fare to get there- he will lose his unemployment benefit. For the information of honourable members who have not read the estimates, the amount spent on that sort of project last year was nearly $29,000. It was $28,903. This year a token $1,000 is made available. Clearly the Government will not go too deeply into that matter. The funds available for the NEAT scheme as it is known- the National Employment and Training scheme- by which people not necessarily engaged in industry are trained at community expense to take up other work which is sometimes more lucrative or sometimes more fulfilling are the same as they were last year, $40m. There has been an effective reduction in the amount available because over the last 12 months the inflation rate has escalated. Therefore, there is clearly no intention in the mind of the Government to look at the real problems that beset the community. There is no attempt at long term planning. There is this blind, faithful hope that the free enterprise system will get the whole show back on its feet and that without guidance, proper research or decisions taken by individuals, it will not fail. 
One of the problems besetting the area which I represent, the electorate of Burke, is the employment of young people. I heard this matter mentioned in the chamber tonight. It is an important one. This drops into the long-term planning situation. Clearly the people who will be required more in industry and in all fields in future will be technical people. Technical people will be required more than labouring people, unskilled people or semi-skilled people. That brings us to the whole question of apprenticeship training. To salve its conscience, the Government has made some funds available to employers to encourage them to take on apprentices. I rely on the words of the Government. Nobody will ever doubt those words! Its members are honest people who never tell untruths to the nation! They might break a few promises! In 1973 industry took on 42 000 apprentices. This year the intake slumped to 32 000. They are not my words, they are the words of  Mr Tony  Street, the Minister, who will go down in history as the Minister for Unemployment and Strained Relations. In practical terms, this reduction means that one employer in four has stopped taking on apprentices or has reduced his intake by one-quarter. That is not the sort, of thing about which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  should smile. It is serious. It is very serious for the people who are leaving school this year. He seems to think there is some sort of amusement in the situation. I have yet to be convinced that there is. I am sure that the people who are seeking apprenticeships, the young people who leave school, will find it a lot less humorous than the honourable member for Denison does. 
The Government is not doing very much in an area in which it can help, because of the ceilings that it has placed on staff. I refer to the position of Telecom. I quote from a journal called  the communication worker  which is put out by the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union: 
For example, as a consequence of staff ceilings, a Fraserian tool of economic madness, Telecom Australia's intake of apprentices this year has been slashed. Clearly, no consideration has been given for the future demands of the industry, much less for the feelings and aspirations of the kids looking  for jobs  
In no way can the position be stated more succinctly than that. That is the real problem. We are going to have this bottleneck, this shortage of tradesmen in the future because Telecom is not now engaging apprentices. It will break the heart of a large number of young school leavers and provide them with no opportunity for employment. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not think that it does the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  any good to disparage the very fine honourable member who preceded him in this House. 
-Or the gentleman before him, as I have been reminded by my friend, the honourable member for Lang. I point out to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro that he will find out after the next Federal election that the people of Eden-Monaro have treated him in the same way as they have treated previous representatives of the Liberal Party of Australia from that area. I was also reminded by the honourable member's opening remarks of something that should have been uppermost in my mind. I refer to his remarks about the occasion 2 weeks ago when the Grievance Day debate was interrupted. The honourable member, like myself, is a private member of this House. He and I are back bench members of it. The only difference between us is that I have had the pleasure of sitting on the back benches on both sides of the Parliament. If he is still a member of this Parliament after the next election I think that he will have the same experience as I have had. 
One of the 3 opportunities only that are available to private members of this House to express their points of view on matters that affect them or their electorate is the Grievance Debate, which we are engaged in today. On a General Business day the opportunity exists for private members to introduce legislation into this House. The only other opportunity on which a private member has an opportunity to raise any matters of concern to him is during the adjournment debate each evening. 
The Government, with its brutal weight of numbers and its insane belief that the floor of this chamber is its private property, has taken away from private members of this House the opportunity to introduce legislation by suspending the holding of General Business days. I should have thought that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro would have stood up and resisted that move most vigorously, but he acquiesced in it and in doing so gave away time that was available to private members to introduce legislation. He did so without demur. 
On the Thursday about which the honourable member spoke there were matters to be raised by private members on both sides of the House and the Government, with its brutal weight of numbers, attempted to intrude into the limited time that is available to private members. Of course, honourable members on this side of the House- the members of the Australian Labor Party- resisted that valiantly and fought for the rest of the day to preserve the rights of private members. If the honourable member for EdenMonaro is interested in the rights of members of this chamber I should have thought that he would have been fighting with us on that occasion, but he was not. He voted against us every time. He sat in his position and blandly accepted the assertion of the Government that this chamber is its private domain.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have known you for some time and I know that you do not believe that this Parliament is the private domain of a Government; rather that it is a forum for honourable members to express their views on issues. For that reason I am rather disappointed in the attitude of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. 
The matter that I want to speak about today relates broadly to education but specifically to libraries. Education is provided for in a number of places- in schools, colleges and universities. But it has been my experience after quite some years of living that education does not necessarily end when one ceases to attend the formal places of learning; rather does it continue throughout one's lifetime. Perhaps the most accessible place at which to gain further knowledge without hiring private tutors is at municipal or public libraries. But libraries do not exist only in the form of municipal or public libraries. They exist in schools, colleges and universities. 
Having looked at this matter for a long time and having been the  Chairman  of the Moonee Valley Regional Library Committee in Victoria, it has become more and more apparent to me that there needs to be Australian Government funding of libraries. The municipal libraries in Victoria are funded at the moment by a contribution from the municipality concerned that is matched by a subsidy from the State Government. It is done on a per capita basis, which means that the necessary finance is not always provided. Schools are financed by the Australian Government, the Victorian Government and contributions by parents. It seems to me that unless there is a rational approach in relation to the whole system of libraries there will be a duplication of resources. All resources- whether they be buildings, people or books- are scarce. Therefore it would be better if we were to do as is being done at one of the high schools in my electoratethe Gladstone Park High School. 
I visited that school quite recently. Its Principal,  Mr McKenzie,  is quite proud of the fact that the school has come to an arrangement with the local council, which is making a contribution, and the Australian and Victorian governments. The Australian Governmnent is involved because it is a secondary school library. The Victorian Government is involved because it is a Victorian State school. It seems to me to be a far more sensible way of providing this facility to the community at a lower cost because there is no duplication of buildings, books or personnel.  Mr McKenzie  told me that the service there, because it is new, has experienced some difficulties, but he has assured me that the bugs are being ironed out and that there are no real difficulties that cannot be overcome. 
If it can work in that instance- I have no doubt that this is happening in other places, but this is one about which I know something and know it for sure- I cannot see any reason why the Australian Government does not accept greater responsibility for the financing of libraries, provided the libraries are organised on a rational basis. I am not for one moment suggesting that the Australian Government, no matter what political complexion it might be, should engage in open-ended contracts to provide funds for libraries  per se.  That could lead to waste and duplication, the waste being caused by the duplication. 
I keep mentioning the Australian Government because I think all honourable members are well aware that we on this land mass of Australia are in a rather unique position insofar as the land masses throughout the world are concerned. Australia is the only land mass that has the one flag flying across it. It is the only land mass that has one national government. Australia is the only continent whose national government can look into every corner- the poorest corner of the Northern Territory and the richest corner of Victoria and can equalise the situation. I do not think that people ought to be disadvantaged because they choose to live in particular parts of this country for reasons best known to themselves. They ought to be supported. They can be supported only by a government that has access to the people in the 4 corners of this continent. Therefore I strongly urge the Australian Government to look into this matter and to examine the possibility of coming to arrangements with the municipal and the State governments, if you like, on the basis of there being a rationalisation of the provision of libraries because of their importance in the community, they being generally the only source available to the average person to further his knowledge and his education in his own way. If the Australian Government can through its attitude- I am sure that it can because it holds the purse strings- bring about a rationalisation of the situation that I have suggested the community would be better off, the cost of libraries would not be so high and the people in all areas, particularly in my own area, would be provided with a service that does not exist now in many areas. 
-I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  If my memory serves me correctly this is not the first time that the honourable member has stood up in this House and done a little bit of union bashing. He had better make the most of it because he has a rather limited time in this place to do that sort of thing. It seemed to me that his whole speech was a contradiction of what the Bill is all about. The Bill has been introduced to take away from the rank and file member his right to have a direct say in the election of his officials. It does nothing to dispel the hoary argument, the red herring, that the collegiate system looks after the interests of smaller States. Nothing could be further from the truth. If the honourable member cared to sit down and think about what he was saying instead of just mouthing rhetoric he would understand that what he was saying was a lot of clap-trap. Whichever system is used to elect federal officials of a union, whether it be by the direct system or by the collegiate system, each State in effect stands on its own feet. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  mentioned the Federated Clerks' Union. That union -certainly in Victoria and I believe also federally- is not the most democratic organisation in Australia. But I believe that even in the case of that union the larger States have more delegates to the federal electoral college than do the smaller States. The larger States have a greater voice. Even so the representation of the larger States is restricted and pegged back on the federal college and the small States have an advantage. 
The whole point at issue is that a vote for a national officer is a vote across the nation and not a vote in one State. It is a vote across the nation of all the union members in the nation, whether it be a vote for representatives who make up the college or whether it be a direct vote. Of course the larger States will have an advantage in this respect. There is no way in which we can stop such a situation, and nobody would want to stop it. But there is nothing to stop a person from Tasmania from putting himself up as a candidate for the federal secretaryship of a union. If he is competent and receives the support of people across the nation he will get the job. He will be elected not because he comes from Tasmania but because he is competent. The honourable member for Wilmot has not thought this matter through. I think that he has simply tried to equate the collegiate system with the system under which senators are elected. Of course, the Bill before us does not do that. To my knowledge, there are no rules of unions that do that either. 
The honourable member spoke at length about rank and file participation or membership participation; but what he did not say was that even in this Bill it is left to those in office to decide which sort of system will be used in the future. There is no question of the matter going back to the members and of the officials saying to them: What son of a system do you want? Do you want a rank and file ballot or do you want the collegiate system?' The Bill states that there is a choice; but the choice is there only for those who are entrenched in office. The whole Bill is designed to keep those who are in office in office. It is a little curious for the honourable member to talk about unions not doing things for people. He seems to forget that a union is simply a collection of people. Anything that a union does must be in the interests of people. Certainly, any action that a union takes on any question is in the interests of its members. The  members live 24  hours a day, not just the 8 hours they are at work. 
As my knowledgeable friend the honourable member for Gellibrand said, it is true that the National Civic Council had a great influence on the Government in the taking of this decision. The Federated Clerks Union- under the Federal presidency of  Mr John  Maynes, a noted member of the NCC- certainly has been instrumental in influencing this decision. The honourable member for Wilmot spoke about extremist groups within the community using the trade union movement. He probably was sniping at the communists. If I read from a cutting I took from a local newspaper that is circulated in the general area, of my electorate-it is dated 4 September 1975-1 think that honourable members may obtain a fair indication of how even the Liberal Party is involved with extremist groups, this one being the National Civic Council which is of the extreme right. The heading states in bold type: National Civic Council Meeting at Gisborne'. The article states: 

 Mr Gerald Mercer, national secretary of the National Civic Council, is to address a suppOrt function at Gisborne Golf Club on Tuesday, 9 September. 
The National Civic Council, an organisation which for the past 30 years has been involved in events and developments in the industrial and political areas, is currently consolidating and widening its base of support in Gisborne, Sunbury, Woodend and surrounding areas. 

 Mr Dudley Erwin, MHR as he then was- 

 Mr John Bourchier, MHR as he now is- 

 Mr Fred Grimwade, MLC, and  Mr Athol  Guy, MLA, have lent their names as patrons for the function. 
It seems to me that that is an example of an organisation with a charter to destroy the trade union movement in Australia being supported by members of the Liberal Party. Each of the gentlemen I have mentioned is a member of the Liberal Party. Some of them are still members of the Parliamentary Liberal Party. So this danger exists. The Bill before the House will perpetuate the present position. This is because it denies a right which was given to people in the 1 973 legislation and which they are to take up before 13 November 1976. The measure introduced in 1973 ensures that the rank and file members of the union have a say in who shall manage the affairs of their union. I believe that the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  must take the cake as an exercise in prolixity and hypocrisy. For example, he says in the very first sentence: 
All members of the Parliament are, I am sure, committed to democratic control of trade unions and employer organisations. The cornerstone of democratic control is membership participation. 
Having said that, he then goes on to introduce into the House a Bill that denies trade union members the right directly to select their officials. The Bill allows them to elect colleges. I do not know whether the Government suddenly has been imbued with the American presidential system because it is that time of the year; but we in the Australian Labor Party- we spell this out very loudly in our policy- firmly believe that there should be full rank and file participation in the affairs of unions. We have never walked away from it. We believe in it. The Minister goes on to say: 
The fact is, however, that direct election is not, in all situations, a guarantee of proper democratic control. 
I would be most grateful if somebody would explain to me what those words mean. The Minister tried to explain them by saying: 
For example, direct voting may result, in an organisation which has a substantial proportion of its total membership in one branch, in the smaller branches having no representation on the management committee. 
What does the Minister expect? Does he think that people are elected as officials of unions simply because they stand for election? He should know that people are elected as officials of trade unions because of their known capacity, a capacity that is known by the members of the union. Does he think that members of the union are so stupid that they cannot recognise a job being done by somebody? Does he think that a contender for office is so stupid as to think that all he has to do is put in a nomination for the job? If the Minister lived in the real world he would know that at all times people are very vigorous in this area. They do campaign. They do become known. Their abilities or otherwise become known also. For these reasons, it is sheer hogwash to say for example, because a general secretary of a union is elected from New South Wales that he is elected from that State simply because there are more people in that State. I have pointed out to the House already that the colleges of all unions, without exception, are not equally representative of the States. There is a greater number of members of the colleges from the larger States. I repeat that that is as it should be. 
The Minister also stated in his second reading speech: 
The amendments proposed will now give organisations a choice in the manner by which they elect their officers, whether full time or part time. 
He states that the Bill will give organisations a choice. Why did not the Minister say that it will give members of organisations a choice? He did not come to deal with that point. He spoke about organisations. Clearly, he must be speaking about those who have themselves firmly entrenched in office and who will go to any lengths to ensure that they are not removed from their positions. The Minister, if he has as much concern for the affairs of trade unions as the honourable member for Wilmot would have us believe he has, ought to be talking about members and not about organisations or officers of unions. It is well known to the Minister, for example, that  Mr Ted  Bull, the secretary of the 
Waterside Workers Federation in Victoria is a communist. That union has a 99 per cent turnout on election day. The members stop work to vote. Voting is compulsory. The members are fined if they do not vote. So, if the Minister and his Government are aiming their shafts at those people who prefer to belong to a political party different from the Government Parties- frankly, I do not blame people for doing that- they certainly are aiming in the wrong direction. History shows that he is wrong and future examples will show him to be wrong also. 
The contents of this Bill revolve purely and simply around the whole question of whether there is to be democratic election of people in trade unions. As the Act stands at the moment, there certainly is. The interferences proposed to the Act by this Bill will take away from the members their right to that. They must elect people. Those people in turn have the right to cast votes. There is no guarantee that they will cast the votes they now have in the way that those who voted for them want them cast. Therefore, a situation could arise in which the brutal force of numbers was used. We have heard about that. The brutal force of numbers or all sorts of persuasive means could be used to influence members of a college to change their vote so that it would not reflect the vote of those who elected them- their constituents. For those reasons, I oppose the Bill. My Party opposes the Bill. We see absolutely no reason to allow it to go through the House unhindered. It should have every impediment placed in its way. 
In fact, I notice that, even though the Bill has just come out of the gestation period and has just seen the light of day, the Government already proposes to make 2 amendments to it. It is hastily prepared legislation. It was prepared without consultation with anybody. My colleague, the honourable member for Gellibrand, pointed out that the peak councils were not consulted. He also read a letter that was written by a Federal councillor of the Federated Clerks Union who is a member of the Liberal Party. The other day I was reading a copy of  Hansard  in which an honourable member was recorded as saying by way of interjection that there were no Liberal Party members acting as officials of trade unions. There is a fellow who is a Federal councillor of a union and a member of the Liberal Party. He has written to the Federal President of the Liberal Party complaining about the lack of consultation with even the Federated Clerks Union of Australia. I presume he was speaking of it as a body rather than speaking about its Federal President, the infamous and notorious John 
Maynes, who has strutted the roost of the industrial movement in Australia in an avowed attempt to destroy it. This Government piously says that it does not mind having unions. It should add that it would rather have unions such as there are in Malaysia and Singapore, unions which have had their teeth drawn. The only unions in the Government's view with which it would agree are those which in turn agree with the attitude of the Government and of employers. 
The organised work force in Australia is entitled to something better than that. It is entitled to have representatives to put its point of view and those representatives are entitled to speak freely. They should not be muzzled by this Government in connivance with the National Civil Council so that all that is heard is the voice of those who are elected, those that they have elected. Those who then come to power in the unions are second hand and come not through the honest straightforward ballot as we know union ballots are now but through a system which can be manipulated. It is because it can be manipulated that people like John Maynes support it. If it was honest and straightforward he would not support it. He is a person who has manipulated all his life and that is the reason he would support this situation. Frankly, when he is speaking to this Government he is speaking to a bunch of top manipulators anyhow. 
I doubt that the Committee has ever been treated to a more ill-informed dissertation on what trade unions and this amendment are all about than we have just heard from the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  I take issue with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who proclaimed across the table to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that this matter was known to the community before today. To my knowledge- I keep a very close ear to the ground- I heard a whisper of this yesterday from an honourable senator. Today it was only when the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) was being debated that this amendment was distributed to me. If honourable members care to read my speech in  Hansard  tomorrow they will see that I made mention of an amendment which was laid on the table while I was speaking. I said that I did not have time to consider it or understand it. That is the sort of notice that was given. 
The honourable member for St George made great play about the collegiate system being very democratic. The honourable gentleman has been quite active in the Parliament since he has been here. Whether he has been successful is another matter. I read from page 1657 of  Hansard  of Wednesday, 28 April 1976 where a petition was presented to the Parliament by the honourable member for St George. It states: 
Trade Union Movement: Compulsory Voting 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: That whereas the Democratic control of organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is essential to a sound system of industrial relations; and whereas Democratic control can only be guaranteed by the opportunity for all rank and file members of organisations to vote in elections for all officials and all Committees of Management and whereas some forces within the Trade Union movement are attempting to deny rank and file members the right to vote in all Union elections;- 
I hope the honourable member is listening. The petition continues: 
Your petitioners humbly pray - 
The words are repeated- that the members in Parliament assembled - 
The honourable member is one of those members- will take steps to: 
Preserve Democracy in Trade Unions by guaranteeing the right of all members to participate in rank and file ballots for officials and Committees of Management. 
Resist the pressures from those elements in the Trade Union Movement seeking to deny members the right to vote. 
He is speaking of the National Civic Council, I guess. The petition further states: 
Ensure the widest participation in Union ballots by making voting compulsory in union elections. 
Resist the re-introduction of the undemocratic collegiate system of union elections, which enables control and manipulation by minority and extremist elements. 
This is a petition which the honourable member supported in the Parliament. It concludes: 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 

 Mr Chairman, have you ever seen such an exhibition of hypocrisy, such a turnaround by any honourable member in the Parliament who has presented a petition like that and then addresses the Parliament for 10 minutes in a complete denial of the petition? The honourable member said that the Australian Labor Party created the difficulty because it brought about rank and file elections. He said that a member must first be elected to the college. The honourable member overlooks the amendment. The Bill states that people elected to office shall be elected by and from the college. That is stated in clause 3. The amendment does not state that at all. It moves away from that position. It talks about people being elected by the college, 1 5 per cent of whom are eligible to stand but they are not elected by the rank and file who are eligible to vote. If that means that 100 per cent of the college is elected by the rank and file then I am surprised that the honourable member, who I understand is a practitioner in law, does not understand the words and the language. Clearly he does not understand. 
He said that there are too many trade -unions. I could not agree more. That was probably the only sensible thing he said in 10 minutes. There are too many trade unions in Australia, and there are any number of trade unionists who will agree with that. But when the Labor Party, during its term of office, endeavoured to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, who was it who frustrated that attempt to make it easier for unions to amalgamate? I will tell the Committee who it was. It was the then Opposition- the Liberal Party and National Country Party senators, who threw it out. They said that they did not want unions to amalgamate. Now we have a new breed of Liberal member in the House who tells us that unions should amalgamate. I wish he had been here before. The honourable member also used the hoary old argument about 1.8 per cent of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union membership electing  Mr Scott  as the Federal  president  of the union. Does the honourable member realise that with the introduction of the collegiate system it will be not 1.8 per cent of the membership which will elect the officers of the union but something like .0008 per cent of the membership? 
I opposed the initial wording of this clause of the Bill and the amendment does nothing to improve it. In fact, it makes it worse. The Bill reinforces an already undemocratic position, because it moves away from rank and file elections and moves to a collegiate system. An argument has been put that the collegiate system gives a fair go to the smaller States. It was said that if somebody from a smaller State wanted to run for office he would face an enormous postal bill because he would have to contact every union member. Does anybody in this chamber seriously believe that to become the Federal secretary of a union in Australia a man simply picks himself up off the floor and nominates ibr the position? Of course nobody believes that. Government members say it because it sounds good. They know in their hearts that it is not true. They know in their hearts that if somebody is going to stand for a senior position in any organisation in Australia, quite apart from the trade unions, he does not pick himself up off the floor and nominate. He is already known within the organisation; he has already done the background work which brings him to a position where he will be recognised. Unless he has done that, he can spend as much money as he likes on postal bills but he will have little hope of success, because the human mind just does not work in that way. 
So away with all of this nonsense. The collegiate system does not preserve the rights of the smaller States. All that it does is take away from the rank and file members their right to cast thenvotes directly. They have to do that second hand. They have to vote to elect somebody whom they may or may not be able to trust when he casts his vote. It seems to me that that will not work. It is wrong, and it has been wrong in the past. It did not work very well then. As the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  said in the petition that he presented to the House, it is open to manipulation. Of course it is, and in this area when one is dealing with the members of the National Civic Council one is dealing with the greatest manipulators in the world. We always come back to John Peter Maynes. We always come back to the NCC. Without the influence of this small, unrepresentative, undemocratic, and I might say un-Australian group, there would be no need for this amendment to come forward. It was thrust upon the Government. 
I know that the Minister is embarrassed. One can see, by looking at him, that he is embarrassed.  His  face was scarlet when he was challenged with this by the honourable member for Gellibrand, and now he is trying to laugh it off to cover up his embarrassment. He knows that this position was thrust upon him by people for whom he does not have very much time; but he also knows that without their support he might not remain the member for Corangamite. He wants to remain the member for Corangamite because he likes being a Minister; but that will pertain only until the next election. It is a great pity that the Government has decided to use its brutal weight of numbers in this place and in another place to thrust this provision upon trade unions without any consultation at all between the Minister and the trade unions. Consultation went on for months with John Peter Maynes, but with nobody else. Not even the Federal Council of the Federated Clerks Union was consulted, and neither was the ACTU nor any of the other peak union councils. This provision is being thrust upon the rank and file members of unions. If they decline to accept it, then this Government has only itself to blame. 
I was stung to rise by the speech of the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife).  I intended to sit quietly and listen to the debate, but when one hears inaccurate statements made in this House it becomes incumbent to stand and correct them. It is not my intention to be as reckless as the 2 Government supporters have been in this debate. They have placed in danger a dispute that has arisen after 19 months of negotiation between the unions and John Fairfax Limited, the newspaper company. Members of the unions involved are meeting tomorrow in an endeavour to resolve a problem that is recognised by everybody as being serious. To raise this matter in the House today and to speak about it in the way that the Government members have will do nothing to calm the tempers of the people who are already angry through 19 months of frustration and inability to reach settlements with those with whom they are negotiating. 
-For the benefit of those honourable members who obviously have no knowledge whatsoever of this matter and who will be persuaded by the well-known and far out anti-union rhetoric of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the people working in newspapers work to agreements which generally run for 2 years. Prior to agreements expiring negotiations are held between the unions and the management in order to draw up another agreement for another 2 years. These agreements are honoured during the time of their currency. This agreement expired 19 months ago. It has been out of date for almost as long as the term of the period of the agreement itself. For 19 months negotiations have constantly taken place and the company has stood flatfooted and just said: 'No'. The company has not negotiated any of the points. It finally conceded on the question of retrenchments brought about by technological change. The other 3 issues quite rightly, as has been said, have been deferred pending the outcome of the national wage case because of the claim that they would be in breach of the indexation guidelines. 
The whole point about the foolishness of this debate today is that matters of public importance are raised in this House for the Government to take some action. Government supporters have raised the issue but no Government Minister has joined in the debate. That shows how much importance the Government places on this matter. Yesterday we debated a matter concerning unions. The honourable member for Farrer has claimed that the executives of the unions are pushing their members around and telling them what to do and how to do it. He has talked about lack of rank and file control. Had he listened to the debate yesterday in this House he would have learned how the Government took away from rank and file unionists the right to determine their own executive officers. Now this matter is raised as a complaint. He made what he believed was an axiomatic statement- that profitability increases job opportunity. That is a very nice sounding phrase but I invite him to give us one example of where it has ever been shown to be true. The newspaper industry is becoming more and more mechanised, and even if it becomes more and more profitable, and it seems to me that every time I buy a newspaper it is a cent dearer than it was the last time I bought one, and I buy one every day, there always will be an attempt to keep the wage bill down. So profitability has no relationship at all to job opportunities. They are dissociated and different things. 
Of course the Medibank levy has to do with wages. Who could argue other than that? It is a direct 2V4 per cent out of each man's pay packet so it has to do with wages. It is a great tragedy that this matter was brought up today. It certainly was not done in the spirit of helping to resolve an awkward dispute which pleases nobody. Members of the trade unions are quite happy to come together tomorrow to make their decisions on what they should do and how they should do it. They do not need to be inflamed by the speeches /of honourable members opposite today, speeches which will do nothing to resolve the situation. It is not pouring oil on troubled waters. The speeches were designed to put out a fire with a tin of petrol. It is to be deplored by every thinking person in this House and in the community that people will stand in this House and use the privilege of it to incite and inflame others who are at this moment deciding among themselves how a difficult situation can be resolved. 
That is all I wanted to say on the matter. It is not a question of standing here as we have been invited to do and defending those who have withdrawn their labour. None of these things can be considered  in toto.  Nobody can stand firm and support every strike that has ever been held just as nobody can stand firm and condemn every strike that has ever been held. They are matters which have to be considered on their merits and the merits and details of each are not known intimately to every honourable member in this House. The raising of this matter today was most unwise. It was a foolish exercise involving a proposition that cannot be answered. So I do not intend to buy in to that silly dog fight but simply to repeat that it is a great tragedy that this matter was raised in the House today. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
-My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is it true that company tax payments for the first 4 months of this financial year are approximately $500m below those for the same period last year? Is it also true that if these tax payments had been collected the annual rate of growth of the broadly defined money supply would have been approximately 1 1 per cent? Would such a growth in the money supply have meant that the latest monetary measures would have been unnecessary and the consequent fears of renewed recession would have been averted? 
It is regrettable that at a time of economic recession we have to listen to such speeches as that made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  In his comments about the community youth support scheme he neglected to tell the House that the whole concept of that scheme has been rejected by all the youth organisations throughout Australia. He neglected to tell the House that the whole thing was just a window dressing scheme by the present Government because it has no thoughts of its own to solve the problem of the highest unemployment rate in this country for the past 40 years. He forgot to tell us that this is being presided over by a government which when in Opposition sought government by somewhat shonky means in 1975 and which told the people that the then Labor Government presided over the highest unemployment for 40 years. I have news for those who now sit on the Government side. They have eclipsed the record they thought the Austraiian Labor Party held. They now preside over the highest rate of unemployment of any government in this country in the past 40 years, yet they seem to take some pride in the matter and laugh about it. 
I remind them that this is November and that at the end of this month and early next month 100 000 young Australians will be coming on to the employment market. There are already more than 300 000 Australians without jobs and this number will be added to by those who leave school this year. The Government has done nothing about this problem except to provide a window dressing exercise which the honourable member for Denison exposed tonight- the sort of window dressing exercise which has been rejected by all youth councils throughout this country and by those who are concerned for the employment of young people, rejected as being without foundation. I invite the honourable member to read the proposition put forward by the Minister for unemployment - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I had no intention of rising to speak in this debate this evening. I came in to try to be informed by the debate in this House but I am sadly disappointed with the speech of the honourable member for Eden- Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  who has just spoken. It seems to me that he has the idea that in the education system in this country people blindly and meekly accept those things which are put to them. As was stated by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  this thinking is in line with Liberal Party philosophy. If you do not agree with the philosophy of that Party, you receive a brand and all sorts of names are hung upon you. If that does not work, the eminent  President  of that Party writes letters to the Press and to a Prime Minister urging that the Press be brought into line. 
I always thought, in my own limited way, that the purpose of education was to make people question those things which are about them and not to accept blindly things that are put to them. When they do that, when they raise questions about what is happening around them and do not blindly accept what is happening, members like the honourable member for Eden-Monaro stand up in this House and say that there is something wrong with the education system. If there is anything wrong with the education system, it is that not enough emphasis is given to the questioning of things that go on around people. There is not enough encouragement given to people to question things that are happening, to question the motives of those who are doing those things and to question what is happening all around us all the time. The honourable member spoke about the amount of money spent on education and claimed it was being wasted. I put it to him that a far greater amount of money is spent on the education of a pupil in the private schools such as Geelong Grammar and Melbourne Grammar than there is on any workers' child who has to attend a school that is run by the State. Is the honourable member saying that, because that large amount of money is spent per pupil in those schools, they turn out dunderheads? 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is a product of one of those schools and I might have to eat my words. However, it seems to me that by and large he would support that sort of system. I, in turn, support the system where every child in this country, irrespective of the station in life of his parents and the depth of his parents' pockets, has the right to a proper education. The teachers in this country should not be regimented by people such as the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and those who support his attitude to prevent their students from becoming involved in demonstrations. I remind the honourable member that if it had not been for demonstrations around this world in the decade that led up to 1970, the world would still be involved in the holocaust that was Vietnam. It was the people coming onto the streets in the United States of America, in Britain and other countries around the world and questioning the right of those who had been elected to government to take decisions and the morality of those decisions that forced governments as powerful as the Government of the United States to withdraw its troops from Vietnam. 
If this sort of result is to be brought about by demonstrations, then I support demonstrations wholeheartedly. School students ought to be taught to demonstrate against things that they consider to be immoral, unjust and improper. To suggest to this House and to the people of this country that teachers ought to say to children: You have no right to question these things; as your teacher my word is law' is to place a teacher in the position of a person who rules a totalitarian country. 
-I did not suggest that the honourable member said this but if he wants to take the bait, it is entirely up to him. All that I said was that it was improper to suggest these things. If that bothers his conscience, let him take the bait. I want to dissociate myself and I am sure all of my colleagues and comrades who sit with me on this side of the House - 
-I remind the honourable member for Riverina that next time he attends the Returned Services League he will find somebody there who will call him a comrade. I want to dissociate myself and my colleagues from the remarks made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. I do not believe that what he has put to the House tonight is the proper situation of education in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he has seen reports that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is once again to infiltrate and spy upon trade unions m Australia. Will he assure the House that those reports of such an obnoxious practice are without foundation? 
-I address my question to the Treasurer and refer to reports that the Reserve Bank has been instructed to insulate the rural sector from recent interest rate increases. What effect is this likely to have on the supply of credit to farmers? What measures does the Minister contemplate to compensate suppliers of rural credit? 
I do not support the legislation, but I welcome its introduction to the House because it has opened up debate on this very vexed question. I did not count accurately the number of times that the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  used the term .....'....... appointments' this afternoon, but I think he did so on 30 different occasions. It seems to me that small thinking people such as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who grab hold of political cliches such as that and bounce them around the country, to short term political advantage, eventually find themselves painted into a corner. The introduction of the Bill is an admission by the Government that no longer will Australia see long term governments such as it saw with the Menzies Government and other Liberal-Country Party governments, which were in power for 23 years. I do not Uke using the term 'permanent heads'. I know of only 2 things in this world that are permanent, and they are death and taxes. I do not think one can adequately apply the terminology permanent' to a head of a department. I think they are heads of departments, and that phrase adequately describes them. This Bill is an acknowledgment by the present Government that there will be changes in government and that future governments will not have the advantage that  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, had of a continuing bureaucracy- a whole generation of it that did not need any tickling up. 
The people in the top level-the First Division- are the POliCY people in the Public Service. Underneath them are the administrators, managers and so on. The top level contains the pOliCy people. They are there to bring forward suggestions for POliCY to the Government. It would seems to me that in the situation we have at the moment the crazy chaotic situation could occur in which someone who was diametrically opposed- I think that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  used the term 'political neuters', but of course they are not- to the political philosophy of the government of the day could, if he or she so chose, be obstructive. I think it is desirable that government should have flexibility in this area. 
I just want to clear up a point that I made about my opposition to the use of the word 'permanent'. It seems that this word pervades all of the Public Service. One keeps running into the words 'permanent' and 'permanency'. These words seem to pop up all the time. On reflection, it would seem that these words were used initially by the government of the day to attract people into the Public Service. Salaries paid to people working in the Public Service at the time were notoriously low and to attract people into the Public Service the government of the day gave something which did not cost it very much. People who worked on the railways and in all sorts of government jobs were given permanency. I remember that during the Depression years anyone whose father had a job in the Public Service counted himself well off because there was the guarantee of at least some work. But that situation has changed. I think that the salaries that are now paid to public servants are comparable to salaries paid in the community generally. Although I am not sure, in some instances possibly salaries received by members of the Public Service are in excess of salaries received in industry. But I believe that the protection and the benefits that were always given to people who joined the Public Service, the inducement of permanency that was held out to them, do not seem to be as relevant in the 1970s as in the early years of this century. So I would not Uke to see that expression used again. 
Reading the provisions contained in the BUI it seems to me that on the one hand the Government wants to do something but on the other hand it is perhaps a little afraid of the bureaucracy and so it is not prepared to go all the way. As a result there has been a marriage of convenience. However, I am afraid that the child is mutated. This whole measure is incestuous in terms of its concept and operation. The  Chairman  of the Public Service Board is to have the ultimate authority. He has only to consult with the Prime Minister. I suppose that means that he need only ring him up and say: 'How are you going? What do you think about this?' The Prime Minister might say: 'Oh, I would not Uke that'. So the  Chairman  could hang the phone up and go ahead and do it anyhow. That is aU that consultation amounts to. There is no direction by the Prime Minister. The  Chairman  of the Public Service Board has only to consult. The effect of the legislation would be to turn over to the chief mandarin all of the functions which would allow him to build his own dynasty around him. He will certainly do that, and that comment is no reflection on the man who now holds the position. I am just simply saying that he is a man, and because of that aU of the temptations contained in the Bill Will be open to him. I do not think that that ought to be the case. I would prefer to see a stronger control exercised by the government and the executive of the day. 
Mention has been made of political appointments. Of course there are political appointments. I am not ashamed of that. I think that the appointments that were made by Labor when it was in office were probably the best appointments that were ever made to this level of the Public Service. Nobody can say otherwise. Nobody has ever said a word against the people who were appointed. The present Government shovelled off Labor Party appointees because they confessed that they had a different political philosophy. These people accepted the decision of the Government. I do not think they were terribly disappointed with the treatment they received. We are not dealing with shrinking violets. We are not dealing with anything that is tender and cuddly and has to be protected. We are dealing with people who are worldly wise; people who are as well aware as I am of what is going on around them. As I said, the only 2 things that are certain in this world are death and taxes. These people are well aware of that. The Government does not need to write all of this nonsense into the Bill to try to protect them from this, that and the other. 
Why must the Public Service, which I have heard described as a career structure, stand distinct from the rest of our community in respect of salaries and career prospects? What does it do that is different from the things done by the rest of our community? What does it do that commerce and trade do not do every day of the week? Therefore one should be looking at careers in the whole broad spectrum of the Australian community and not in one localised section of it. I do not want to go on and on about this matter, although I probably could. My principal objection is the incestuous nature of the Bill where the Public Service is allowed to self perpetuate itself. I think that the executive and the government of the day should have more say in this respect. 
I tried very hard to read the Bill. I got through most of it. However, proposed new section 54 (9) states: 
The Governor-General may, before the expiration of the period for which the person is appointed to hold office, terminate the appointment of the person on the recommendation of the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister who makes the recommendation is not a member of- 
the political party of which the Prime Minister on whose recommendation the person was appointed was a member at the time when the person was appointed; 
I thought that was pretty good. I thought about what could happen under this proposed new section. For example, a Liberal Prime Minister of a coalition could meet with an unfortunate accident and be replaced by a National Country Party Prime Minister until the Liberals could elect a new Leader. But such a person would not come from the same political party as the Prime Minister who was replaced. Therefore the National Country Party Prime Minister could get rid of the people appointed by the Liberal Prime Minister and appoint others. But when the Liberals then elected a Liberal Prime Minister, that person would not be of the same political party as the National Country Party Prime Minister. Therefore the Liberal Prime Minister could get rid of the people appointed by the Country Party Prime Minister and could appoint other people. I thought that this was a really good example and I could see how some really funny situations could arise. I can understand that such a farcical situation could arise. But that is not the worst of it. Cop a load of this. Paragraph (b) of the proposed sub-section states: a political party of which any other person who held office as a Minister at that time was then a member. 
Perhaps the Minister in charge of the Bill will be kind enough to inform me when he is summing up just exactly what that paragraph means because I am completely confounded. I have spoken to people who have a much wider knowledge of the English language than I and they confess to being even more confused. It is just gobbledegook. Why does not the Bill propose that if, for example, the Labor Party appoints people the Liberal Party on coming to power will have the option of getting rid of them? I cannot blame the draftsman for what is in the Bill because he had some kind words said about him today. But the sort of gobbledegook that is in the Bill does not help anybody at all. It does not mean anything. It is a great heap of nonsense. The Bill would be stronger if it was not there or if the provision was put in English that I could understand, and that is pretty plain and basic English. 
-Not necessarily in 4-letter words. Some of the words that I know that are unacceptable contain 7 letters. I have drawn the attention of honourable members to the main points that I wanted to raise. I do not support the Bill. The Bill has been introduced by people looking for short term political gain. These people have thought up cliches that are easy to say in public, are easily remembered by people and are built up into mountains when in fact they are molehills. The language used in the Bill is unnecessary. If straight out language was used I would have absolutely no opposition to the Bill. In fact I would support the right of a Government to choose the people who are to move into the area of recommending policy to it. 
Talk about the career structure. I think that every private soldier has been told that there is a field marshal's baton in his knapsack. I think that we have had only one field marshal in this country. Everybody knows that such an objective should not to be taken seriously. In 1969 the fine intelligent electors of Burke and people in the Labor Party- said to me: 'We will send you off to Canberra, my boy, and it will not be very long before we see you as Prime Minister of this country.' I think that they were just trying to get me out of the federal division of Burke and up here out of the way. But that is the sort of thing that is said. Everyone knows in his own heart that very few people ever gravitate to the top echelon jobs and that these people do not necessarily have to come from within the Service. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I ask: Is it true that, following a decision by  Mr Commissioner  Clarkson of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 24 August 1976, the Minister met with the managing directors of the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd, General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and Chrysler Australia Ltd to ascertain whether they intended to appeal, and did they reply in the negative? Did he unsuccessfully attempt - 
I am pleased to have the opportunity to follow the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  because it is quite clear from his address to this House this evening that the subject on which he spent most of the time available to him- trade unions- is a subject of which he has abysmal ignorance. He clearly comes from the Establishment. He represents an area that does not support those who believe in trade unions, although there are, of course, people in his electorate who do not vote for him and they are the people who do support the trade unions; they probably comprise the intelligent sector of his electorate. Clearly, from what he told us this evening, he has no knowledge whatsoever as to how a trade union functions. Because he comes from the Establishment he can see things only in the hierarchical structure and it has not yet reached his mentality that the people who take the decisions relating to trade unions are the members. Trade unions are democratic organisations, not like the political party to which the honourable member belongs and not like the other functions with which he associates. There is no direction in trade union movements. The decision is taken by the members of the unions and this is why people do band together: They are not instructed to do things; they come together of their own volition. This is why they take the action they do take, not because the voice comes down from the top. 
The honourable member quoted- to use his words, they are not mine-a noted socialist, Paul Johnson. Unfortunately I have not had the time to dig out the statements in which Paul Johnson has union bashed even harder than the honourable member did tonight. Yet the honourable member holds him up as a paragon of the trade union movement throughout the world. Why did the honourable member not quote George Meany and go on from there? He said trade unions were all right. I know what he means. He means the Federated Clerks Union of Australia, the Australian Society of Carpenters and Joiners and all of those unions that are nice and respectable and will not to anything to upset the Establishment. 
I want to speak on the same subject in regard to the Bill but before I leave the remarks of the honourable member I think it ought to be said that he spoke about the field of endeavour being exceeded by unions and then he went on to mention the Medibank levy. I do wish that the honourable member would be completely honest with the people of Australia and tell them that in his view, although 2.5 per cent of their income is now taken out of their salaries, this is not affecting their living conditions. I fail to see the logic in his argument. If I were back on the job I would be leading the fight to stop people from levying 2.5 per cent of my pay when the previous Government did not find this to be necessary. Of course it affects my standard of living. Of course it affects my income. The honourable member conceded that unions had a legitimate right to defend the incomes of their members. Then he denies them the right to strike because their salaries are going to be levied to pay for Medibank. Why does he not be logical and honest with us? Why does he not be consistent? 
This Bill for an Act relating to trade practices is introduced by the Government in a very curious way, and this has already been raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
-If the honourable member for Parramatta will restrain himself I will come to that point later and explain to himclearly, he has not read section 45  (d)  eitherexactly what that section says. It is one to which I am objecting along with a number of others. In his second reading speech on 8 December 1976 the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  said: 
In April this year the Government established a committee to review the Trade Practices Act. That committee reported last August and the report was immediately made public. This Bill implements certain recommendations - ' Certain recommendations '- of that committee. It is the intention of the Government that the Bill be exposed at this time to allow detailed examination of its provisions by all interested persons. We invite submissions on any aspect of the Bill. 
In concluding his speech the Minister repeated his appeal when he said: 
I emphasise that the Government does not intend to rush into amending this technical legislation without adequate consultation with and study by the community. 
What an extraordinary way of doing things! One would have thought that the committee's report was a document that deserved and needed public scrutiny. As the Minister concedes, the committee recommended on a number of matters which are not contained in the present Bill and which he did not mention in his speech. He did list some of these things as an example and tell us that they are still under consideration by the Government. If the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  is really seeking a consensus view, it would seem eminently more sensible to me to seek public discussion on the Committee's report or for the Minister to make a statement and invite submissions on that so that the broad principles can be discussed. Otherwise we have a Bill which will be looked at and amended, which means that this Bill will be withdrawn and another one introduced. That seems to be a messy way of doing things. Because of the major surgery being performed oh the Trade Practices Act and the new areas intended to be embraced by the amended Act and the Government's curious handling of the Bill, the dogs in my town are barking that the Government does not intend to pass or proclaim the Bill but is prepared to see it die in the prorogation of the Parliament. Time, of course, will tell whether the dogs in my town are smart. I think I have the smartest dogs in Australia living in my town. 
If they are correct, what is the Government trying to do? I believe that the Government is using this Bill as a weapon and that it intends to let the Bill lie upon the table with the threat that if there is any disruption in any area at all, the 
Government will pick up the weapon and use it. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  raised the question of unions being specifically excluded. I guess he is referring to clause 5 1 of the Bill. If he cares to read clause 45D he will find that it mentions only in the margin boycotts by employees. For the edification of the honourable member I would like to read that clause. I think it is important that it be read. The honourable member is a lawyer and therefore he should have some command of the Queen's English and should be able to understand what it says. Perhaps if I read it slowly and go through it word by word he may be able to follow me and know better what I am talking about. 
-As the honourable member for Banks reminds me, even he might. Clause 45D is in these terms: 
*45d. An employee of a person (in this section referred to as the "employer ) shall not engage in conduct in concert with another person or other persons (whether or not the other person is also an employee, or the other persons are also employees, of the employer) for the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services  by  the employer to a corporation if the hindering or preventing of the supply of those goods or services by the employer to the corporation would, or would be likely to, have a substantial adverse effect on the business of the corporation. 
I repeat the point I made before. Nowhere in that clause are the words 'boycott 'or 'secondary boycott' used. Certainly there are exemptions in another part of the Bill. Perhaps the Minister can tell the House in his closing address what happens when truck drivers, for example, who are not engaged in any boycott but who are protecting their wages positions, refuse to move materials from one establishment to another. If the other establishment happens to be a corporation and the action of the transport workers causes severe detriment or has a substantially adverse effect on the business of the corporation, are they not embraced by the clause? 
-If they are taking an action within one establishment in support of their comrades and their colleagues in another establishment, are they not also causing substantial - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  is listed as the next  speaker.  I suggest that he keeps his interjections and his comments until such time as he is making his speech. 
-I hope that his speech is more sensible than his interjections. Any action taken within establishment A, if it is supplying goods or services to establishment B, even if that action is taken to protect the wages and working conditions of the people in establishment A, or is taken in support of their brothers and sisters working in establishment B, would seem to me, from the best advice that I could get, to be embraced by that clause. Where is the exemption? It is certainly not in that clause. 
-I hope that the Minister can do so because it is one clause that it causing great distress to the trade union movement at the moment because it is too wide, too embracing and, furthermore, is in the wrong Bill. 
-It is in the wrong Bill because this Bill has now been put down as an umbrella to scoop up trade union movements in an area where they were never meant to be scooped up. Australia is probably unique in the world for its legislation dealing with trade unions and industrial organisations. It has the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
-The honourable member says 'equality before the law'. As a lawyer he will know that the law is equal to all. For example, rich men and poor men get arrested for sleeping under bridges. Rich men and poor men get arrested for begging in the streets, except that rich men never need to do those sorts of things. But the wording is specifically aimed at employees and, more especially, at their activities. I go back to the proposition which the honourable member for Parramatta called equality before the law. There is equality before the law in all areas but the honourable member has not taken the time and trouble to establish in his own mind the origin of the right of people to associate with one another to protect their own positions. This is the whole tenet on which the trade union movement was built and only in countries such as Australia, which has a totalitarian government, would one find such an action being taken to isolate an integral part of the fabric of our whole community- the trade union movement- and set it aside and say not that it will receive the same protection as everybody else but that it will receive special protection because it is engaged in special activities. 
It is my belief that there are 2 aspects which are open to challenge. The Government seems to be drawing its powers from placitum (xx) section S 1 of the Constitution which states:  . . . Foreign corporations, and trading or financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth . . . 
There has been great legal argument on this matter. I am not a lawyer- thanks be to Him abovebut it is obvious to anybody that trade unions do not fall within that definition of corporations. If they do not fall within that definition of corporations which are the only corporations over which the Commonwealth has power to make laws, how will the Government embrace them? How will it convince people that an individualagain I refer to clause 4SD which mentions an employee, a singular person-or a singular person is a corporation? Is the Government relying on him injuring a corporation or is it saying in the Bill that it is all right for him to belt hell out of one man businesses but that he cannot get into a corporation? Is that what the Government is saying? An employee can never be recognised as a corporation and yet the Government is quite prepared to post a penalty of $50,000 a day for any action that he might take. The Government cannot identify his organisation- the trade union- as a corporation because it does not fit in with the definition contained in the Constitution yet it is quite prepared to hit the union for a bill of $50,000 a day. Apart from that, the Government is also ignoring the International Labour Organisation conventions which Australia has ratified which give to people the right to associate. If the Government is going to take that right away from people- the Government is making a very strong attack on that in this Bill- it will strike at the very basis of a free and democratic society. It will take the same sort of tack that a fellow named Hitler took in Germany in the mid- 1930s and it will destroy the trade union movement. If the people of Australia- I ignore the figures in the poll quoted by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)-  allow the Government to do that, they must be prepared to accept the consequences. If any Government is prepared to attack the association of free people in a free country coming together for a legitimate purpose, it seems to me that the next step is not very far away from the situation I mentioned. It horrified me to think what the next step would be with people such as we have sitting on the other side of the chamber. 
The use of language of the Minister rather escapes me, because in the margin of the Bill he uses the word 'boycotts' and in the second reading speech he uses the term 'secondary boycotts'. We have always had a much simpler expression to describe these sorts of things; we have always called them black bans. Now we have another expression. What the Government proposes to do concerns the workers. Without them not much work will be done. You can manage as hard as you like but nothing will happen until somebody bares his back, bends his back and makes his brow sweat. The workers are the people who make things happen, not the managers. It is the workers who will make it happen. It is the managers who decide that, for the sake of greed, the workers will destroy a building or will build on land that would be better used by the community. 
The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  blithely talks about community interests. What about the matter we are discussing here? Greedy governments- they are generally made up of greedy land developers- want to develop public open space for their own speculative profit. How does the Government propose to stop them? But a group of trade unionists comes along- they are the people who dig the trenches to put in the foundations, lay the bricks and put up the steel- and says: 'We will not do it; we are acting in the public interest'. Because it is a corporation building which is involved the Government proposes to fine them for taking that action. But they are certainly acting in the public interest. Yet the Government wants to take punitive action against them. What those trade unionist s are doing is called a green ban, if honourable members opposite have not caught up with the colloquialism. That action is embraced by this secondary boycott provision. 
Let honourable members opposite figure it out. They do not know how dangerous that clause is. They have never thought about it. All those actions are. taken in the public interest. Whether or not the honourable member for Higgins thinks such actions are taken in the public interest is not relevant. History will show that they are taken in the public interest. But for the Government's short term gain honourable members opposite want to take punitive action against these people. Let me warn them against taking punitive action against the trade unions. For 23 years this country was governed by very conservative governments under a succession of very conservative Prime Ministers. During that time the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was changed. Every honourable member opposite will remember that. Penalties were provided for in that Act for bans and limitations. The same thing is occurring in this legislation. We are back to it again, except that this time the Government is trying to slip that provision into the Trade 
Practices Act. Previous governments had such a provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We wrote it out when we were in government. 
What did the present Government do then? It placed penalties against unions. When did it ever collect the money? When did it ever collect the fines? The only union that paid was the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia, and the only reason it paid was that it wanted to amalgamate with the Amalgamated Engineering Union, and it had to pay its fine to amalgamate. The Amalgamated Engineering Union owed the Government money. Did the Government collect that money? It is still owing. The Government did not have the courage to do it. If the Government did not have the courage to do it under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act how is it going to have the courage to do it under the Trade Practices Act? Why do we not have some honesty in this House? Why do not honourable members opposite tell us that all they are doing here is wagging a big stick. Nobody is quite sure whether they will be prepared to wield it. They are wagging it around their heads. It has happened before. They have had the opportunity. The Government had its penal clauses in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act but it never did anything about them. Is the Government prepared to do something about it in this case? If it is, then I am frightened of it, and I think the people of Australia ought to be frightened of it. 
There are many other provisions in this legislation. I just wanted to lay to rest this business that the unions must not stand above the law. They never have, they never did and they never will stand above the law. They are probably more law abiding than the people who sit on the other side of the House who used all sorts of extreme measures to get themselves on to those benches. Let me use another expression. I suppose that if a truck driver will not drive his truck down to another factory to deliver materials he is stopping supply. That has a familiar ring about it, has it not? So the Government intends to fine him $50,000 a day for stopping supply. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr SHIPTON (Higgins)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I take up the point raised by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  The report of the Public Works Committee will quite clearly show to 
I might just say in conclusion that I hope that honourable members will pay careful attention to both reports- the present report and the previous report- on the Williamstown Naval Dockyard. I think that after reading the reports honourable members would agree that Williamstown Naval Dockyard would probably be one of the best equipped dockyards in Australia. 
Perhaps I can allay some of the fears of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  in relation to the disappearance of his electorate. I have heard it on the grapevine that many honourable members opposite will be plugging for the disappearance of" Wannon before they will be plugging for the disappearance of Wimmera. It surprises me to hear these political bushrangers who sit in the corner seats to the left of the Labor Party stand up and weep every time redistributions are mentioned. They have quite a history of that sort of thing. They are notorious for it. I refer to the National Country Party, the same Party which rules in Queensland with 29 per cent of the popular vote. That Party is quite expert at rigging boundaries to get itself into power. I do not go along with the proposition put by the honourable member for Wimmera, namely, that there is a need to make country electorates smaller in area so that the member can serve it better. I believe that members could better represent their constituents if those who represented large areas lived in those large areas. I know that some honourable members who represent country electorates in fact live in capital cities. I think that proposition ought to be put to rest. I point out that it is not my intention to slur every person who represents a large electorate. However, some honourable members are able to do that. 
I have put the proposition before, and I will put it again, that the function of a member of Parliament in Australia is twofold. I mention them not necessarily in order of priority. One of his functions is to come into this chamber and cast a vote on a particular issue on behalf of the people who live in the electorate he represents. As I read the Constitution, that is my understanding of what it intends. The other function of a member of Parliament- this is a practice which has grown up more than anything else- is for him to endeavour personally to interview people in his electorate. Because of the time that we spend away from our electorates that, of course, is not possible. Therefore I do not believe we do the institution of Parliament very much good if we endeavour to prostitute the Constitution by making some electorates smaller in number than others. That would create a disadvantage for those in the smaller electorates compared with those in the larger electorates. When honourable members cast a vote in this place they ought to be representing as nearly as practicable, to use the words of the Constitution, the same number of people. 
The servicing of one's electorate, as I pointed out, is a different proposition altogether. If a member has a heavy work load he cannot do that adequately because he spends so much time away from his electorate. That is a job that can be done by staff and facilities provided for the member. I have said before, and I will say again- I stand by this proposition at all timesthat if the people of Australia demand service from their parliamentarians they must face up to the fact that they have to provide their parliamentarians with the tools with which to carry out their trade. 
-That is true. My friend from Corio is quite right More was done in that area by a Labor Minister than was ever done before. The people of Australia must face up to providing those facilities. If they expect service from their parliamentarians they must be prepared to buy him the tools with which to do his work, and that means providing staff in his electorate. 
The National Country Party- I have heard its supporters say this previously- seems to be a little bit crook on Tasmania. Could it perhaps be that it does not hold any seats in that State? Country Party supporters always raise the matter of only 5 members of the Parliament coming from Tasmania. It was not Labor Premiers who sat around the table and drafted that document called the Constitution; it was conservative Premiers. It is not so very many years ago that Tasmania was not the only State that had only 5 representatives in this place. It did not have the population to enable it to have greater representation. I well remember when South Australia and Western Australia were in that position. However, the population in those 2 States has grown and they nave advanced from that situation. It was anticipated by those who drafted the Constitution that that would happen for a variety of reasons. I do not wish to cast any slurs on the people who live on that beautiful island south of Australia. It just has not developed to the stage at which its population warrants even the 5 representatives that it has. After the next election it will have five even better representatives. I think it is almost an impossibility for the population of the island State to develop to the stage where it will have more than 5 representatives. 
-I do wish the honourable member would read the Constitution. It is not a very difficult document to read. It makes mention of the original States being represented by 5 members. If a new State were to be created, it would not automatically get 5 representatives. The Parliament will determine the representation of Territories and any new States that are created. So I do wish that the honourable member would read the Constitution. I would like him to propose to the people a referendum question which seeks to reduce Tasmania's representation in this Parliament. I do not think he has that sort of courage. 
I want to answer one other matter raised by the honourable member for Wimmera. He criticised me for interjecting when he said that the last major increase in the size of this House was in 1949. As I understand it, 2 additional members entered this place in 1949. The number of representatives increased from 123 to 125. 
-I beg your pardon; 75 to 125. Changes have been made in the number of representatives even since I have been in this place. Since 1969 we have seen the addition of the electorates of Fraser and Tangney so there are two more seats. When I entered the Parliament there were 125 seats and now there are 127 seats. I do not think anybody is good enough a prophet to predict how many seats there will be in this place when I leave it. There are 2 ways- probably three- of coming to the position of having a House of Representatives which is, as nearly as practicable, twice the size of the Senate. That position must be achieved following the recent High Court decision. However, I doubt that the third one would work in view of the fact that the High Court does not recognise the 300 000 people who live in the Territories as people of Australia. But I suppose we could count the senators from the Territories. Certainly a referendum could be put to the people, as was put in 1976, to break the nexus. This would permit the House of Representatives to increase its size without it being bound to being, as nearly as practicable, twice the size of the Senate. Alternatively, we could increase the Senate. I should like to meet the parliamentarian who would have enough courage to say that the Senate should be increased. 
-The honourable member for North Sydney says this. I do not think he quite realises that to increase the size of the Senate would mean the appointment of a further 24 senators. 
-If the honourable member is prepared to tell the people of 
Australia that he is prepared to increase the size of the Senate by almost 50 per cent he must be on his last legs in this Parliament. 
I suggest that the Senate should remain as it is or that it should be reduced- in fact, it should be abolished. It has served no useful purpose in the years that it has been there. Rather than increase its size, I think it should be diminished. Certainly its powers ought to be greatly curtailed. 
The clauses in the Bill to which the Opposition raises objection have been very eloquently dealt with by the Leader of the Opposition-the Leader of the Labor Party- the honourable Gough Whitlam. Clause 7 of the Bill is a matter of great concern to us in the Labor Party because it is another attempt by the National Country Party to get its own way. It could not get its way by having the Electoral Act changed to return the variation to 20 per cent above and below the quota. Honourable members will recall that that was changed during the Joint Sitting. The Act was then amended to provide for a variation of only 10 per cent. 
The National Country Party could not get its way. It then came up with the proposition that no electorate in the country should be larger in size than the smallest division in a city. On the face of it, that sounds very plausible. But I can use as an example my electorate, which has a high built in growth factor. This lines up with clause 10 of the Bill also. In 1968 when this division of Burke was created it had a voting population of 48 000 electors. Now, in 1977, which is almost 9 years later, it has very nearly 100 000 electors. In other words, it has doubled in size in almost 9 years. Clause 10 of the Bill almost prohibits a redistribution other than every 7 years. 
Taking as an example the electoral division of Mallee, which has over 50 000 electors, as my electoral division virtually had in 1968, that division now has 52 000 or 54 000 electors, whereas I now have 100 000 electors. This is the way in which divisions within a State can become completely out of balance, not through action by anybody but because the outer areas of Sydney and Melbourne- indeed, of all the capital citiesare the only places to which the increasing population can go to live. For various reasons these people do not want to go to live in the country areas and even those who live in the country areas go into the city to live. Therefore, the proposition put in clause 7 would perpetrate that sort of inequality. 
In 1968 the Distribution Commissioners were able to consider the division of Burke. It was known that the population within that division was going to increase rather dramatically so they were able to place it some thousands of voters below the quota, knowing that even by the time of the next election, which was some year and a half later, the division would very nearly be back to the quota. In fact, they were right. But they would not be able to do that under this legislation. They would have to place the federal division of Burke, or any other division that had a high in-built growth factor, on the quota. Otherwise, if they were able to bring down the size of the rapidly growing divisions to a particular figure, it would immediately set the size for every country division in the district. These divisions would then very soon, because of the growth factor effect, have numbers so far below those in the metropolitan areas that the whole thing would immediately become lopsided and distorted. 
I have always regarded it as being immoral for politicians to determine electoral boundaries and for them to talk about electoral matters. I think it is fair enough that they should express views on the matter because they are professionals in the field, but I think the decision-making process should not be theirs alone. I would support very strongly any move to utilise part of the High Court as an electoral commission to have exclusive responsibility for the setting of boundaries and for the determining, in line with our Constitution, such matters as are covered in the very clause which we are debating now, that is, clause 7, relating to the above and below quota variation. I do not think the determination of these issues should be the prerogative of parliamentarians. I think the community looks at the present situation with a jaundiced eye. The present situation certainly is open to misuse, as has happened over the years in various States. The latest example occurred again in Queensland. 
South Australia had the Liberal-Country League-  Sir Thomas  Playford 's Governmentruling for something like 30 years with a minority of votes. That sort of situation exists in Victoria. It is impossible for the Labor Party to go ahead because the boundaries are drawn up by a parliament in which the Labor Party does not have a majority. That situation is immoral. It is a wonder that it has been tolerated for so long. 
My suggestion about the removal of responsibility for the setting of boundaries from politicians is not unique. It happens now in South Australia. Appeals against divisions in South 
Australia are not determined by the South Australian Parliament; they are determined by the Supreme Court of South Australia. The Labor Government presented to the Parliament a redistribution proposal which was prepared by fair and reasonable people- I know that immediately excludes members of the National Country Party- who considered it to be a fair and reasonable redistribution. For about the first time it involved the principle of one vote one value, so that each of the voting citizens of our country, as nearly as was humanly possible, were fairly and equitably represented in the Parliament. It disadvantaged one of the major political parties- the National Country Party. I really do not think it disadvantaged the Liberal Party. Certainly, it did not advantage or disadvantage the Labor Party. Had the National Country Party been disadvantaged by it, it would not have been to the advantage of the Labor Party but to the advantage of the Liberal Party. So I do not think the Liberal Party was terribly displeased with the redistribution that came forward. But because of the rump that lives with it- these boundary bushrangers from the National Country Party- it was obliged to vote against the acceptance of that redistribution. In my view that was tragic and quite immoral. If there was objection to that redistribution proposal after it had been perused by the Parliament- I do not think the issues should have been decided by the Parliament because there are impediments- any objection to it should have been made to people who are above being accused of political bias, such as the judiciary. In our case I imagine we would be talking about the High Court, or a section of it, as an appropriate body to hear appeals and finally to determine the boundaries. I think the same should apply to this Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
The whole Bill tightens up a few nuts and bolts in line with the latest decision of the High Court. It is unfortunate that the Government bowed to the pressure of the National Country Party and introduced clause 7 into the Bill. I do not think it does anything to the Bill at all. It certainly does not improve it. It creates difficulties in an already difficult area. It certainly does not do what the National Country Party seems to be looking for all the time. Members of the Party seem to be always seeking smaller numbers of electors on the rather specious grounds in my view because their electorates are more difficult to service because of the area involved. 
Kalgoorlie is the largest electorate in Australia. I would not say that Kalgoorlie is the most difficult electorate in Australia to service. I believe that metropolitan electorates such as Wills or Grayndler, which are not very large electorates, would create greater difficulties in servicing than would the very large electorate of Kalgoorlie. I say that because people do not live in every nook and cranny in the electorate of Kalgoorlie. They live in centres which are connected by commercial airlines. There is no need for the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  to charter an aircraft even. All the community centres in his electorate are served by commercial airlines. Yet members of the National Country Party put the proposition that that is a very good reason why country electorates should contain fewer people than city electorates. It is not the Labor Party that is drawing the distinction between city and country people. We look upon all people of Australia as citizens of this nation. Every one of them hopefully will be treated fairly and equally in all of the institutions of this country, and Parliament is an institution. 
It is members of the National Country Party who, for cheap political gain, put forward the proposition that they need to have fewer people in their electorates than are in the city electorates. This does not necessarily affect the electorate. I repeat that I will never vote in this Parliament or anywhere else against a proposition that allows people with large areas to cover facilities that, in a relatively small electorate of some 1 500 square kilometres, do not need and do not want. That does not mean that I believe that facilities should not be provided for electorates which are above the benchmark. If the benchmark is to be 5000 square kilometres then so be it. I will not argue whether it should be 5000, 10 000, 15 000 or 20 000 square kilometres. The Remuneration Tribunal's report set the benchmark at 5000 square kilometres. If that is to be the benchmark the Government should make a submission to the Remuneration Tribunal to ensure that greater facilities are made available to the people who represent those areas. The Government should ensure that the majority of people in Australia are not disadvantaged by having their votes downgraded, with my vote being worth only half the vote of people in the seats of Wimmera or Mallee. That sort of situation in a democratic country such as Australia should not be tolerated. We are having it strapped upon us by clause 7 of the Bill which will perpetuate that sort of situation and even worse perpetuate it for at least 7 years at a time. 
-Has the Prime Minister said that he is opposed to machines replacing men? If so, why does he subsidise machines by giving a 40 per cent investment allowance, and penalise labour by allowing the continuation of payroll taxes? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I will take up the point last made by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  who has just resumed his seat. I should like to quote again the passage from the address to the Parliament by  Her  Majesty the Queen which he mentioned.  Her  Majesty said: 
Today the qualities of the Australian people, the character of Australian society and the resources of the Australian continent hold out a great promise and a great challenge. 
-I agree that it is a very fine statement. But surely that is the nub of the whole statement. It is what our whole society is all about. It is what our nation is all about and it is what we should be really discussing. It is on this point that the ideologies and socialist policies of the Australian Labor Party and the lack of policy of the other political parties are at great divergence. I shall elaborate on that later on. When I first came to this Parliament the 2 chambers sat together for the opening of the Parliament on 25 November 1969.  Mr Gorton  was then the Prime Minister and both Houses met in the Senate chamber. They started to fire the cannons out by the lake to give a 2 1-gun salute. In the same time that it took the Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, to read the address only 3 shots could be fired, leaving 18 shots yet to be heard. It took about 59 seconds to deliver that address which set out the program for the Parliament which I had joined. That gave an indication of the bankruptcy of ideas of the Gorton LiberalCountry Party Government, which was subsequently proven over the next 3 years. The people of Australia showed loud and long in 1 972 that they realised this. 
Again on 8 March of this year I had to sit in the Parliament and listen to a woman, who I am sure is looked up to by all in this land and in other lands, so embarrassed that she got her words confused and spoke about this being the silver jubilee reign of her year.  Hansard  does not show that but I heard her clearly say that, because she was so embarrassed by the bankrupt document that she had placed before her- a document not prepared by her but prepared by the staff of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  as the manifesto of this Government for its remaining life. So destitute and bankrupt was this document that the gracious lady who sat there reading it to us was so embarrassed that she fluffed her lines. 
If honourable  members  care to read this document through they will find that it speaks only in generalities. It does not touch on the multitude of problems that beset the people of Australia in the last quarter of the twentieth century. It does not give specific solutions of the numerous problems that we know exist in our community. The document states: 
My Government is improving the existing arrangements in education in pursuit of equality of opportunity for all Australian students. 
-Country Party supporters say: 'Hear, hear! ' I would like to know what those words mean. Clearly the people who sit on my geographical left- never shall they sit on my political left- apparently do not have in their electorates children whose parents were born in Australia. They should represent an area such as that which I represent, which is the most populous electorate in Victoria and which shares with other metropolitan areas a very high percentage of children who were not born in Australia and, of course, whose parents were not born in Australia. The situation at the Dallas Primary School is very fresh in my mind. That school has an enrolment of 390 children. Of those 390 children, 1 10 have parents who were born overseas. The parents of one-third of the population of the school were born overseas. Of that one-third of school children the parents of one-half do not speak English in the home. Take it from there and what you have really is 110 children at that school who need special attention. That school used to have a teacher who had an understanding of languages and who was able to communicate with these children and pass on knowledge to them. I thought that was what education was all about. 
-It is a primary school, yes. 
-Run by the Victorian Education Department. It is a government school. That teacher was withdrawn. That school now has no special teacher. Those 1 10 children have to do the best they can to muddle their way through the education system. 
-I am not joking. The honourable member says that I am joking. I am not joking. What I am saying is the absolute, God 's honest truth, and the honourable member can speak with the principal of the school if he so desires. That is the sort of levity with which these people treat this important problem. The special teacher was withdrawn. When I made inquiries as to the reason I was told that it was because the 
Australian Government does not make funds available now for special teachers in primary schools in Victoria. Let one of the Government supporters stand up and prove that to be wrong. That indicates the emphasis that this Government places on education, and particularly in an area where it is badly and sorely needed. The children in that area have a real difficulty in understanding what their teacher is saying to them because the language is strange. Yet we hear in the Speech made by  Her  Majesty this hypocritical expression: 
My Government is improving the existing arrangements in education in pursuit of equality of opportunity for all Australian students. 
No matter where their parents were born those children are Australian students. Country Party supporters should point out to me where the equality exists, because it was a government of their political persuasion which withdrew the equality of opportunity from them. The people of Australia should be told that more often and loudly until they finally understand the way in which the Government is endeavouring to destroy all the things that were created for the betterment of the Australian people during the fortunate 3 years of Labor Government in Australia. 
I turn to another passage in this very brief document. I repeat that I am quite sure that Her Majesty, as a gracious lady, must have shuddered while reading it. The passage reads: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern; commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people; and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
How the Prime Minister's speech writer must have had a field day putting together that paragraph. But if one cares to strip it of its pretty phraseology one might understand what it is really saying. This is where the Liberal Party philosophy, such as it is, falls down. What is that passage saying to us and to the people of Australia? It prostitutes and misuses the word freedom'. It should have used the word 'licence' in place of the word 'freedom' and then it would really say what it means. If you are going to give freedom in that sense to the people in an organised society- and the Australian community is an organised society, whether the Liberal Party likes it or not- all you are doing is saying to the people who cannot fight back, such as the people traditionally beaten down by the Liberal and Country parties, those who are incapable of fighting because they are young, because they are old, because they were not born here, because they have a language problem, because they were born poor, because they were born with a disability or because they incurred a disability, that everybody will have the freedom to live his own life in the way that he chooses. 
We were taught 2000 years ago that people should care for others without this being imposed by regulation or by law. People on the other side of the chamber find it jocular. I do not find the words spoken 2000 years ago jocular. I think that they were spot on. It is a pity the people opposite do not read them more often and understand them better. Unless governments intervene in this area the rich will get richer, the strong will get stronger and they will tread over the weak and the disadvantaged. Yet that is what honourable members opposite are saying in that passage. They are saying: 'Bully. That is what should happen in Australia. Everybody should have the freedom to live their own lives in the way they want to live them. ' I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  I know you to be a reasonable man- what rights have people who have no advantage because of disability, station in life or a variety of other reasons, to live their lives in the way they want to live them? They have no rights at all. 
Those sitting opposite know that but they are not game to stand and say that in our organised community in the twentieth century, heading rapidly towards the twenty-first century, there is a need for government intervention to protect those who are not able to protect themselves. Yet we get this balderdash served up to us in a speech by a gracious lady. Those opposite obviously believe it. Of course they believe it. And why do they believe it? Because they are of the strong; they are not of the weak. They are not of the disadvantaged. Therefore they believe it. I am not of the disadvantaged either, but I have a strong compassion for those who are disadvantaged. Those who sit on this side of the chamber with me share that compassion and so the philosophy of the Party to which I am proud to belong, the Australian Labor Party, is geared differently from that of the Liberal Party. Our philosophy says that those who cannot care for themselves will be cared for by those who can. But does the Liberal Party say that? Does its manifesto read to us on 8 March say that? I shall refresh the minds of honourable members and read those words again. After that dissertation- I hope honourable members opposite will learn something from it- they will see the words in a different light. They are - 
I shall come back to pension increases. The words are: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern; 
A commitment and a concern to the mining companies and to the oil producing companies- commitment to increasing the freedom, 
Freedom? What freedom exists now for those who are disadvantaged? opportunity and equality of the Australian people- 
Equality exists only among those who already have privilege- and concern with enhancing people's ability to made their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
Have honourable members opposite not yet realised that people's choices in Australia are limited by the depth of their pocket or their economic capacity to pay? That is where their choice is. But honourable members opposite glibly talk about equal choices. I heard the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  mention pensions. I remind the honourable member that in this chamber I crawled down under the desk in front of which I now sit when the Prime Minister of this country, the Right Honourable William McMahon, came in after he had been elected as Leader of the Liberal Party and magnanimously gave 50c a week increase to the pensioners. So do not talk to me about the Government's history on this matter because it is a very bad one. Even the present position is no better. 
-It was the Labor Party that moved pensions- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Darling Downs will cease interjecting. 
-I should think it would take much more than me to excite the honourable member for Darling Downs,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The whole question of pensions moved out of the political arena in 1973- not in 1977 but in 1973- when pensioners were told of the goal set by the Labor Government. The goal was for pensions to be 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We achieved that in the time that was available to us, despite interruptions mid term with elections which were called for political gain. We maintained that rate of pension. All that the Government has ever done has been to apply a different formula. I have not had time to do the homework necessary, but even if the Government has changed the formula for pensions, we created a formula initially. We moved pensions out of the area of being a political football every time the Liberal Party decided to get itself a new leader. 
-Of course, as the honourable member for Scullin reminds me, the Government wanted to flog off the funeral benefit. How much was it? $40? I do not think anybody could be buried for $40. 
-I am told it costs $600, but we are not running an auction. The funeral benefit was not a very large amount of money but it was of great help and comfort to those who were in penurious circumstances. The present Prime Minister- the meanest, mingiest, most reprehensible Prime Minister this country has ever had- came into this chamber and was prepared to take those few pennies away from the widow's mite. What happened? Five honourable members from Tasmania held their seats by very small margins and one of them told us that he sat up all night worrying about funeral benefits. He cried himself to sleep in the end. These members from Tasmania came into the chamber and found some sympathisers, such as the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  who suddenly remembered he was holding his seat by a terribly slim margin. He counted heads and found he had a lot of pensioners in his electorate after all. This went on with members representing electorates all around the country. Every member who held a seat by a very narrow margin obtained figures from the Department of Social Security. I know this because someone in the Department rang me and told me so. All those honourable members checked how many pensioners they had in their electorates. The funeral benefit worried them so much that they went into their party room and told the Prime Minister that unless the funeral benefit was retained there would be a revolution. 
-They used their colleagues in the Senate and back came the funeral benefit. It was not a display of democracy. I am not one who likes to make small political points at the expense of a person such as the Prime Minister of this country. But honourable members should read the newspapers. I was delighted to read them this morning. I saw in one a cartoon of the Prime Minister. I am angry about the way the cartoonists portray our Prime Minister. I do not think he is a great, close-eyed, pipesmoking log, yet the cartoonists keep portraying him in this way. He was shown in the cartoon with his sleeves rolled up and poor old pensioners were shown worrying whether they were going to get an increase m their pensions. In the cartoon the Prime Minister is shown to be saying to somebody else: 'Honestly, I was going to mug em-but I found I just couldn't do it! r That is almost what happened. A Party meeting was held yesterday, was it not? 
-Precisely. Again the Liberal caucus has stood over the Prime Minister and put him back on the rails. But I have been distracted,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I rose to make a great contribution to this debate on the future economic condition of this country. But I have been sidetracked by Government supporters. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Burke that he continue to make his speech without any assistance either from his side of the House or from the Government benches. I think the honourable member has been here long enough to be able to make a speech without everybody else helping. I should hate to interrupt the honourable member for Burke by saying that his time has expired. 
-Do not say that yet,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I still have 2 minutes to go. 
-I am pleased you said that,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  When the light comes on and I have not finished I am sure you will allow me an extra 5 minutes to say the things I want to say. Another part of this great speech by  Her  Majesty- I timed it and I believe it took about  Vh  minutes- told the people of Australia what the Government is going to do over the next 18 months. It said: 
Historic reforms are being made to the nation's federal financial relations which will return power and responsibility to the State and local levels of government. 
Government members- Hear, hear! 
-My word! 'Hear, hear', they say. Do they know what the Government is up to? As sure as God made little apples, what it is up to is double taxation. What it is up to is giving back to the States the right to tax people left, right and centre. It is abdicating its responsibilities as a national government It is abdicating its responsibilities as the only government in Australia which can take this Federation and make it into a nation. It is going to turn it over to the 6 States, and possibly the Territories, and turn it back into a continent of 7 separate nations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-One could take issue with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  on a number of matters. Not the least of them is the indication of white arrogance that ran through his address to this House when we have a world which is multi-racial. He said that the granting of land rights for Aborigines in the Northern Territory would make the Northern Territory into a black state. I remind the honourable member that not quite 200 years ago Australia was a black state and it was the white Europeans who came here with weapons and took possession of the land. Now to deny the indigenous people rights is, in my view, far from being honest. Along with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the honorable member seems to have his attitudes in relation to foreign affairs coloured very much by his paranoic hatred of a political philosophy which is different from his. It is known loosely by the term 'communism '. They would implant in the minds of the Australian people the idea that the philosophy of communism held by every country in the world that cares to declare itself a communist country involves the existence of one rigid system. Of course, anybody thinking or reading about the matter will know that this is not necessarily true. One cannot say that democracy is the same in all of those countries which profess to be democratic. We know that democracy varies from country to country and that the people in those countries have their own interpretations of how they want it applied. The same applies to communism. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory seemed to me to be defending the stand of the illegal Smith regime in Rhodesia. He seemed to be lauding that regime for standing up against communist-backed nationalism. I should like to reflect on those words for a moment. The movements in Asia, Africa and indeed most parts of the world- in China it was the Long March- were all part of nationalist movements. The exploiters were not communists. It was the communists who came forward and promised to lead the people away from their exploiters. That is exactly what happened. In Rhodesia a minority of European people went there and took possession of the land, obviously against the wishes of the people who inhabited it first- the black people- and now they are most resentful of the fact that, they having built their wealth and their white empires there, those who traditionally and over many centuries owned the land now demand it back. So, because they take this unusual step they are branded as communists. 
To me, that goes to the very crux of Australia 's foreign policy and why the debate on foreign policy in Australia has never been broad enough to encompass all of the matters that are of concern to us. It has always been narrow and the community has always been peppered with the view that all things that occur around us are communist inspired. The honourable member for the Northern Territory went further. He was told by the captain of an airliner- I guess some 30 000 feet above the Indian Ocean- that the only things below them were the Indian Ocean and the Russian fleet. To use that as a debating point in this House seems to me to have no credence whatsoever. Even the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  gave away using that sort of an argument a long time ago. The so-called build-up of Russian ships in the Indian Ocean is very plausible. It is a claim that cannot be disproved easily by the community; but nobody has ever brought forth a shred of evidence to prove that this is occurring. The honourable member spoke of communist bases on the east coast of Africa. There is no evidence to support that, but there is ample evidence of the presence of American submarines armed with Polaris missiles in the Indian Ocean. 
The statement made by the honourable member for Kooyong, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, did not have much credence. I believe the Minister to be a very good Foreign Minister. Were he to be not under the dominance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  perhaps a foreign policy would emerge. The statement that was made to this House yesterday was not a statement of foreign policy as the people of Australia wanted to hear it; it was not a policy statement as to where we were going to go. On page 7 of the Melbourne  Sun-  that is the prominence that that newspaper gave the statement; it seemed to think that the cricket was more importantjournalist Don Baker commented: 
The speech was a review of the Government's actions rather than an announcement of new initiatives. 
We can have rehashes any time. When our Foreign Minister stands up in this place the people of Australia expect him to give some indication of where Australia is going in this area, not where it has been. The attitude of the Foreign Minister, unless given his head- even given his head- can never equal the attitude towards foreign affairs expressed by the most recent Prime Minister of this country, who is now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and who is destined to hold that position for a long time. 

 Mr KEITH JOHNSON I meant to say that he will be Leader of the Australian Labor Party for a long time. All we seem to hear in these debates is a generalisation on all of these things. The white arrogance in this area shows through again when the Association of South East Asian Nations is mentioned. After a recent visit to the South East Asian countries I came away with a distinct impression that they do not regard Australia as an Asian country anyhow and therefore do not think it would be proper for Australia to be a member of that organisation. They regard Australia as a Pacific country. If one cares to think about it, one realises that they are right. The world being round, of course, there are countries on each side of us and I suppose we can select the group to which we wish to belong. 
The attitude of the conservative governments over the years- in fact down through the centuries has always been that their foreign affairs and defence policies have been inextricably mixed. Their whole attitude towards their neighbours and other countries has always been one of aggression. The governments of the day have made their decisions on foreign policy with a gunboat in mind to enforce them. I suggest that up until the sixth decade of the twentieth century the people generally were quite prepared to accept these myths that were put to them, to the effect that enemies were around them, and they were willing to offer themselves as soldiers to go into other people's countries to fight. If honourable members opposite would have a look at Australia's history in this respect they would find that there is hardly a country on earth to which armed Australian soldiers have not been sent to fight the people in those countries at the behest of another nation- never for our own protection. One would think that the frontier of Australia was the Rhine in Germany. One would laugh loud and long if a Frenchman were to suggest that the frontier of France was the Murray River. 
During the 1960s the people of the world- the people of the greater nations and the lesser nations- whose governments had involved them in a warlike operation in the Indo-China region questioned the wisdom of this. People came out and demonstrated their dislike for their governments' involvement and their own involvement. It was a war fought with conscripts because at that time-and I believe since- the attitude of the people was changing. They believed that there were other ways to solve these problems than to send armed men to do it for them. So the land war in Indo-China came to a close. In 1973 the 
Labor Government took the action of withdrawing all Australian servicemen from Vietnam. We were told then, as we were told about the independence of Papua New Guinea, that with the removal of the Australian and other armed men from the area bloodshed and wholehearted slaughter would take place between the people who lived in those countries. It was for this reason, we were told, that we must leave our soldiers in Vietnam. We were told that we could not take any steps towards giving Papua New Guinea its independence; that we must keep it as one of our colonies. This policy, of course, would take us back 100 years in our attitude towards foreign affairs. 
I am pleased to say that when the Labor Government came to office it had a far more enlightened attitude towards foreign affairs. It told the Papua New Guinean people that a timetable would be set for them to have their independence, and the timetable was adhered to. Where did we see the bloodshed in the streets, the wholesale slaughter, that we were told would happen if the white man left the country? Where did we see the wholesale slaughter in Vietnam? It will probably be said that Vietnam is now a communist country and that we will never know about the slaughter there. I dispute that. I should think that if wholesale slaughter had occurred in Vietnam we would certainly have got evidence of it through the many journalists in this world who would have a nose for such a story. 
-The honourable member for Darling Downs says that the journalists would not be let in. Again that is a generalisation. The honourable member has no evidence to the effect that journalists would not be let in. I think the Government there would raise no objection even to a visit to its country of the honourable member for Darling Downs if he chose to do so. 
This whole attitude of generalisation, this attitude that the conservatives of this country have adopted over the years has always been one of divide and rule. They have done this within our country and they have endeavoured to maintain the same attitude outside it. As a device to divide our people they keep peddling the attitude that unless we, the white Australians, are involved in these areas, those other people whose skin is a different colour will never be able to manage their own affairs. They argue that those people need our presence and that they need us to show them how to do things. History has shown that attitude to be wrong time and time again but honourable members opposite use these arguments to justify their very questionable actions in this whole area of foreign affairs. 
I should like to return to one point and that is, the South East Asian area which, I suppose, is of great interest to Australians. We are that area's nearest neighbour. Indonesia is a very large nation which straddles the Indian Ocean. This afternoon we were told about communist influence in Malaysia. After questioning people very carefully last year, I could not find any substantiated evidence of communist terrorist activity there. I was told that because the border between Thailand and Malaysia is not very carefully defined and not many people know exactly where it is, and because it is not patrolled, it was there that the communist activity took place. I then did some homework and studied up on the matter. I found that in that area which is at the head of the Malacca Straits for centuries the people have lived as bandits and pirates as we now term them. So far as they were concerned, it was an honest trade. They were far more honest than are those who sit on the opposite side of this House. But modern parlance would term them bandits or pirates. Practising banditry and piracy is exactly what they are doing now. But because they are engaged in this sort of activity, it suits the Malaysian Government and this Government to assert that there is communist activity in Malaysia. The whole activity in Vietnam was centred more around nationalism than around the communist monolith, as I have heard it described. In Africa, in Asia and in all like countries, those who have been oppressed for centuries will rise up. Each time they do those who sit opposite will term them communists. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
I was surprised to see the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  nodding their heads in agreement with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  when he spoke about freeways because I understand that the roads which  Mr Wran  has decided not to proceed with are those roads which go through their electorates. The traffic will disturb their electors and therefore I was most surprised to see them nodding in agreement with the honourable member for Mackellar. 
It is of great surprise to me that the honourable member for Mackellar should now become very disturbed about the movement of people around the city of Sydney. It is of surprise to me that the honourable member, whom I understand to be a prominent citizen in the Sydney area with a long ancestry in that area, did not make his views known to the 2 previous Liberal Premiers because these plans were proposed, I understand, as far back as 1954. He made no comment to the previous Premiers. I am sure that he did not give them advice to accept the proposal of the Labor Government to upgrade the public transport system in New South Wales. It is because the public transport system was allowed to run down that the alternative of private freeways for private cars was put rather than apply funds to public transport. If  Mr Wran  sees his priorities as upgrading the public transport system he will have not only my support and the support of this Parliament, but certainly the support of the people who are very poorly served by public transport in the rather sprawling city of Sydney. That is a matter that the Parliament could debate for some time. I repeat that I am surprised at the indignant attitude taken by the honourable member for Mackellar to the policy of the Wran Government in this respect. 
What I really rose to speak about was an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  some 2 weeks ago. It did a lot to denigrate the people who live in the city in which I live- the city of Broadmeadows in Melbourne. It was very poor reporting by that newspaper. It was not up to its usual standard. It seems to me that when the Melbourne  Herald  or any other newspaper in Victoria needs to find some news to fill up a space, it has no alternative but go to Broadmeadows, one of the largest housing commission areas in Victoria and indeed almost one of the largest housing commission areas in the Commonwealth. People in that area have a particular socio-economic problem. I think it does no credit to a newspaper of the standing of the Melbourne Herald for one of its reporters to go there to find some young person on the street, to beguile that person with the fact that he is a newspaper reporter, to extract from that person all sorts of information and to print it in that newspaper. It is believed by those who read the newspaper as being indicative of the people who live in that area generally. I would simply like to place on record and to state publicly that having lived in the area of Broadmeadows for 20 years, the people who live there are no better, no worse, no different from the people who live in any other part of the State; indeed, in any other part of the Commonwealth. The matter was followed up on a television current affairs program where again selected people were chosen to be interviewed. The scenes televised were obviously and clearly staged. If the media of this country are going to make that sort of an attack on people who are unable to defend themselves against media which give that sort of an impression, it does not speak well for the media. On another occasion there was a comment in a newspaper about people planting trees. Broadmeadows is a frontier town. It is a rapidly developing area. 
-Yes, it is well represented. Again the Melbourne  Herald  carried a story one night about the planting of trees. It did not mention the city of Broadmeadows but it carried 2 photographs- one of the city of Canberra which showed the beautiful trees that have been planted in this city and one of the city of Broadmeadows where houses are being built by the Housing Commission and where there are no trees. There never were trees in Broadmeadows until the area was settled. The photograph was used as an example of the city of Broadmeadows. It did not represent the city of Broadmeadows. There are almost as many trees in that city as there are in the city of Canberra. It is a city that almost equals Canberra in its beauty. 
-Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a recent statement by the Australian Industries Development Association in which the Association warned the Government not to introduce its proposed industrial relations bureau on the grounds that it may cause massive confrontation with the trade union movement, that it represents unwarranted interference in industry by government, that it would frustrate conciliation and aggravate industrial disputes, that the application of penalties would serve no practical purpose, and that it would adversely affect economic recovery and wage restraint? In view of such severe criticism of the Government's proposed legislation by a key industry organisation representing major manufacturing corporations, will the Prime Minister now consider not proceeding with it? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House notes with concern the attitude of the Fraser Government towards local government, in that it has- 
Reduced funds to local government to such an extent that increases in municipal rates are inevitable; 
Forced councils to use rate revenue to finance services that are properly a charge against taxation revenue: 
Failed to recognise that the inequitable rating system places a burden on low income families; 
Ignored the effect of rising municipal rates on the cost ofliving; 
Rejected local government as a legitimate tier of government in Australia; 
Created uncertainty about the future of community involvement projects, such as the Area Improvement Program, the Australian Assistance Plan and others introduced by the Labor Government; and 
Refused to allow funds to be directly allocated to regional councils and individual councils after advice from appropriate commissions that have considered submissions by councils. 
-In seconding the amendment, the best that I could say about the contribution of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  to the House is that I had great difficulty in working out whether he is in favour of the Bill or opposed to it. He belaboured the word 'mercenary', a word that does not appear in the legislation. If he equates a mercenary with someone who fights for money, as I think I heard him say in the closing part of his address, I suppose every soldier in the world is a mercenary in that sense. 
My attitude is one of opposition to hostile acts, whether committed by governments, their supporters or those who oppose governments. The amendment amounts to just that. Those who are engaged in hostile actions can earn no respect from me, although I recognise that there are those who will engage in violence to achieve their ends. I trust that I shall never be one of them. If violence is used against me I shall retaliate but trust that I will never initiate violence. Therefore I cannot agree with the philosophy behind the Bill, as it will not correct anything in its present form. 
It is clear from a reading of the Bill that any Australian citizen, any person ordinarily resident in Australia or any person who was resident in Australia for one year prior to the commission of the hostile act is in breach of the legisation and, if found guilty, will suffer a penalty of 14 years imprisonment, provided that the hostile action was against the government of a foreign country. That means that the people of the class that I have mentioned can commit with impunity hostile acts in Uganda against Ugandan people who oppose the madman Amin, but if they were to oppose the maniacal dictator who declares himself the government because he owns the pistol they would risk suffering imprisonment for 14 years on returning to Australia. The same thing of course would apply if people supported the illegal regime of Smith in Rhodesia or supported those who sought freedom. 
The Bill is badly drafted and full of vagueness and ambiguity. It gives dispensation to any person acting in the course of his duty to the Commonwealth in relation to the defence of Australia. It is well worth noting that during the 1960s the Conservative Government led by the most ultraconservative Prime Minister Australia has had until the present one declared that Australian soldiers were engaged in the defence of 
Australia whilst fighting in Vietnam. How history was to reveal the lies and the deceit used to support that specious contention! Even with the passage of this worthless legislation, nothing will change. On the face of it the Bill seeks to prevent a number of undesirable and un-Australian activities such as a willingness by any Australian citizen or resident to engage as a mercenary. If found guilty he would be liable to a penalty of 14 years in gaol. The preparation in Australia or elsewhere for hostile acts against governments of foreign countries by possession or stockpiling of weapons, munitions or poisons, by training, by giving of money or gifts in support, and by knowingly allowing property or buildings to be used, carries a penalty of 10 years imprisonment. Recruiting persons to commit hostile acts carries a penalty of 7 years imprisonment. Recruiting persons to serve in the armed services of a foreign country carries a penalty of $10,000 or 5 years imprisonment. 
The all-embracing nature of the Bill would also make it an offence for Australians to send messages of support to oppressed people who were retaliating against tyrants. Yet all of this becomes some monstrous window display when clause 9(2) is read. This clause allows the Attorney-General to declare any war a respectable war and, by publishing in the  Gazette  his nod of approval, allows the vultures who thrive on conflict to recruit and advertise for recruits in Australia to serve in any capacity with an armed force in a foreign country, whether for or against the government of that country. Surely the people of Australia will not tolerate the Attorney-General deciding whether wars in foreign countries are just or unjust, whether foreign governments should be supported or opposed, whether Australian people can fight for this cause or that cause in a foreign country. Does the Attorney-General really expect us to believe that he has the omniscience to declare these things? Will it come to a flat ' no ' to anybody who wishes to recruit people to serve in' an armed force hostile to the governments of southern Africa, Rhodesia and Uganda and a .'yes' to those who support the governments? Is this the let-out to allow the recruitment of Croatians in Australia to serve with the Ustasha because of its avowed opposition to the communist. Government of Yugoslavia? 
The words used are 'in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia'. On those grounds the Attorney-General may give a dispensation. If the present Government and its supporters were rational people and not gripped by their paranoiac hatred of communism, that clause would seem to be inoffensive, but we have a government untrusted by the people, a government that has diligently earned that distrust over the past 15 months. It has a Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  noted for his broken promises and unwillingness to keep his word. It has a Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  who speaks frequently and at length on the economy but the people believe only 14 per cent of what he is saying. With such a track record how can this House and the people of Australia believe that the spirit of this legislation would be observed? We know it to be window dressing of the most blatant sort, a true velvet glove with a steel insert. It will have as much effect on the activities it seeks to prevent as would a strike by abattoir workers on Sweeney Todd's pie factory. 
Let us turn to clause 10(3). Again the Attorney-General has the final say as to whether proceedings for commitment for trial on indictment for an offence against this Act shall be instituted. The Attorney-General asks this House, this Parliament, the people to give him the right to decide who shall come to trial and who shall not, and simply by procrastination on somebody's part an accused shall be discharged. Clause 10 (5) says: 
Nothing in sub-section (4) prevents the discharge of the accused if proceedings are not continued within a reasonable time. 
The definitions outlined in clause 3 do not tell me what is a reasonable time, so this sub-clause is also at the discretion of the Attorney-General. I trust that the people listening will take note and that the Press will highlight the enormous discretionary powers which this Bill intends to confer on the Attorney-General. The man who is presently the Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  is known to this House and to the people. He is known to be honest and to have integrity. We all remember when he and the present Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Howard,  were examining boxes of documents before 13 December 1975, when the present Prime Minister formed a caretaker Government, seeking to find evidence to incriminate the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and others in relation to overseas borrowings. We know that they could not find any evidence. A Press release by the Attorney-General told us so, very honestly and in a very straightforward manner. We also know that the then caretaker Prime Minister called the caretaker Attorney-General to his office and told him to reissue his Press release but in terms not so honest or straightforward. He is alleged to have told his caretaker AttorneyGeneral to make it appear that all was not quite above board with the documents. We know that the Attorney-General was uncomfortable and embarrassed at practising his first lesson in politics by the master of the double standard and innuendo. 
Knowing all these things, we can trust Attorney-General Ellicott but how are we to know who will follow him? How are we to know to what exalted position he will be elevated by a Prime Minister intent on finding jobs for his boys before the next election or the next coup in the party room of the Liberal Party? It is too great a power to reside in one man, even a man of the integrity of Attorney-General Ellicott. He is not known to be a person to succumb to pressure from the Prime Minister or anybody else but, if he were, would clauses 9 (2), 10 (3) and 10 (5) not leave themselves open to abuse? This can be put down only to poor drafting. The amendment should be carried to allow the Government to rethink the legislation. 
The iniquitous actions of some people in Australia in setting up training camps at Wodonga and at other places in Victoria and Queensland appalled all Australians. It was unbelievable. It was unthinkable that any person other than our armed forces could establish camps to train people for warfare in another country. Yet that is what happened as the Ustasha set about training people to return to Yugoslavia to oppose the Government there. The Bill prevents this action if it is training people to fight against a government. So the Ustasha is prevented from doing so. However, why should we tolerate military training camps at all for whatever purpose? Australians are a blend of many races, cultures and creeds. We have welcomed to our midst people from almost every country on earth. We are a peaceful, friendly people who wish to live in harmony with and free from fear of our neighbours. It is intolerable that those whom we welcome as brothers and sisters should bring their hatreds, prejudices and animosities with them. To achieve this, clause 7 should be re-worded to delete the words 'section 6' wherever they appear. If this were done, all military or paramilitary training camps not established by the Australian Government would be outlawed, and that is as it should be. I shall be supporting the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and opposing the Bill until it better suits the real position in Australia. 
I rise to support the amendments. With due respect to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr 
Kevin Cairns), I rather thought that he put his case back to front. I am not sure that a country would ever get into holts in foreign relations with another country because it stayed out of its internal conflicts. I rather thought that the reverse would be the case, and that that there would bs more international ill-will against Australia if citizens of Australia were permitted to embroil themselves in the internal conflicts of other countries. I reject the honourable member's argument about the international brigades because that related to an event which occurred a long time ago. I am not of the conservative ilk, as he is, and I do not believe in standing still, as he does; rather I believe in moving with the times and considering questions as they arise contemporarily and in the light of modern day thinking. 
Clearly the thinking of most of the larger nations in the world is to move away from armed conflict between men and to resolve their problems in another way. That is not to suggest that armed conflict does not exist, but I do not think that Australian citizens ought to be permitted to be involved in them. If not permitting such activity were an infringement of civil rights and civil liberties of Australians citizens I make no apology for expressing that point of view. I thought that the purpose of the parliamentary process in which we participate was to make laws which in all cases are in the interests of all the people. The laws we make are to protect the people generally and individuals from their own actions in many cases. If it is taken to its ultimate extent, I suppose it applies to every law. The law that tells me to drive my motor car on the left hand side of the road, for example, could be regarded as an infringement of liberty. I reject that argument. I think it is specious and out of character. I support the amendment and I believe that the use of the words 'against the Government of that country ' is too narrow. If the Government is sincere in its endeavours to prevent Australian citizens or residents of Australia or people who have been in Australia for 12 months- the classes mentioned in the Bill- from engaging in hostile activity it should accept the amendment. If the honourable member for Lilley is unsure of the meaning of 'paramilitary nature', then I suppose I am just as unsure about the meaning of 'hostile activity'. We must rely on common usage of those words. I think that paramilitary is not an uncommon word. It is a word that is used quite frequently and its meaning will be known. I repeat, if the Government is sincere in its endeavours to prevent Australian people from becoming embroiled in the internal disputes of other countries, why does it limit the 
Bill by leaving in the words 'against the Government of that country*? Why does it not broaden it by using the words suggested in the amendment, that is, 'of a military or paramilitary nature' wherever that reference appears in a particular clause. That is the principal point that I wanted to make. I do not wish to delay the Committee. Other matters have been adequately covered by other speakers. 
-As I recall, before the suspension of the sitting, we were discussing the amendment to clause 9. Clause 9 is that clause which allows the Attorney-General- the Minister- by instrument signed by him and published in the  Gazette  to permit recruitment in Australia. Sub-clause (2) of clause 9, which the Opposition seeks to delete, reads: 
If the Minister has, by instrument signed by him and published in the  Gazette,  declared that it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia to permit the recruitment in Australia, either generally or in particular circumstances, of persons to serve in or with a specified armed force, or to serve in or with a specified armed force in a particular capacity, sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply, or does not apply in those circumstances, as the case may be, to or in relation to recruitment to serve, or the publication of an advertisement containing information with respect to service, in or with that armed force, or in or with that armed force in that capacity, as the case may be. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  before the suspension of the sitting, as I understood what he said in the short time that he addressed the Committee, spoke in terms of what would happen if some armed force outside Australia, some recognised army of another country, were to seek people to serve that army perhaps in the capacity of programming computers, or something of that nature. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  put forward a very sound proposition, I thought, as to why this clause dealing with an instrument signed by the Attorney-General and published in the  Gazette  should be amended so that it was in the nature of a regulation and would need to lie on the table in this chamber so that the Parliament could be involved. I go along very strongly with that proposition even though I am supporting the amendment which seeks to delete the sub-clause. The amendment seeks to delete this sub-clause. We do not think it is a good one. If the proposition put forward by my colleague from Grayndler were to be acceptable to the Government, I do not think the Government would find the same opposition from me. 
I come back to what the honourable member for Lilley was saying. It seems to me that to cater for that particular situation, to which I suppose one could hardly object, in the manner proposed is a very curious way of doing things. To place this sort of authority in the hands of the 
Attorney-General, even though the AttorneyGeneral has told us that he would be taking action on the advice and with the authority of Cabinet still strikes me as an odd way of doing things. The discretionary power is too great. It could be specified that the Parliament would need to be informed if an interchange occurred between members of armed services. I am sure that such a proposal could readily be accommodated. If those people were to be recruited in our country from among the civilian workforce, I think that that also is something about which the Parliament would need to know. 
In my speech on the second reading of this Bill I used the word 'omniscience' in regard to the Attorney-General. I checked it out in the dictionary before I used it and I found it did mean what I wanted to convey. I do not think that anybody in this country, not even our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  has that sort of wisdom. There would be the opportunity and the possibility for errors to be made in this area. We spoke earlier about laws being made to protect Australians from the results of their own actions. Our Attorney-General is an Australian. Perhaps we need to protect him also on occasions from the consequences of his own actions. For those reasons, I support the amendment. 
Is the Government to persist with the present wording of sub-clause (2) of clause 9? I find that sub-clause unsatisfactory and unacceptable. Therefore, I support the amendment. However, if an amendment were to be moved in the terms expressed by my colleague from Grayndler, I might have second thoughts on the matter. I do not think that the Attorney-General should be placed in the position of just having to sign an instrument and advertise it in the  Gazette  without the careful scrutiny of this Parliament. I take the point that anything published in the  Gazette  is public knowledge. I suppose the tenet of law which says that ignorance of the law is no excuse applies. If I do not read the  Gazette,  that is not the fault of the Attorney-General, of the Government Printer or of the Government; it is my fault. The  Gazette  is there; it is available to be read; I should read it. However with the volume of reading that people have to do today, it probably becomes something of a chore to go to another place to find the  Gazette.  But if a document is laid upon the table of this Chamber, if it is made known to every member specifically and drawn to their attention, the situation is different. Until that occurs, I oppose this sub-clause as it now stands. I support the amendment and I trust that the Committee will also support the amendment. There are some aspects of this rather contentious clause that would bear much deeper investigation than I would be able to carry out. It should be investigated deeply and thought about very carefully. Until those processes occur, I support the amendment. 
-Today I was rather appalled to learn 2 things. The first was that because of the Government's obsession with what it calls dole bludgers it now intends actively to pursue that matter to the point of appointing a person to inquire into and report upon it. That was bad enough. The other thing that appalled me was that the person who was appointed to perform that task was Professor David Myers who, I have been told, is from La Trobe University. I want to make it quite clear now that I make no personal reference to that person but rather do I look at it from another standpoint. 
-My colleague, the honourable member for Scullin, reminds me that the Professor himself is unemployed because he has just retired. I understand he holds membership of the Melbourne Club, is well known to the establishment in Melbourne, and is not unfamiliar with the Liberal Party. It seems to be a very curious choice of person to look into the affairs of the unemployed and to try to understand the tragedy confronting those who through no fault of their own find themselves unemployed. Many of those people have been unemployed for some considerable time and I think they draw very cold comfort from the expression used by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  namely, that life was not meant to be easy. The only problem with that slogan is that the author of it did not learn it from experience. 
The Fraser Government has done nothing to honour the promises given before December 1975 during the election campaign. It said: 'We will ensure that jobs exist for all those who want them '. In the intervening period the unemployment situation has deteriorated, and there are more people unemployed now that there were at that time. There are fewer job vacancies available for those who are unemployed. 
-The cockey from Bendigo is bellowing out something in the background to the effect that the Government inherited it from us. I want to make quite plain the text of the promise given by the present Prime Minister of Australia who is not trusted by more than half of the people in Australia. He made this promise: 'We will ensure that jobs exist for all those who want them'. He was not able to keep that promise. He knew at the time that he could not keep it, and he has done nothing since to remedy the situation. At the present moment we have 346 000-odd people registered as unemployed, of whom only 245 000- I draw attention to this- are receiving the unemployment benefit. This means that 100 000 people in this country who are registered for work are not drawing the unemployment benefit. Are they dole bludgers? For those people there are only 29 000 registered job vacancies. Are the dole bludgers the people who make up the difference between the 29 000 registered job vacancies and the 346 000 people registered as being unemployed? Let us not forget that it is the Government's economic policies which are keeping those people unemployed. 
Having taken the action that it has, having brought those people to the point of suffering the misery and the degradation that go with unemployment, the Government insults them further by calling them dole bludgers. As though that is not enough, it then appoints a person from the establishment to inquire into the matter of unemployment. Why did the Government not appoint somebody who has some understanding of social welfare issues and an understanding of social problems? That would ensure that the inquiry brings down a correct finding. I am appalled that somebody was appointed to conduct such an inquiry, but I am even more appalled at the fact that the person appointed has had no contact for many years with the people involved and that he is a retired professor from a university. He is probably a man of the highest integrity but, like the Prime Minister, perhaps did not learn from experience the meaning of the slogan that life was not meant to be easy. Those are the sorts of things that disturb the community, as the Government will find out when next it faces the people. The wrath of the people against the Government is growing, and the Government will feel it. The whole question of unemployment certainly needs examination but it should not be started from the position of calling people dole cheats or dole bludgers, and sooling somebody on to them. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and it concerns reports that the Government has decided to establish a committee to inquire into trade union training. I ask the Minister: Has such a decision in fact been made? If so, has the committee been appointed and who are its members? Is it a fact that, as reported, the committee's terms of reference require it to consider the budget allocation of the Trade Union Training Authority, the control of curriculums in the trade union training courses and whether trade union training should be integrated with management training? Will the Minister also inform the House whether the Australian Council for Union Training was consulted or notified about the inquiry? 
I learnt something from listening to the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  for the last 7 or 8 minutes. The thing that I learnt was that after the next general election, whenever it may be, there will be another doctor in the 
House. I think that  Dr Gun,  who ably represented that area from 1969 to 1975, will once again be ensconced in this chamber, sitting on the same side of the House as the present honourable member for Kingston. The honourable member could have used his time better by being critical of the Government that he supports rather than by trying to denigrate the finest Labor Government in Australia at the moment and certainly the most progressive government that his home State, South Australia, has ever had. The honourable member does not read newspapers or study public opinion polls. If he did, he would know that the majority of people in Australia do not share his views. He made a comment in the closing part of his address that the South Australian Government - 
-The honourable member for Barker, as usual, is out of his place and is opening his mouth, with little sense coming out of it. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I know I have little time available to me. In the closing part of the address of the honourable member for Kingston he said that if the South Australian Government were to support the policies of the Australian Government it would be better off. I am quite sure that both  Mr Virgo  and  Mr Dunstan  would be pleased to follow and support the policies of the Australian Government if they could only find out what those policies are. They do not know, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  does not know, and those who sit on the back bench on that side do not know. Away with the rhetoric. 
I think one of the greatest tragedies of the twentieth century is that this incompetent Government is seeking excuses for its unwillingness or inability to carry out the pre-election promises it made in 1975. It has a clear strategy to divide the country and to rule it. This is obviously the creed of the Prime Minister. To this end the Government has now started its attack. It has started its diversionary tactics to take the minds of the people away from th? depressing economic situation in Australia, caused not by 3 years of Labor Government but 1 5 months of Liberal Government. That has exacerbated the position and has done more harm to this economy than anybody else could have done. The Government's diversionary tactics are, in the first instance, to attack those who cannot defend themselves- unemployed people, old people, ill people and ex-servicemen. These are the people who are not in a position to defend themselves. The Government's prime tactic is to launch an attack on the trade union movement as if it were the cause of all the faults and ills in this country. The people of Australia are not as stupid as the Liberal Party would have us believe they are. They are very conscious of the fact that the deteriorating situation in this country must be sheeted home to - 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like to inform the House that today, at 12.43 p.m., at Frances Perry House in the Royal Women's Hospital, Melbourne, a boy was born to Kay, the wife of Gary Johnson. The boy is named Travis Keith. That boy will grow up in an increasingly uncertain world. Unless there is a change of political direction over the next 2 decades, this young man, although a baby at the moment, will grow up in a world in which he may not have the opportunity to have the full benefit of the education system which should be available to all people in Australia.  His  opportunity for an education may be limited to the depth of his parents' pockets.  His  opportunity to enjoy all the benefits of a civilised society such as an Australian should expect may be limited to what his parents can afford to pay. 
-That interjection from a member of the National Country Party illustrates exactly what I am trying to put to the House. The grandfather of this child probably will be able to meet the costs of all these things, but this child is only the epitome of all children born in Australia. This child may be more fortunate than most. I put to the House tonight that it should not adjourn but should stay in session until it resolves how children such as Travis Keith Johnson shall progress in this world. I refer to those children who do not have the advantages that this child may have. Children should have equal opportunities to obtain an education. This advantage should not be limited to those whose grandfathers can afford to pay for them. They should be able to enjoy equal opportunity to avail themselves of a community health system, not one that is restricted to children whose grandfathers can afford to pay for them. Areas such as education and health are the social responsibility of all Australians. The benefits of all these things should be equally available to all people. 
The snide remarks that come from the snide members of the National Country Party are not very helpful. Those of us who are aware of this situation realise that there are conservative people in our community who still rely upon the depth of people's pockets to determine the benefits that shall accrue to them. I dissociate myself from that idea, as do the members of the Party I support. It is clear from the comments made by people on my geographic left that there are people in this community who do not agree with the concept I mentioned but who agree with the concept that people should be educated only according to the wealth of their parents or their grandparents and who agree that people should enjoy good health only according to the cost that their parents and grandparents can afford. They ignore the fact that there are people in our community who have disabilities. These people on my geographic left pay no heed to disadvantaged people. It is important for children of the age of my grandchild - 
-He weighs 7 lb 1 oz. He will grow up without an ounce of fat on him and will be a heavyweight champion of Australia. There is nothing surer. It is important that the people of the age group of my grandson and others ought to come forward in the world and be accorded equal opportunity irrespective of the advantages of having as a grandfather a member of the House of Representatives for years to come. I make this point to the House. I think that the House should not adjourn tonight until it decides that benefits ought to be equal for all Australian people, irrespective of their station of birth. 
-To some extent I am rather flattered that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has seen fit to come into the House to hear what I have to say on this subject. I can assure him that he did not miss very much by not hearing the first 15 minutes of the speech made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  because there was nothing in what he said that would have given the Minister any hope. To me, anyhow, the honourable member for Kennedy seemed to spend most of his time telling us what bad roads there were in Queensland. This is the State of which he professes to be very proud. He also professes to be very proud of the Government of that State. It would seem to me that the honourable member gave an excellent argument not as to why the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads should be abolished.  His  argument seemed to convince me that I am correct in my view that the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads should be retained and that that body should look further and deeper at the roads in Queensland to make sure that this Government, which is one of the mingiest governments we have ever had, made funds available to ensure that the honourable member's home State had roads of a standard that he would like to see. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Kennedy say that roads were very important in the Northern Territory. I know that this is the case, having chaired an inquiry in respect of the Stuart and Barkly highways in the Northern Territory. The honourable member told the House that goods and supplies in the Northern Territory are predominantly carried by road. Of course, that is not surprising because there is no rail link between Alice Springs and Darwin. As goods cannot be shipped by boat up the Todd River they have to go by camel or by road. It is logical that people choose to send their goods by road. The roads in the Northern Territory are being progressively upgraded. I think that there is little to be gained by trying to make political points out of this matter. 
The roads are being upgraded under a 3-year program. Culverts are being built as part of a steady on-going task. I compliment the Department of Transport, if not the Minister, for this program. However, I am a bit unsure as to how that Department will go for funds in the future. It seems that the biggest problem that is facing this whole matter is suspicion. It is only natural that people would view this Government with suspicion. Any Minister of this Government would be viewed with suspicion by the community, and we on this side of the House have the opportunity to watch daily the political gymnastics of Government supporters in this House. We view them very much with suspicion from our close vantage point. But it is not only we, the close observers, who view the Government with suspicion. I have been inundated by mail from organisations that I would usually regard as being sympathetic to the government of the day. I am not saying that these organisations are necessarily Liberal Party or Country Party oriented. That would be quite false. I know that they are not Labor oriented but they seldom kick up their heels against the government of the day unless that government really does something to hurt them. These are local government bodies in my electorate and an organisation of local government bodies in Victoria, the Municipal Association of Victoria. These organisations which, as I have said, normally support the government of the day, are very suspicious about this action. 
They, like the general public, are no longer amused by the theatricals that go on in this place. All that we see each day is a charade of sloganeering and someone trying to find actions that fit the slogans that they think are popular. I am not surprised that people suspect the Government of having some hidden motive and that there will be some severe unannounced consequences to the community from a seemingly innocent Bill. I wish, first of all, to read the names of the local government bodies in my electorate that have written to me on this matter and have expressed concern about it. They are the cities of Broadmeadows and Keilor, and the shires of Melton, Whittlesea and Bulla. Therefore, every municipality within my electorate has written to me expressing concern at the abolition of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and its alleged amalgamation with the Bureau of Transport Economics. After hearing the speech of the honourable member for Kennedy I have some doubts about this now because he seemed to be putting to the House a proposition that everybody employed by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads would be offered alternative employment in the Public Service. If that is the case, I suppose one of two things must be true- either the people who are now employed in the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads have nothing to do, because they will not be missed if they go or, alternatively, the people in the Bureau of Transport Economics do not have anything to do because they can cope adequately with the work that is being done by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. 
I refuse to accept either of those propositions. I think that the people in both Bureaus are doing their jobs well and working hard. Probably, like every other Commonwealth department at the moment, they are considerably understaffed and, as a consequence, probably highly disorganised. This is not the fault of the people working in them but because of the parsimonious attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in not allowing people to be employed. However, if we pursue that line put by the honourable member for Kennedy- the Minister for Transport may care to respond at some time at the conclusion of this debate- it leaves me with the thought that the work that is being done by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads will not be done because this will be a marriage in name only, a marriage of convenience. The current position is that the Bureau of Roads, which is under the control of the Minister, can now be examined. It is a statutory body set up by an Act of Parliament. With its disappearance, what guarantee do we have from the Government? I would rather suspect any guarantee that was given, but we do not even have the opportunity of a guarantee that the work that is being done will be continued and that the Minister will continue to act through the House in order to take any action that he wants to take in this area. There is again a very deep suspicion that the Minister may, in fact, begin to do things by regulation. 1 am quite sure that he is responsible. People have told me that he is a responsible person and I believe those people. They are generally honest. All honourable members know that to undertake very serious acts by regulation in a place such as this, which relies on scrutiny of legislation, can be regarded as doing things by stealth. 
I am quite sure that the Minister would never do anything by stealth. He nods his head in assent. If he would not do so, why does he not leave the matter alone and continue to do things by legislation rather than by regulation? The history of the Bureau of Roads is probably well known but I think that the comments made by the former Minister,  Mr Freeth,  bear repeating. On 20 May 1964 the then Minister introduced a Bill into the House. The second reading speech appears at page 2135 of  Hansard  of 20 May 1964. 1 wish to read selected quotations. It is not feasible to read the entire second reading speech. I assure the Minister that they are not selected with any political bias. How could they be? The former Minister was a member of the Liberal Party and I am simply quoting to the present Minister the words used in 1964. The then Minister said, for example:  . . . the Government's intention to establish a Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in order that the Commonwealth might have the benefit of a continuing study of the national roads situation. 
It was wise in 1964 and it is as wise in 1977. The whole line of communication in this country now is road communication. There is no doubt in my mind that had the motor car been more advanced than it was in the middle of the 1 9th century, we would not have the rail systems that now exist in this and other countries. Communication would have been by road transport rather than by a fixed rail system. However, that is a quirk of history. It is becoming more manifest every day that people, for a variety of reasons, choose road transport to convey their goods from one place to another, possibly because of the flexibility of the system. So roads, particularly national roads, are very important. The honourable member for Kennedy made one intelligent remark during the course of his address to the House when he spoke about the defence needs of this country. I will not follow his jingoistic line on defence but one must be realistic enough to realise and to understand that any emergency situation- never mind about people coming to this country with arms- such as the national disaster in Darwin on Christmas Day 1974, is every bit as much a function of the armed Services as when the Japanese threatened to land in this country in 1 94 1 and 1 942. 
It meant the quick mobilisation of people to get them to that disaster point. Obviously the fastest way to reach a point is by air and that was done. However, the roads were impassable because they were flooded. Therefore the heavy vehicles that were required to carry in the large volumes of food to replace the food that had been spoilt in the refrigerators when the power failed, and to  replace  the food that was spoilt when the roofs came off the supermarkets and other places where food is stored, were unable to reach Darwin. Therefore, roads are of national concern in 
Australia whether they be to service the 90 000-odd people who live in the Northern Territory in a large area or the  3Vi  million people who live in Victoria in a relatively small area. In the Government led by Robert Gordon Menzies, the Minister,  Mr Freeth,  said: 
This Commonwealth has great and growing responsibilities for the financing of roads. 
How true that was and how it came to be ever so true as time went on. Reading through a document put out by the Country Roads Board of Victoria called  Financial Facts, February 1977,  one sees that that document includes a chart that gives an indication of the way in which Australian Government contributions have been made toward the Victorian Country Roads Board over the 10 years from 1965-66 to 1975-76. In 1965-66 the contribution from the Australian Government was about $27. lm out of the total amount spent on roads in Victoria. State sources provided $35m. Progressively the expenditure rose until in 1975-76 $90m was provided for road works in Victoria by the Australian Government. In 1965-66 the Commonwealth Government provided $27. lm out of a total of about $67m spent on Victorian roads- about half. In 1 975-76 the amounts had risen dramatically. The Australian Government contributed $87.2m to the construction of roads in Victoria, as against $27. lm ten years earlier. The Victorian Government's contribution had also risen and so had the contribution from the Roads (Special Projects) Fund on behalf of the State Government. So in 1975-76 nearly $200m was spent on roads in Victoria and the Australian Government provided $87m of that amount. So it can be seen from that expenditure growth, leaving aside any increase in inflation or costs, that the amount of money being spent on roads- I believe Victoria to be indicative of the nation as a whole- is rising at a tremendous rate. The Commonwealth has faced up to its responsibilities. But that is not the point; the point is that it must continue to face up to its responsibilities. Roads must be developed further. It cannot be said that Australia has a perfect roads system. 
Another reason given by the then Minister for Shipping and Transport for setting up the Bureau of Roads was that the Commonwealth Government found itself in a position of having to discharge responsibilities without having available to it data fully adequate for its purpose. I would not believe there is much cross-up between the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. There may be some overlap. In fact in 1973 in the so-called Coombs Report this very point was made, that if there were an amalgamation of the two bodies the savings would be very small. The report stated: 
There appears to have been no compelling reason for setting up the Bureau of Transport Economics separately in 1970, rather than enlarging the functions of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to take in all of surface transport. The main reason appears to have been that the Bureau of Roads had gained the confidence of the States and it was feared that, given the inter-modal jealousies existing in the transport field, widening its functions might complicate its role in the roads field, in which extensive liaison with State road authorities occurred. The interdependence which its statutory role gave to the Bureau of Roads appears also to have been unwelcome to the proponents of a wider ranging transport research bureau. 
Three options were given at that time. The first option was to retain the 2 bureaus. The second possibility was to incorporate them into one body, making it a statutory authority; that is to absorb the Bureau of Transport Economics into an enlarged Bureau of Roads with appropriate change in title. That is not even suggested by the Bill the Minister has put before the House. The third option was to incorporate them into one body, abolishing the Bureau of Roads and incorporating it and its functions in the Bureau of Transport Economics. So of the 3 options that were put forward in the Coombs Report this Government has gone, not surprisingly, for the last one. It ignored the first two. It is rather difficult to disagree with the comments that were made by  Mr Freeth  at the time of the introduction of the Bureau of Roads when he said things like: 
It has to try to see the problem as a national whole and not simply as the sum of particular views of it. 
That is why we need this Bureau of Roads. Each State government has its own department which looks after roads in its area and the States simply talking to a separate body will not get down to the nub of the question. Rather do we need a national body such as the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads that can look at roads as a whole, that can look at roads in the north of Queensland or the outback of Queensland, in the Northern Territory, in the far north of Western Australia or indeed in other States and determine the priorities for spending from there.  Mr Freeth  said back in 1964 that the Government has to see the problem as a national whole and not simply as the sum of particular views of it. By continuance of simply listening to the State authorities giving their advise one certainly comes to that result, the sum of particular views of it. If we are to look at roads as part of our national defence system they may be seen differently by - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I second the motion moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and commend it to the House. Members of the Opposition are, of course, committed to the support of the motion moved by my colleague. I am quite sure that the wisdom of it will filter through to the supporters of the Government and that they also will display their concern for this problem by voting for this motion and offering no opposition to it. As the honourable member for Gellibrand has pointed out very well, the whole question of unemployment in Australia is one that deserves serious consideration. What more serious consideration can any issue in this country receive than to have a joint committee of this Parliament specifically charged with the responsibility of inquiring into it in the terms set out by my colleague. 
It is not out of character for the present Government to hold inquiries. Quite recently it announced the setting up of a committee of people- not parliamentarians- to inquire into the Australian Council for Trade Union Training. This action was taken without any consultation with the Council. No consultation was had with either the Australian Council of Trade Unions or any body connected with that organisation. But this Government did not hesitate to set up a 3-person committee to inquire into that organisation. The Government said that the reason for doing so was that there was some concern that public funds were being used to train trade unionists in their trades. The same thing is not said about public funds being used to train doctors or lawyers in their professions. The Government had no hesitation in appointing  Dr David  Meyers to inquire into the payment of unemployment benefit. That is a nice way of saying that the Government is trying to find a way in which to harass and pursue those people who suffer the indignity and unfortunate position at the moment of being unemployed and, even worse, of being unemployed because of the actions of the Government. 
The Government is a government that does not enjoy the trust of the Australian people. It is led by a Prime Minister whose credibility rating is just a little bit higher than that of his Treasurer, whose credibility rating is at 14 per cent. Fourteen per cent of the people of Australia believe the things said to them by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I should think that one or two per cent more than that believe the things that are said to them by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  So, with such a government, there is no doubt that there will be suspicion and that there will be concern about the inquiries that the Government sets up, especially when they are inquiries into situations that the Government itself has caused. I speak again of the people receiving unemployment relief. The Government has perpetuated the unemployment situation in this country and it is now trying to take the heat off itself by having this inquiry. 
To digress, I was reading a very interesting article in a newspaper the other day about a person who lived in about the middle of the 17th century and who is now known as Count Dracula. He solved the poverty problem in his country. He rounded up all the beggars and put them into a barn on the pretence that he was going to give them a feast and he did in fact give them a feast, except that he then locked the doors of the barn and burned it down, burning all the beggars, and then announced that he had no poverty in his country. Is the present Government going to do that? Is that why it is going to pursue those whom it regards as dole cheats or dole bludgers? 
I come now to the proposition put to the House by my colleague and supported by those of us on this side of the House. As I said earlier, I feel quite sure that it will be supported by all reasonable people sitting opposite. My colleague is suggesting and we of the Australian Labor Party are suggesting that, rather than run around with window dressing exhibitions of chasing the so-called dole bludgers and 'sloganeering' and then trying to find actions to fit the slogans, the Government should get down to the very nub of this question. It is all very well for us to hear the rhetoric that goes on in this House when responsible Ministers sidestep questions asked of them and 'sloganeer' from the other side of the chamber rather than answer those questions, which genuinely seek information not only on behalf of we as parliamentarians but also on behalf of the Australian people, but what is the Government in fact doing about getting down to finding out what are the problems that are causing the unemployment situation in this country? 
We have heard all sorts of reasons. We have heard of a lack of consumer spending. We have heard of investment allowances being provided to industry to encourage it to put in new machines. What a delightful thing to do! The Government is providing industry with an allowance to enable industry to put in machines that are less labour intensive than the machines that were there previously. It talks about unemployment in the community. It has contributed to unemployment simply by that means. I am not suggesting for one moment that Australia ought to return to the time when all things were done manually. In fact, my own philosophy leads me to believe that man was not born to work but to have work done. This is why he has intelligence higher than that of other animals on this planet. It gives him the wit to determine a better way of doing the work than a way that causes callouses on his hands and perspiration to run from his brow. Of course all work as far as possible should be done by machines. 
This brings us to the only question that still faces us. How do we then distribute the wealth that is created? As long as we live in a capitalist society of course we never will distribute the wealth. That by its very being will bring us to a socialist state in which there will be equitable distribution of the wealth created without some people in the community- I repeat 'some people'- having to labour. In a nation with 13 million people our work force numbers fewer than 5 million. Fewer than 5 million can provide the other 8 million with the goods and services that they need. So it must become obvious that unemployment is not a phenomenon just now. It is something that will be with us for a long time. 
The rhetoric and sloganeering of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who actually demeans the unfortunates who cannot find employment in the economic conditions that he supports, will not go down any longer with the Australian people. He is a farmer. I am reminded of the farmer who in bad times called together his farm hands and said: 'We are in trouble. Unless we all work a little harder the farm will go back to the bank and none of us will have anywhere to work'. So the farm hands worked very hard, the crop came in and the money was sent to the bank. The farmer then called his hands together and said: 'You did a damn fine job, lads. I still own the farm'. That is the attitude of the whole squatocracy that is endeavouring at the moment to mismanage the affairs of this country. 
They are doing an excellent job. The terms of reference with which my colleague would like to see a joint committee charged bear repeating because they are intelligent. They must be intelligent; the honourable member for Gellibrand drew them up. They have depth to them. The honourable member has great compassion for the people. He wants to ensure that those who want employment find work. He wants to know the extent of unemployment and the degree to which it has become a long term problem. He indicated that no satisfactory information is available to the Parliament or the people on how many people are actually unemployed. Nobody knows this. For example, a lot of families rely on the wife working. If she loses her employment she does not necessarily register as an unemployed person, but the family surfers hardship because of her lack of employment. Many unemployed are just not counted. On the other hand, people who have found employment may be counted because they have not yet been struck off the roll. 
The Parliament and the people ought to know the true position. If we are to be charged with the responsibility of making decisions in this place, we are entitled to the best information that we can get. The information that we get at the moment is self-contradictory. Information from one source contradicts information from another source. We want information on the length of time involved and whether the problem has become a long term problem. The honourable member for Gellibrand spelt out loud and clear that many young people in particular have been unemployed for more than 6 months. Surely that disturbs Government members. Surely they would like to have the true information about that. Surely they would like to receive that from a committee comprising members from this House and the other House inquiring into the matter. 
If it comes down in the long term to people working less than 40 hours a week so that those who want to work can share the work that is available, I would not expect to hear screams coming from the other side as I did when the working week- I was much younger then- was reduced from 48 hours to 44 hours and eventually to 40 hours. We were told that the country could not stand it. In fact the country has never been so prosperous as it has been since working hours were reduced. That is just fact; there is no economic theory about it. Nobody could explain how the country would be better off if everybody worked longer hours. It would only compound the unemployment problem. 
In my view, for what it is worth, we are not looking at buyer resistance but at a community that is saturated with goods. It just does not want to buy any more. It does not need any more. Yet we are trying to base the solution of our whole unemployment problem on manufacturing industry manufacturing goods for a local market that is already saturated and a nearby market of people who cannot afford to buy the goods. It is about time these questions were investigated. Such a committee could inquire into them. We might be advised to reduce the regular working hours from 40 hours a week so that the available work can be shared among those who wish it. We may have to move away from thinking about manufacturing industry as the only source of employment. 
In a nation of 3 million square miles we need to develop the infrastructure. Yesterday in this House we debated roads and the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. Honourable members spoke loud and clear about the lack of roads and the poor state of roads. This situation will continue unless this mingy, mean Government- the mingiest and meanest government this country has ever had- makes more funds available. Let me remind the House that the Australian Government does not construct many things. It employs private enterprise constructors to construct. Were it to release its purse strings a little 3 things would happen. The lack of infrastructure would be corrected. There would be better roads, ports facilities, airports and all the other things required. They would be owned jointly by all the people, unlike the private railways put in by the mining companies, which belong only to those mining companies. There would be a reduction in unemployment. Clearly if there is work to be done, albeit this work will be principally capital intensive and mechanical rather than labouring work, it will flow through the community and people will be absorbed into it. Not all the work will be entirely mechanical; neither will it be all labouring work. Road builders need surveyors, chain men and plenty of skilled people. We are not talking of only unskilled people. We are not necessarily talking of people in a particular age group. 
These sorts of things are suggested solutions that could be presented to this Parliament by the proposed committee if it were set up. I feel quite sure it will be. The Government and its supporters have expressed in this House for a long time- certainly before December 1975 and since- their great concern about the unemployment problem. Today they have an excellent opportunity to declare their sincerity and to show the people that they have concern for the unemployed, that they care, that they understand that there is an unemployment problem, that it will be a long term problem and that it needs solution. Let honourable members opposite stand up and tell the people loudly and honestly that they understand that their Cabinet room is not the repository of all wisdom. Let private members on the Government side express their personal view on our proposal and not just be rubber stamps of their Cabinet. Let them not listen to the plaudits and blindly say. 'I am a member of the Liberal Party. I cannot cross the floor and vote against my Government'. If they sincerely believe that the unemployment problem is as serious as we on the Australian Labor Party side of the House know it to be, let them agree with the motion that the Parliament set up a committee to inquire into this very problem and report back to the Parliament so that a debate can ensue in the community. 
Today, being grievance day, is one of the few opportunities that private members have to air their grievances before the Parliament. The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  who spoke before me availed himself of that opportunity and showed the House what an inept Government we really have in Australia. As he is a supporter of the Government, I place great stock on what he says when he criticises the Government. I remind him, when he expresses concern about an outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Australian livestock, that it was the previous Administration, the Labor Government, which agreed that an offshore animal quarantine station ought to be built. It was the previous Government, the Labor Government, which agreed that national animal health laboratories should be built, one on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and the other at Geelong. 
-The honourable member for Maranoa, who was a member of the committee that inquired into the Animal Quarantine Station, interjects that the Labor Government did not build it. It also did not defer the work, as did the present Government. It appropriated the funds. If the  coup de grace  had not taken place on 1 1 November the Animal Health Laboratories at Geelong would now be built and operating for the benefit, I might add, of the rural interests in this country whom the honourable member professes to represent. I should have thought that the influence and the clout that the National Country Party usually brings to bear on the government of the day would have been exercised much more if members of the National Country Party were completely honest in their endeavours and desires to assist those who vote for them. However, that is not the case. 
I had the pleasure of chairing a very interesting hearing on the National Animal Health Laboratories at Geelong at which were pointed out quite clearly the dangers that will exist to the livestock of Australia unless a laboratory is established to investigate diseases and prepare vaccines for them. That is what would have been done at the health laboratories. But members of the National Country Party, who do not represent the rural interests- they are supported by the rural interests but they represent only them- selves- have never yet brought pressure to bear on the government of the day to lift that deferment to allow the work to proceed and to allow this very important service for their constituants. 
-I am reminded by the honourable member for Grayndler that the Minister for Health in this Parliament is, in fact, also a member of the National Country Party. Yet we get complete silence. 
-He is an excellent Minister. I agree with the honourable member for Mallee. He must be an excellent Minister if he represents the National Country Party, believes himself to be putting the view of rural interests communities in this House and then allows another farmer- the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  to defer work on the National Animal Health Laboratories. That, to me, does not add up. I find it very strange indeed and I am sure that the people of Australia also find it very strange that those people- I do not refer only to the National Country Party now; I include all honourable members who sit on the other side of the House- continuously misrepresent their position to this Parliament and, through it, to the people of Australia. 
However, I did not want to spend 10 minutes talking about the National Country Party. Frankly, I believe it is worth about 1 1/2 minutes, and no more, of any intelligent debator's time. The matter that I wish to raise today is a scheme that was instituted by the previous Labor Government, a scheme which involved people in the community in decision making in a way that they had never been involved in before in Australia. It involved them in a decision-making process that brought about tangible and visible benefits in the communities in which they live. These schemes, under the Australian Assistance Plan, are known in the State of Victoria as Regional Councils for Social Development. There are two such Councils in my electorate. One of them, the North West Regional Council for Social Development, over the years has spent a great deal of time and involved the community, as I said, to an extent that it has never been involved before in the making of decisions, recommendations and submissions to governments for funds for projects in its area. The community involvement in the north west of Melbourne has been through the North West Regional Council for Social Development. It is a body which planned and improved existing services and created additional services. The Council is continuously disseminating information and provides a mechanism for co-ordinating and seeking funds for appropriate projects. This service was not available before the introduction of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
The North West Council for Social Development was established in November 1973 and received administrative funds to employ staff in mid- 1974. It was incorporated as a public company in August 1975 after a public meeting in the area held in October 1974. The area covered by the north west region of Melbourne ranges from the inner urban municipalities of Brunswick and Coburg, which have a high migrant population, through to the rolling plains of Broadmeadows, which has the second largest population of all the municipalities in Victoria and contains the largest housing commission development, if not in Australia certainly in Victoria. The north west takes in the rural shires of Bulla and Gisborne. The region had a total population at the 1976 census of almost a quarter of a million people. There were 241 5 15 people residing in that part of the metropolitan area of Melbourne and the outer rural area. 
The north west region of Melbourne has long been a deprived area. Since the inception of the North West Regional Council for Social Development over the last 3 years or so activity in the welfare field has increased dramatically to the benefit of the people in such areas as the development of the central services and the raising of the quality of life in the area. In the period since the establishment of the Council its staff has acquired expertise and understanding and knows the needs of the community. It has successfully initiated many programs in the fields of health, welfare, child care, education, ethnic affairs, recreation, youth, environment and community information and media access. The North West Council has also successfully established a number of projects and attracted funds for resources and facilties such as the employment of a regional health adviser, where there was none before the scheme. There are childhood service officers where there were none before the scheme. There is now a community development officer. There are neighbourhood centres, community health centres, municipal welfare committees, a legal service and ethnic culture activity officers have been appointed. A regional dental health program has been established and a regional family services adviser has been employed. These are only a few of the examples of what the North West Regional Council for Social Development has been able to achieve in the period since its inception. 
Some State and Federal government departments have tried to regionalise their services in an attempt to decentralise and to provide the community with a more meaningful and accessible service. The North West Regional Council for Social Development has become a vehicle in the north west to take a broader perspective of issues across the region and to take action where it is appropriate in an impartial and nonparochial manner, thus preventing duplication of services, overlapping and waste of resources. The Council has also taken up issues where they arose and has worked in areas that have not been covered by other organisations in the welfare field. The North West Regional Council for Social Development has informed the community of the activities of the various committees, both standing and  ad hoc,  as well as the activities of the staff and the Council's general executive. 
I am concerned, and so are the people in my electorate, that should funds not be available at the end of June, as stated by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  that a valuable asset in the north west will be lost to the community. There are no appropriate bodies to carry through many of the projects initiated and to take up new issues as they arise. The complaint- and the fear- is that under the socalled new federalism of the present Government it will obviously bow out of meeting its financial responsibility to the community of Australia by not making funds available after 30 June. The Government will do a Pontius Pilate on this question- wash its hands of it and say it is now returning the Australian Assistance Plan to the States. Everybody knows that there is not one State government in Australia which will be able to find the funds to enable these schemes to continue. That is the concern of the people in the north west region of Melbourne. It is a genuine concern. I raise it in this House today in the hope that the Prime Minister may even yet have a twinge of conscience and not stop funds to these worthwhile organisations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It was my privilege to second the amendment that was moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I now have the honour to speak to that amendment which proposes to omit from the original motion before the House all words after 'that' and in their place substitute a recipe for a solution to the economic ills of Australia- if not a recipe in full, certainly something more substantial than the Government has been able to provide for this House since it came to office in 1975. 
The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  identified 2 problems early in his speech- inflation and unemployment. In the whole 20 minutes during which he addressed the House regrettably he gave no hope of there being any solution to either of these problems coming from the Government benches. He plagiarised a phrase. He mentioned the 'light on the hill '. I remember that a person who had great skills indeed in the management of the economy of Australia used exactly the same phrase except that he meant it and he worked toward it and he achieved his objective. In talking of light, whether it be on the hill or anywhere else, I remind the House that in the glare of the spotlight in December 1975 the Australian people were asked to turn on the lights. That meant they should elect the Liberal Party, the conservatives, to government in this House. The people did. But from that time on it seems that the conservative Government of Australia has blown a fuse and Australia has been plunged into darkness. In fact all that was ever offered to the people was a lighted candle. 
The honourable member for Moore spoke about this Government's generosity in terms of the $2,000m that the Government forgoes or ploughs back into the community. He broke that up into 3 areas: Tax indexation, the investment allowance and stock adjustment. He made a veiled reference to wages which rather alluded me. Two of the areas he mentioned, and one to some extent, give benefit exclusively to industry, not to people who earn salaries and wages at all. People who earn salaries and wages do not get an investment allowance; nor do they get a stock adjustment. They may get some benefit from tax indexation, but that is rather doubtful. So this $2,000m that is ploughed back into the community cannot have an effect on wages; what it could have an effect on is prices. If so, how does the honourable member explain that the consumer price index is continuing to rise degrees quarter by quarter? As I said, there is some doubt as to whether tax indexation would affect the average person in the community. I found that there is another member of this House who agrees with that view, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  who, writing in the April issue of  Quadrant,  the latest issue, stated: 
The average middle-income earner is probably taking home a slightly smaller proportion of his pay than under Whitlam. 
Later in the article he wrote: 
And on top of it all, when tax has never been higher, Canberra keeps insisting that it has handed out a $ 1 ,000m tax cut through tax indexation to the inflation-hit taxpayer. It is hard to convince anyone that they have had a tax cut when their pay packets tell them clearly that income taxes and levies collected this year are rising at a faster rate than wages. 
That was written by a Government supporter, the honourable member for Macarthur. These are his words. He went on in his article to state: 
But notwithstanding its unswerving adherence to textbook orthodoxy, the harsh fact remains that it has not put the runs on the board. In 1976 the actual rate of inflation at 14.5 per cent has turned out to be marginally greater than in 1975. 
I remind the nation that Labor was in government in 1975. The article continues: 
The Government is reluctant to face up to this unpleasant reality; it keeps harping on the underlying rate of inflation, comparing it favourably with the rate under the Labor Government. Even from the standpoint of political pointscoring, this is to make a foolish mistake. The Australian people are not concerned with fine statistical technicalities; they are interested only in results. All they are worrying about is the horrifying figure of 6 per cent for the last quartera higher figure than in any quarter since the Korean inflation of the early 1950s. The Government should forget about politics. It should be concentrating its entire energies on the future, instead of harking back to the past. 
The honourable gentleman also has other wise words to say on the subject. In the same article he stated: 
The 6 per cent is frightening not only in itself but for what it ponends. Some estimates suggest that for the three quarters to June this year prices could rise by some 14 per cent in the absence of any wage increases at all. 
This could spell desperate trouble for the Government during the end of 1977. It would certainly spell desperate trouble for the economy: among other things, the near certainty of another devaluation, and thus a further push to inflation. . . . 
If the Government has, on the whole, acted wisely and courageously, why has it failed to achieve results in its major policy objective, a slowing down of inflation? 
Its plans have clearly been upset by the reconstruction of Medibank and will soon be further frustrated by the November devaluation. 
The honourable member goes on: ... in retrospect the changes to Medibank must be adjudged a serious blunder. The restructuring of Health Insurance should clearly have waited until inflation was on the way to being defeated and until the economy was back on the highway of growth. The Government was overambitious; it should have devoted all of its energies to the immediate and vital tasks. Medibank could have waited; it was not an urgent priority. 
It seems to me that, in that article, the honourable member for Macarthur put very succinctly the philosophy of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of this country. The Prime Minister has led along those who support him in this place because of the overwhelming majority that he received in this place, not on votes, in the last general election. A number of his supporters are now in such a delicate position that one of these days they will have to make a decision as to whether they can win an election with him or without him. The Prime Minister will have to face up to that problem. 
The Prime Minister's whole philosophy towards these matters is reflected in the Treasurer's legislation which we are debating this afternoon. The Government generally adopts a confrontation approach towards problems. Those people who sit opposite never wish to conciliate. Since taking office, the Prime Minister has pursued the trade unions of this country and blamed them for the country's ills. For the first 12 months he blamed the 3 years of Labor Government. When that argument started to wear thin with the electors he thought he would pick on the trade union movement. In his endeavours in this field, he did what he has done in so many other fields; he does not remember those undertakings that he made to the people of Australia prior to December 1975. At that time he quite clearly told the people that there would be no attack on Medibank. Yet one document that accompanies the Estimates we are now considering, Statement of Savings Expected in Appropriation which refers to Appropriation Act (No. 1 ) 1976-77 and Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1976-77 and which I believe to be one of the most scurrilous documents I have ever read states, for example, that the estimated savings in the national health area amount to $232,362,000. The Government is trying to convince this House and the nation that it is saving that money. It is trying to convince us that it is in our best interests that it does so. 
I return briefly to the item I mentioned before -tax. I pointed out that the honourable member for Ryan showed us quite clearly that all of the $2,000m that he claimed the Government was ploughing back into the community was in fact going to one section, namely, business and industry. It did not go into the pockets of the Australian people. I have just read to the House extracts from an article by the honourable member for Macarthur which points out quite clearly that the average taxpayer in Australia is now paying more tax, despite tax indexation and other proposals, than he was paying 2 years ago when there was a Labor Government. Surely it has now been established in the minds of all Australian people that there has been no tax relief to the average Australian taxpayer. 
We find that, with no tax relief, there is a significant reduction in services. In the case of health, as I have already mentioned, that reduction in services amounts to over $232m. What is really going on? Something that I find great difficulty in understanding is how the average person is still paying as much tax now as he ever paid but is receiving less service for it from the Government. What is happening to the difference? I have a rough idea: It is going into the pockets of the friends of the Governmentthat is, the wealthy friends of the Government, who financed this Government's return to office. They are now looking for their  quid pro quo.  That is where the difference is going. Every department has suffered a reduction in the amount allowed for salaries and wages. There has been no reduction in the payment of salaries to officers; people are just being pushed out of the Public Service by the man leading this Government who suffers from some sort of paranoia in this respect; he thinks he is running his farm instead of the nation. 
The Department of Health is one of those areas for which the Government claims the largest reduction in expenditure. The next largest is the Department of Defence. Almost $68m has been lopped off that Department's appropriation. Apparently we will not be buying a couple of battleships this year. Almost $ 12m- in fact $11,924,000-has been pruned from the allocation for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Amost all of that amount consists of the saving of $10,870,000 out of the $40m appropriated for the National Employment and Training Scheme. In other words, 25 per cent of the appropriation is expected to be saved on the National Employment and Training scheme. This action probably has something to do with the fact that the Labor Government introduced that scheme and therefore it is not now socially acceptable. The purpose of the scheme is: 
For expenditure on allowances and other expenses for the purpose of employment training and re-training (including the training and re-training of widow and repatriation pensioners, migrants, Aborigines, and ex-members of the Defence Force) to meet the needs of the labour market. 
If it is fair enough to say that the labour market has been destroyed and no longer exists, why should we re-train people? If we study a list of those people whom these funds were to assist, we find that the Government is living up to its reputation of bashing those who cannot fight back and who do not have the resources to fight back. I shall enumerate them again: Widows- and the Government is very good at bashing widows and the widows mite; it has a reputation for that not only in Australia but around the world- repatriation pensioners, migrants, Aborigines and exmembers of the Defence force. Nearly $ 1 1 m that was set aside to be spent on re-training these people is now being pruned. This represents a saving of $1 lm worth of service to a section of the Australian community which is not going to be delivered. I cannot see how the Government can have any pride in this document. 
Another area which will be pruned is the Australian Trade Union Training Authority which was set up by the Labor Government under Minister Clyde Cameron when Minister for Labour and Immigration. It was the first such Authority of its kind in Australia. For the first time the Australian Parliament and through it, the Australian community, recognised the need to extend into the trade union area the specialist training that occurs in the community. For the first time trade unionists were to be recognised as a responsible and an integral part of the Australian community and all the things it stands for and the Australian economy. Like doctors, lawyers and architects and any other professional person in Australia, they were to be trained at community expense. The then Opposition, the now Government, offered no opposition to the passage of that legislation. It expressed the wish to have 2 amendments included in the Bill and it was accommodated by the then Labor government. The legislation was lauded at the time. It was held by the then Opposition, the present Government, to be something which would certainly be of value to the community. 
The people involved in trade union training in Australia are among the most respectable and the most responsible people in our whole community. But what happened quite recently? The members of the Australian Council for Trade Union Training received a telex from the responsible Minister telling them that there was to be an inquiry into the activities and affairs of the Trade Union Training Authority. There was no consultation with them. Even the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  was not consulted. He was told that there would be an inquiry. He was then consulted about the terms of reference. Some notice was taken of his comments on the terms of reference. But the Council itself was not consulted at any time. It was told that there would be an inquiry into its activities as if it was a Mafia-like group in the community that had to be inquired into by the police. 
I am not suggesting that it is wrong to hold inquiries into the activities and affairs of statutory bodies. I am suggesting that the Government has again demonstrated its intention, because of the Council's trade union base, to smash it and to do it in such a subtle way. The Government has not seen fit to have such an inquiry into Trans-Australia Airlines or any other statutory authority. It seems to me to be an act of gross discourtesy for the directors of the Council not to be at least consulted on the matter before they received a telex that was issued at the same time as advertisements appeared in the newspapers that there would be an inquiry. 
The whole attitude of this Government is one of seeking confrontation with the trade union movement. Honourable members opposite stand up in this House and speak about the irresponsibility of the people who are elected by the members of their union to manage the affairs of their union and to formulate the policy of their union. It is absolutely downright misleading to regard those people as being irresponsible. It is easy to stand up in this chamber when there is a petrol strike in Victoria and call such unionists mainland gangsters. It is easy when the air traffic controllers are on strike to say that those people are holding the nation to ransom. It is a darned sight harder to convince honourable members opposite that there are 100 reasons a week, 1000 reasons in a short space of time and perhaps one million reasons a year why men should legitimately withdraw their labour but they do not do so. Therefore responsibility does exist in this area and there is not the irresponsibility talked of by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who has a paranoic hatred of unions. And why should he not have a paranoic hatred? He is a farmer, he is an employer, and he has always regarded the people who work for him as being paid much more than they are worth. It is the nature of the person. He is trying to run this country as he runs his farm. Not since Adam Smith has anybody tried to apply that sort of philosophy to any civilised country. 
-I have no reason to read Adam Smith. My time has almost expired. The reason I have no reason for reading Adam Smith is because Adam Smith can give no wisdom to the world today. There are much more enlightened philosophies around. Honourable members opposite are welcome to read Adam 
Smith, but I would invite them to read something more enlightening and something more in tune with contemporary Australia. I commend the amendment to the motion. I trust that the House will see the wisdom of it and agree with it. It seems to me to offer the only practical solution at this time to the 2 problems that confront Australia and that are a serious threat to us. 
I came into the House tonight in a conciliatory spirit, prepared to sit and be advised by the contributions of honourable members in the adjournment debate, and what happened? I had to listen to the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  - 

 Mr KEITH JOHNSON What the honourable member for Chifley says is correct. I had to listen to an address to this House tonight which to any thinking person in Australia would be an absolute and utter disgrace. The honourable member was talking about the attitude of people towards having children. He was decrying those who choose not to have children. As my colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  pointed out to him, there are people in Holy Orders around the world - 
-Very few, was the honourable member's comment. He knows that that is not altogether true. A very large number of people, with the most honourable intentions, enter Holy Orders around the world and choose to practice celibacy. It is their choice. If a man and a woman choose to live together and to experience a normal sexual relationship that does not seem to me, as it seems to the honourable member for Swan, to have the connotation that an endless chain of children should be produced by that relationship. I wish that the honourable member would come into my electorate where I could introduce him, as I know the honourable member for Grayndler could, to families where the wife refuses, because of instruction or for other reasons, to restrict the size of her family and brings into the world children for whom she cannot care. 
-Of course they love them. 
-The honourable member is oversimplifying a very serious problem. If he cannot see the solution, I have no pity for him. It seems to me that every person who has a child loves that child. The honourable member mentioned my grandchild. Of course I love the child. That child will experience all the benefits that I can give to it. The honourable member spoke about abortion as being something abhorrent. I do not think that it is very nice either, but I do not adopt his attitude. He says that a woman finding herself pregnant, perhaps after taking the best precautions in the world, who is not prepared to bear the child, should be forced to go ahead and bear the child. 
-The problem with the honourable member is that he is not a woman. If we are to look at the situation as it exists, not as the honourable member would like to see it - 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer him to the answer he gave to the Leader of the Opposition yesterday to a question on the arrangements made for a meeting between the Foreign Minister and 2 Indonesian officials at Bali in September 1 975. In his answer he said that there had been a conversation between the Australian Ambassador in Jakarta and Australia in recent times. It is relevant that the Foreign Minister also stated in the House yesterday that the Ambassador had misled his departmental head about the arrangements for the Bali meeting. I ask the Prime Minister: When did the conversation between the Ambassador in Jakarta and Australia take place? Who initiated the conversation? With whom was it held? Will the Prime Minister table any note or record of the conversation that was made? 
It is a pity that the valuable time of this Parliament has been taken up with such a trivial matter as that which the honourable member for Isascs  (Mr Hamer)  has brought forward. He knows as well as every other member of this House that the proposal to hold referendums is a dereliction of his duty and the duty of the Government, which was elected to govern. It is not unusual for the inept, incompetent Government that we have to come forward with such a proposition. I concede that it is being put forward not by the Government but by a Government supporter. It follows axiomatically that if people support such an inept, incompetent Government then it must be their attitude towards things generally. 
The honourable member for Isaacs must know, as I and every other member of this House know and as the people of Australia know, that 28 questions have been put to the people of Australia since Federation and that only five of those questions have been carried. In other words, on 23 occasions the people of Australia have said No. So he is standing on very safe ground in putting this matter forward as a referendum proposal because he knows that the answer to it by the people of Australia would be a resounding No. He has invited that answer by the way in which he has phrased his question. If the honourable gentleman is sincere and really wants to test it in this way, I invite him to rephrase his question so that the answer to it would bring a Yes vote from the people of Australia and see how far he then goes. He knows that this proposal is a ploy. He is smiling smugly. He knows very well that it is just a bit of window dressing. It is an opportunity for him and the fellow union bashers who sit with him to stand up and use the old, tired, worn-out phrases about political strikes, militant unions and communist union secretaries and to ignore all the time the fact that union leaders are elected by union members and, I might add, are elected to act in the best interests of those members, and without exception that is the case in Australia. The honourable member likes to use nice, flowery phrases, such as 'political strikes '. 
The honourable member for Isaacs instanced the Medibank strike. I have been a member of a union for some 38 years and I have worked in industry for about that long. In all of that time the wages that I took home at the end of each week to my darling wife, who then had to dole that money out amongst the butcher, the grocer, the rent collector and the rest, were of prime concern to me. As to the Medibank issue, if I were back on the job and my wages were being reduced by $5, $6 or more a week because of the Medibank levy it would surely be a matter of concern to me. The fact that I was taking home less money under a Liberal-National Country Party Government that had promised me more before the elections would be a matter of concern to me. How does the honourable member equate that with a political strike? He listens to the scabs, pimps and free-loaders who refuse to be involved in that sort of situation and comes forward in this House and tries to canonise those people. 
It seems, as I am continually being told by honourable members opposite, that we live in a free enterprise system. However, I find nothing free or enterprising about it. It is neither free nor enterprising; it is not even private. The free enterprise system is motivated by profit. There would not be an honourable member opposite who would not agree with me when I say that the prime motivation behind the free enterprise system is profit. People be damned; but profit must stand inviolate. Under those circumstances we will have people in powerful positions, such as magnates of corporations, taking decisions that may not be in the best interests of the community as a whole. This Government, by its very actions, will support those decisions and anybody who dares to stand up and oppose them will be labelled an extremist, a communist or some other dirty noun that the Government can wrap its tongue around. I am putting to the House that there is no need to defend the integrity of the union movement and the unionists in Australia. Their integrity is beyond reproach. 
That is known quite well by everybody except those who might be just a little mentally defective. 
The honourable member for Isaacs also mentioned the entry of nuclear warships into certain ports. I assume he meant the port of Sydney, which refused entry to a nuclear warship. Why does he not explain to us that the people who wished to bring the American nuclear warship here had not been able to give the Premier of New South Wales or anybody else for that matter any guarantees that the city of Sydney and the port of Sydney would be safe in the case of accidents. I understand that the honourable gentleman spent some considerable time in the Royal Australian Navy. As such he would know that ships and other vehicles are prone to accident on occasions. The Liberal-National Country Party Government of Australia in Canberra was quite prepared to put all of the people of Sydney- some 2 million of them- at risk and allow this ship to enter the port. It was the responsible, intelligent, sensible trade unionists and, I might add, the Labor Government of New South Wales that refused the ship entry to the port of Sydney. Anybody who claims that action is irresponsible must himself be irresponsible. This House and, through it, the people of the nation will judge where the irresponsibility lies. 
The tearing down of homes at a time when there is already a housing shortage in Australia in order to build roads that will soon become congested and clogged and lead to other evil things is opposed by trade unionists and they are taking positive action on this issue. Are they to be condemned for doing that? Some monuments, some relics from our past, which are part of our heritage still stand. They did not go under the wrecker's hammer. They did not finish as a pile of rubble, simply because responsible people, trade unionists, stood in the way of those who for profit would tear down these parts of our heritage. Are these acts by unionists irresponsible? Are they acts which honourable members opposite would condemn? Do honourable members opposite really mean what they say or do they speak with their tongue in their cheek, building up to a bigger campaign? 
There is the whole question of uranium. It has already been dealt with in Queensland by railway workers there and will be dealt with by other workers if those sitting on the other side of this House think that it is simply a matter of mining and selling uranium with profit as the motive and saying: The people be damned'. This is the attitude of those who sit opposite. It is the attitude of those who pay their bills to get them into this place as a government and keep them here. As an aside, it was interesting to read an article in the  Age  today which shows that $lm belonging to the Liberal Party in Victoria is invested in finance companies. The Liberal Government in Victoria manages the State Savings Bank. Who is it that prevents the State Savings Bank from engaging in hire purchase activities in Victoria? It is the Liberal Government. That is the moral attitude of these people. They are no different here from what they are in Victoria or in any other State when we have this combined assault upon people who take action to preserve things that they would destroy. They are the wreckers, not the unions, not the members of the unions. 
They bleat about there being no democracy in trade unions. Has an example of no democracy in unions ever been placed before this House? Honourable members opposite talk about domination of the rank and file members of unions by their leadership. Has there been any evidence of this brought forward? They are phrases that are used to try to discredit something that those opposite fear. The reason that people hate is that they are afraid. Those who sit opposite hate and never miss an opportunity to bash the unions. Why do they fear the unions? They think that by winning a popularity poll at election time it leaves them with the sole responsibility of managing this country. They are not doing that very well if one of their members is talking about governing by referendum. They do not have a sole right. I can point to many governments in Australia, particularly the Government of Queensland. The Queensland Government was elected by a popular vote of 29 per cent of the people. It does not represent the other 71 per cent of the people. Who is to protect the interests of the people under those circumstances? One must look forward to the trade union movement doing a most responsible job in this area. 
-The honourable member for Maranoa, who of course is the member of the same Party as the Premier of that State, tells me that it is a coalition government and the coalition got more than that percentage of the vote. But Queensland still has a Country Party Premier- a peanut grower from Kingaroy. 
-That defies answer. The whole exercise brought forward by the honourable member for Isaacs was a sham. It was thrown out as a smokescreen. It was put up so he could deliver another virulent attack on what he believes to be the enemy of this country, but he cannot get many people to agree with him. He mentioned a gallup poll that does not reflect opinions accurately. Gallup polls, like his referendum question, will get the answer they invite. The honourable member spoke about industrial and political disputes. He should go to the  Year Book  and check the record. He could find that in 1973- the first book I grabbed was the 1973 one, but one year is no different from the next- out of 2300 strikes 145 were about something other than wages, hours of work, leave, pensions and compensation provisions, managerial policy, physical working conditions and trade unionism. Yet the honourable gentleman would have this House believe that all strikes that take place in Australia are irresponsible, have nothing to do with wages and have nothing to do with working conditions. Would he drive men to work when working conditions were unsafe? Would he drive them to work on the Westgate Bridge in Melbourne, which collapsed and killed many workmen? Would he be one of those simply because trade unionists exercised their right to withdraw their labour when they did not feel it was safe to work? It is quite clear from the attitude of those opposite that that is the sort of thing they would do. There is legislation before the House now which will endeavour to do that sort of thing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The time allotted for consideration of General Business notice No. 1 has expired. The honourable member for Burke will have leave to continue his. speech when the debate is resumed. 
The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under General Business for the next sitting. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that he stated during the recent air traffic controllers dispute that the controllers would not get a cent? Does this statement indicate that the Prime Minister was seeking to establish himself as some overriding arbitral authority who could dictate to the established arbitral tribunals the terms of settlement of the industrial dispute? In view of his statement that  the air traffic controllers dispute provided a classic example of the need to introduce the Industrial Relations Bureau and other amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, will he explain to the House how the introduction of the Bureau, as originally proposed, could have assisted in settling that dispute? Does the fact that the Government has since announced the withdrawal of the substance of that legislation indicate that the Prime Minister now disbelieves his own statements? 
I was not surprised to hear the speech delivered by the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter).  He has built up quite a reputation in the short time he has been here as being highly critical of trade unions and their actions. 
-I think he is here only temporarily. I am very disappointed that he should speak in such a disparaging fashion about one of nature's gentlemen, that is,  Mr George  Apap, the Secretary of the Storemen and Packers Union in his own State. I oppose the whole of clause 23 of the Bill, particularly for the reasons mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon).  This clause proposes the inclusion in trade practices legislation of a clause that rightfully should belong in industrial legislation. It would be a different matter if this country had no industrial legislation but it has. It has a substantial Conciliation and Arbitration Act which is designed, as the preamble says, to settle industrial disputes. 
This is clearly an industrial matter. A simple reading of the clause will indicate that it is aimed at trade unions, although it does not use those words, and at members of them. It is now for the first time aimed at persons. It has a wider application than to members of trade unions. This appears in the Trade Practices Amendment Bill. 
It is intended to be included in the Trade Practices Act. I oppose it. I should have opposed it just as vigorously if an attempt had been made to include it in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It seems to me manifestly misleading to drop this provision right in the middle of the Trade Practices Bill when it has nothing to do with trade practices. 
-The honourable gentleman says 'rubbish'. I suppose that almost any action taken in the community can affect trade practices and could therefore be scooped in. That was not the original purpose of the legislation. It was not the intention with which it was originally introduced. It was introduced to prevent malpractices by owners of businesses and distortion of market effects by them and to protect small traders and consumers. Certainly not at any time was it intended that this Bill should be used for the misuse to which it is now being put. For the benefit of the Committee, I quote the proposed section 45D ( 5 ): 
If two or more persons (in this sub-section referred to as the 'participants ') each of whom is a member or officer of the same organization of employees (being an organization that exists or is carried on for the purpose, or for the purposes that include the purpose, of furthering the interests of its members in relation to their employment)- 
In other words, a trade union: . . . conduct in concert with one another, whether or not the conduct is also engaged in in concert with other persons, the organization shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to engage in that conduct in concert with the participants, and so to engage in that conduct for the purpose or purposes for which that conduct is engaged in by the participants, unless the organization establishes that it took all reasonable steps to prevent the participants from engaging in that conduct. 
I put it to the Minister on reading that clause that he has spread a very wide net. The whole of the Government's industrial legislation sets about protecting scabs, pimps and free loaders. He is protecting them again in this provision. He is protecting the  agent provocateur  who can smash a union. The penalty for a union which is found guilty of such an act is $250,000. 1 give the Minister an example. We will suppose that 2 people working in the Ford Motor Company in Geelong, members of the Vehicle Builders Union, have, for reasons good or bad, taken a dislike to the union itself and the officers of the union. If those 2 people- only a minimum of two is needed- decide to engage in activities in that factory that disrupt the Ford company and cause it to be inconvenienced, they are doing what subsection (5) says they must not do. The union has no control over them. I repeat the relevant sentence:  ... the organisation shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to engage in that conduct in concert with the participants . . . 
The organisation does not have to be involvedonly 2 members of it can cause disruption in a plant- and the organisation is then deemed to be guilty in participating in the same way as the people in the plant. If the union is found guilty as it must be under this section of the Act, it is then fined $250,000. 
It does not take a very strong imagination to work out what sort of weapon is being given to some people who would set out to destroy their union. The Government is giving them the ultimate weapon in the penalty it is providing in the way in which that proposed section is written. This legislation must be the worst drafted piece of legislation that has ever come into this chamber. This Bill is about the fourth attempt that the Government has had at drafting it. It has fouled up 3 attempts. No sooner does the fourth one hit the table then we have about 12 pages of amendments to it. What a great piece of legislation! Even if this is the fourth attempt at writing section 45D to try to accommodate people, the Government has mucked up this one as well. It has made this one worse than the ones which preceded it. Certainly, it has taken out the penalties of $50,000 for individuals but it has left in the penalty for the unions of $250,000. It has left it wide open for  agent provocateurs  to bring down a union. The Government does not have to do anything except get a couple of blokes a job in the factory, agitate them and stir them to engage in activities described in the Bill. Who is guilty? It is not the employees, the members or the persons; it is the organisation. 
The Government now has another piece of legislation in this Parliament which purports to look after the interests of individual unionists and protect them from their big strong union bosses. That piece of legislation prevents a union executive or its officers taking punitive or disciplinary action against its own members. Can the Minister not see the contradiction? In this piece of legislation, he joins the organisation with the actions of the employees. That piece of legislation states:  . . . unless the organization establishes that it took all reasonable steps . . . 
What does that mean? Do you write the employees a letter and tell them not to engage in that sort of activity? 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 10 March, I shall report progress. 

 The Deputy Chairman having reported accordingly- 

The last part of that section states:  . . . unless the organization establishes that it took all reasonable steps . . . 
As I said, what are 'reasonable steps'? Does one write a letter to those malcontents in the factory and tell them that they must not engage in that sort of activity? Would that be accepted as 'having taken all reasonable steps '? Is an official sent to the factory to speak to the people there? If the official tries to take any disciplinary action against those people under another piece of legislation before this House the organisation is still at fault and the individual is protected. 
It is for those reasons and a number of others that we oppose this legislation. For example, we oppose the changing in this draft of the legislation of the word 'employees' to 'person' in the first sentence of proposed section 45D. Again we can have all sorts of examples of people who are not necessarily employees. I think this was mentioned earlier in the House today during the second reading stage. For example, take a company sand mining on Fraser Island. Let us suppose that there were conservationists in the area who did not believe that that company should be mining for sand on that Island and who decided to sit in front of the machines that were going to excavate the sand from the Island. Under this legislation, those people would be guilty. They are not employees; they are not engaged in any secondary boycott. But that is how broad the legislation is. As I said, this is the fourth go that the Government has had at trying to get this thing right. If it were to take my advice- and frankly it could not find sounder advice in the whole of Australia- it would not persist with trying to patch up this shoddy looking piece of legislation but would withdraw it and consign it to the waste paper basket, the proper place for it. 
There is great concern not only on my part but on the part of the trade union movement about this legislation because it does infringe upon the rights of working people in this country and other countries- rights that were fought for 100 and more years ago; rights that people believe are entrenched. They do have the right to withdraw their labour. As the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  was trying to put to us, they do have the right to decide whether they shall work with people who are free-loading on them. They do have the right to decide whether they will work with people who are known as scabs. I do not know all of the details of the case which the honourable member for Barker mentioned but it seems pretty clear to me that the people involved were in the wrong union. They had been body snatched by another union. All that George Apap wanted was to bring them into his loving embrace, to bring them back to the fold of the Storemen and Packers Union where they could probably get better protection and better service. It was in the interests of the employees to be members of the Storemen and Packers Union. That must be axiomatic, even to the honourable member for Barker. The legislation is bad. It is so bad that one could not even suggest an amendment to it. The only thing that should happen to it is for it to be given a decent burial. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  has just made another of his incredible speeches. 

 Mr KEITH JOHNSON I said 'incredible', and that word means something. He spent half of the time for which he was on his feet telling us how incompetent and how inept the small businesses in Australia are. He told us that he believes in a free enterprise system and then he asked the Government to step in and help the small businesses. One could not get anything more contradictory than that if one tried. While we have such an inept and incompetent Government in Australia, while the economy is in the mess into which the Government has brought it and while we have a Prime Minister who trips off overseas- not on an Australian airline, but on a foreign airline- when the country seems to me in one heck of a mess, when a national wage case decision has been made only 2 days previously, when the Parliament is still in session and when members of the Australian Labor Party are calling daily for some leadership from the Prime Minister and the Government to solve the economic problems of the country - 
-Yes, it is. Sit down. 
-Come on; I have only 2 minutes left, Tom. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I take a point of order on the honourable member for Darling Downs. I have only 2 minutes left, and he knows it. He should be sat down. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. Is it true that a curfew has been placed on Melbourne Tullamarine airport for aircraft landing at night? Can the Minister indicate which sorts of aircraft will be restricted and the hours during which they will be restricted? If all aircraft are not restricted can he explain why some aircraft will be allowed to land during the curfew hours? 
-I would like to take up the point that has just been so eloquently made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The honourable member explained the legal difficulties that exist in this area. He is very well qualified to do that. I would like to put to the Committee a practical view as compared with the legal view that was put by my colleague. I compliment the Government on its wisdom in deciding to back down on this question and to withdraw these clauses of the legislation. I believe that they would have had the effect of preventing a union from going about its practical day to day business of obtaining members, from having any discipline over its members, and from being able to prevent its members from doing things that were against the will of the majority. 
The Government has said that its intention in introducing the legislation is, as it puts it, to look after the rights of individuals in unions. The fact that unions must register their rules with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is in itself a protection for the members. I think there is no need for the Government to go any further. There is no need for it to endeavour to legislateas the honourable member for KingsfordSmith said, probably to legislate illegally- under the guise of looking after the interests of individual members in fact to make a trade union unworkable. 
It ought to be quite clear to anybody in this chamber or to anybody in the nation for that matter that we are not isolationists in our community, we engage in community activities. If we play sport we play in a team. There is not a person here who would suggest that a full forward in an Australian rules game, who was standing in front of an open goal and who kicked the ball away from the goal, would not suffer any criticism from his team mates or from his team manager. We might say: 'Oh, people join football teams on a voluntary basis'. That is quite right. All that has ever been said by unions when they enrol members- this has been substantiated by decisions of the courts over the years- is: 'Look at the benefits that you enjoy, the wages that you collect, the leave provisions and all the rest of the things that have been won by people acting in concert with one another'. History shows that there have not been many generous employers who have given employees something substantially more than to which they are entitled. Some employers, because their business may be prosperous, may pay something over the award. But very few, if any, give more generous leave provisions than are contained in the awards. 
The Government is intent on ensuring that individuals in this area have the protection of the law which will allow them to stand away from the organisation, not to be a member of it and not to pay dues to it. In fact this changes the situation where a person who obtains a certificate of the court on the grounds of conscientious objection is required to pay to the registrar of the court a sum equal to the union dues. All that the Government is endeavouring to do with the clause is to protect those who are not prepared to pay their way. 
Only recently in Melbourne we had the case of a man working at a tramway depot saying that he had been prevented from working because he would not pay his union dues. Of course, that is a complete and absolute distortion of the truth. The truth is that the man refused to join the union. He may had good reason for doing so. He could have obtained a certificate if he had good reasons for not joining the union. But the important thing is that this man did not want to pay the union dues. No fair minded person would say that someone could just come in off the street and enjoy the benefits achieved by a group of people, benefits which were gained by them or others acting in concert, without making a contribution to the union. 
This is where my objection lies with this part of the legislation. I believe that it encourages free loaders. A person may be the only worker in a plant who declines to join a union. The rest of the workers are all members of the union because they wish to be members of the union. The Government is denying all those other workers their rights if it allows this free loader in the plant. The other workers have rights as well. One of their rights is to decide with whom they will work. By allowing this part of the Bill to become law the Government would have taken that collective right away from those other workers. This would have happened in spite of the fact that the men had held a meeting, discussed the matter and decided that that would be their position. The Government wanted to protect the person who would take away the rights of the other workers. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  mentioned in his speech during the second reading debate- he did so quite erroneously- the position of a union which was to take action against some of its members for not engaging in a strike. Just to set the record straight, I presume that the honourable member was talking about some members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union who worked in Ballarat. 
-I am sorry. I have mentioned the wrong union. I made the same mistake last time. It is the Postal Workers Union in the Ballarat area. The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  raised this matter in the House. The union did not back off in this case. A strike concerning wages was called by the union. 
Therefore by any definition it was a legitimate strike. Because the strike concerned Medibank it was labelled a political strike. That is a blatant misrepresentation of the position. Because these employees declined to take part in the strike and wanted to work naturally the union was bound under its rules which are registered with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to take action against its members. I do not know what the honourable member for Casey wants. I do not know whether he wants us to tear up the rule book. I do not know whether he wants us to cease registering rules of unions or whether he is pleased that we have rules of unions but he does not wish to see members of the unions abide by those rules. This seems to be a crazy mixed up situation. I am glad that the honourable member raised this question because he pointed up something that I said in this chamber earlier this week in respect of the Trade Practices legislation. Proposed new section 45D of the Trade Practices Act makes an organisation liable for the action of its members.  Mr Chairman,  if I am transgressing I am sorry but I want to make this point because it is important. That being the case, the organisation, through the action of two or more of its members, becomes liable to a fine of $250,000 which is a substantial amount. If this provision is left in the legislation it will prevent the union from taking any disciplinary action against the malcontents or the people who wanted to bring about that circumstance. 
The honourable member for Casey cannot have it both ways. He can have it one way or the other. He either wants the organisation to be responsible for the action of its members- that means disciplining them if they step out of line according to the union rules- or he wants the situation which exists under the trade practices legislation whereby members of an organisation can bind the organisation whether or not the organisation is aware of their actions and whether it can control them. I understand that the honourable member is  chairman  of the Government's industrial committee so he must have had a great deal to do with the drafting of this legislation. He must have put to the Government, which accepted the situation- which he wanted- that the union should have no control over its members. For those and a number of other reasons in this area I suggest that the legislation would encourage and support pimping, scabbing or freeloading. As the honourable member for Gellibrand said this morning, the situation would be almost canonised if the provision had been carried. I support the amendment which has been moved by the Minister for 
Employment and Industrial Relations. I congratulate him on having the courage to back down and pull out these iniquitous provisions. His action has certainly saved a tremendous amount of industrial and economic chaos in this country. 

 -Mr Chairman, I abide by your request. I hold the Bill in my hand so that I will not stray from it. I want to answer some of the comments made by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  He made an emotional plea for the rights of individuals. He spoke about the way in which these rights are being negated or neglected by the trade union movement. He is quite wrong, of course. He has told us about rights which he believes are enshrined in these clauses of the Bill which are to be deleted. As we have been reminded, the Government will legislate on this matter again later this year. But he is wrong. 
I am disappointed. I thought the honourable member was a bright young lawyer. He is having some difficulty in understanding the language. The rights about which he spoke are already enshrined in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. As I mentioned earlier, they are entrenched in every union rule book. The rule books are available to the members. The rules are vetted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission through the registrar. In the same way that the majority shareholders he mentioned are protected by rules, so are the rights of individual unionists. But the honourable member carried it a step further and led us to believe that individuals have some sort of inalienable right to do as they please, and that is what I want to put to rest. I would believe the honourable member for Parramatta to be a law-abiding gentleman, a law-abiding honourable gentleman, a lawabiding learned honourable gentleman, and as such he obeys the rules. In this country, if you drive a motor vehicle the rules are that you drive it on the left hand side of the road and you stop when a policeman or a sign or a red light says so. The honourable member is nodding his head, indicating that he does all those things. A friend of mine is an American and he is used to driving his car on the other side of the road. If we were to follow right through the analogy put by the honourable member for Parramatta, why should not my friend be able to exercise his right as an individual to drive his motor car on the right hand side of the road? The honourable member is laughing in glee because he can see the ridiculousness of his argument. 
What we are really saying is that we live in an organised society and we recognise that we live in an organised society. We recognise that unions are organisations because that is how we refer to them in the Bill and in the Act. Having recognised that word, which crops up continuously, how can we have industrial peace unless we have organisation? I put it to the honourable member that he should change his thinking on this and update himself from the 1 7th century into the latter part of the 20th century. He should forget about the time when there were no unions to which he would care to take us back, when the individual was at the mercy of those who had power. He should recognise that people come together only to exercise power, or to accumulate funds or to accumulate members, and for no other reason. If he understands that, he will withdraw his objection, expressed in the words he has just used, and understand that it is impossible to give to or legislate for anybody to exercise an inalienable right. All of us must be subject to the rules of the communities in which we live. 
-I wish to add a similar note of warning to those issued by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  It seems to me that he is acting very much out of character by his insistence that section 125 of the principal Act be repealed. The Minister, by the very nature of the functions he performs, is a politician. There are those in this country who might even be prepared in certain circumstances to say that he is a good politician. That being the case, I should have thought that he would have recognised and understood the penalties that already exist in the Act. He should also know that there are occasions when it would be most unwise in the public interest for prosecutions to be launched as a matter of note by the Bureau or anybody else. Therefore, it is proper that there should be a safety valve in the form of direction by the Minister. Unfortunately, the Minister is misusing the Queen's English when he talks about independence. The Government seems to have a fetish for this sort of thing. He has taken away that safety valve. He has broken the cord. 
With the deletion of ministerial control all that can happen now is that pressure will build up very quickly if the Director of the Bureau no matter who he is-he may be any of the people mentioned by the honourable member for Hindmarsh or somebody else- proceeds with prosecutions under the Act believing that he is doing his duty. He is not a politician. He is under the control or direction of nobody. I assure the Minister that the time is not far distant when the pressure will build up and there will be an explosion. It would seem to me to be in the public interest, much more sensible, much saner and much safer if the Minister were in a position to be able to defuse that situation simply by saying to the Director 'It is ridiculous for us to provoke a dispute. We are here to settle disputes. If you persist with this course you are provoking a dispute '. He should be able to ask him to back off, to use a vernacular. If the Labor Party were in government and it were not frustrated in another place those penalties would have been written out and the objection would have disappeared. The Minister is adamant that he will not take out those penalties. In fact, he tried to add to them. It is the view of my colleagues and the trade union movement that there ought to be ministerial control over the Director of the Bureau. 
I repeat the words used by the honourable member for Gellibrand and the honourable member for Hindmarsh: This provision is a breach of the agreement with the unions. It is not the same process. It is different. The safety valve has gone. If the Minister is prepared to pursue the Bill as it now stands and is not wise enough in this area, as he has been in others, to withdraw the deletion of section 125, the consequences of that action will be on his own head. Agreement has been reached by all parties in this chamber. Honourable members on both sides of the chamber are pleased that agreement was reached. None of us was looking forward to a confrontation, the Government much less than the Opposition and the trade union movement. The Minister now seems to be hell bent on not keeping to the agreement reached with the unions. I think he should do so. An undertaking was given in terms of pains, penalties and processes. It is obvious that that agreement has been breached. The consequences must lie on the Minister's own head. I urge him to re-think his position and give consideration to leaving section 125 of the Act as it now stands. 
-In typical genial fashion,  Mr Speaker,  I ask a question of the Treasurer. Did the total employment of wage and salary earners in Australia in seasonally adjusted terms fall by 5000 between March 1 976 and March 1 977 when the adult population grew by over 1 50 000? Does that show that unemployment and the numbers of people who have withdrawn from or not entered the work force are growing? Did Professor John Neville, who is one of Australia's leading macro-economists, estimate recently that the 1976-77 Budget was likely to have a contractionary impact on the Australian economy of about 9 per cent in comparison with the previous Budget? Does that suggest that the Government's policies are contributing directly to the reduction of employment opportunities? 
This was a very difficult hearing for the Public Works Committee. The hearing was adjourned at Katherine and resumed in Canberra in order that the Department could present more information. Honourable members will see that the cost now is $ 1.82m. When the matter was referred to the Committee the cost was higher than $2m, as is required by the Act. The hearing highlighted the need to monitor movements of people in this area by way of estimates of population from time to time, and the Department after checking all sources available to it came back to the Committee and said that some errors, some over-estimation of future populations had been made. The Committee put to the Department that perhaps it would be desirable to reduce the size of this school. 
The Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  mentioned that this is the first school to be built under a very practical system of almost modular construction. It made the deletion of the not required section of the school rather easy and at the same time it makes the addition of it at a future time, if necessary, just as easy. At the same time, it makes the addition to it at a future time, if required, just as easy. It was a sensible solution to a difficult problem. One paragraph of the report recommends that the shower and change blocks be retained. I shall elaborate on that for the benefit of honourable members. There is a shower and toilet block at this school. It is not the first one in the Northern Territory. After the Committee had asked for and received information from knowledgeable people on the climatic conditions in the Northern Territory, it was felt that, in that area, it is not a luxury to have the facilities for children to be able to shower, especially after playing sport. Katherine is one place in Australia which is regarded by those expert in climatic matters as a very difficult place to live. Shower facilities were not regarded by the Committee as a luxury but as an essential. 
Sitting suspended from 1.2 to 2.15 p.m. 

 Mr CALDER (Northern Territory) (2.1 SiMr  Deputy Speaker,  I support the motion for the approval of work on the school at Katherine South. I note that the proposal is for a new type of modular design which will be of tremendous advantage in the Northern Territory because it will allow a similar school to be built without extra cost and design time. One hopes that there will be some advantage in reducing the cost of producing this type of school in other parts of the Northern Territory. I commend the decision, which has been taken in conformity with the wishes of the people of Katherine that the Clyde Fenton school, which was originally envisaged to handle the situation, is to be built later to accommodate 400 children, instead of these 2 schools being combined with a school population of 800. This was considered by the parents and citizens of Katherine to be of an unwieldy size and to the disadvantage of the pupils concerned. I express pleasure at the speed with which this decision has been made. I compliment the members of the Public Works Committee and also the - 
-The 2 measures before the House are temporary measures or extensions of temporary arrangements that have now been in existence for some considerable time. The first Bill, the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Amendment Bill, simply extends the time of the application of the Provisions of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act from 1 July 1977 to 1 January 1978. The second Bill extends the duration of the charges to bring them into line with that period. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his second reading speech explained the necessity for these Bills. He explained that the Government intends in the spring session to bring in substantive legislation to deal with the difficulties associated with the stevedoring industry in Australia. 
During the course of his speech the Minister used a curious expression twice. He spoke about a report by the  Chairman  of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference,  Sir Richard  Kirby, and he simply said: 'The report will now be available publicly'. He said the same thing about a report by  Mr Neil  Stevens. I am rather intrigued as to why the Minister did not table the reports. It is essential that members of my Party have access to those reports, because when the Minister and the Government bring in substantive legislation in the spring session we would like to have had the advantage of studying the report during the winter recess to make ourselves familiar with it and to confer with the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and other waterfront unions- I understand that there is already agreement on it- on the basis of the report. Naturally we would like to make ourselves familiar with that report so that when the amending legislation, which I believe will be very substantive, is introduced in the Budget session we will be familiar with the report. 
I understand that there is in the view of the Minister and the Government a need to have the legislation passed through the House as quickly as possible in the August session. If we are able to hold our conversations and carry out our deliberations when the House is not meeting, the Minister will find that the Opposition is better equipped to assist him to get the legislation through the House as quickly as possible provided, of course, that it meets with our agreement. We have no opposition at all to the legislation that is before the House. We will do nothing either in this place or in another place to obstruct it. It is something that must be done today or not done at all as the present legislation expires on 30 June. Therefore the Opposition does not oppose these measures but may not adopt the same attitude when the substantive legislation comes before this House in August. 
I am always attracted to rise in this place whenever the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  gives us the benefit of his wisdom. It is very refreshing to hear him speaking tonight in glowing terms of unions. On every other occasion on which he has spoken in this House about trade unions he has referred to them as mainland industrial gangsters. That is the sort of expression he uses when it suits him, but when it suits him to attack the Government in Tasmania he can twist very quickly and very sharply and turn his coat inside out quicker than anybody I know. The man has got no credibility in this chamber and he has even less credibility in Denison. He has seen the results of the redistribution, as I have, and he knows that he cannot retain the seat of Denison any longer than the next election. It was interesting to hear this man. I understand that in respect of the tragic incident of the ship  Lake Illawarra  striking the bridge over the Derwent River the honourable member for Denison made great political capita] out of it, both at that time and afterwards, and he was about the same thing tonight. 
Surely there has to be some justice in this matter. I do not know the rights and wrongs of the State Government in Tasmania doing the things that the honourable member has suggested it was going to do. I am a native of Melbourne and was born there more years ago than I am going to tell. The honourable member talks about roads crossing railway lines. Right at the terminus of the rail system in Melbourne, a road crosses the railway lines. It divides the Flinders Street rail terminus from the Princes Bridge rail terminus. Let me also remind the honourable member that it is the Australian Government which owns the railways. I think the honourable member called the service the Tasman Limited. I understand that it takes nine hours to go 90 miles on that train. As I understand the position, it was the Australian Labor Government that baled out the railways. So why should not the Australian Minister for Transport be involved in the opening? He is the owner of that system. 
-I am sure that  Mr Coates,  if he happens to be the opponent of the honourable member at the next election, is not concerned about 5,000 votes. The present encumbent of the seat ought to be worried. From my experiences of this gentleman, the honourable member for Denison, I know that he is worried. I know this from comments that he has made to people around this place. It is well known in Denison that there will be a change of member. I might also remind the honourable member that there is a history in the federal division of Denison-he may well know this and bear it in mind-that the member for that electorate invariably comes from the government party. The honourable member for Denison can check that back. I am putting to him that  Mr Coates  will be the honourable member for Denison after the next elections. The honourable member may draw his own conclusions from that. 
It seems to me that there has to be some honesty and consistency about people who rise in this place and raise matters that are of national interest. That is the reason that they are raised in the national Parliament. People should not be shifting from one foot to another like an ice skater trying to get from one place to another and, as it suits them, calling trade unions mainland industrial gangsters, and then on another occasion standing in this House to praise and applaud the Australian Railways Union. I am pleased that the honourable member for Denison did that because the Australian Railways Union, like the other 360-odd unions in Australia, is a responsible body. I am glad that the honourable member for Denison now agrees that there is responsibility in the trade union movement and that the trade unions themselves are responsible people. Furthermore, I am glad he agrees that they have the right to express a view on matters that affect them. When other issues come before the House I look forward to the support of the honourable member for Denison. I look forward to his support for those unions that are taking action in respect of questions that affect their members and all people in the community generally. The honourable member has broken the ice tonight and, for the first time in the short time he will spend in this House, has put a case fairly and squarely. I hope that he continues to do so in future and I look forward to his support on all of these questions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The House adjourned at 10.53 p.m. 

 -Mr Speaker, the Opposition registers the strongest - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-My grievance today relates to a very serious matter which is being discussed in the Victorian Parliament at the moment. It is very strongly related to events that have taken place in this Parliament since at least December 1972. After taking office in December 1972, particularly during the 1973-74 financial year, the Labor Government in Canberra made very large sums of money available to the various States for a variety of purposes. The Labor Government recognised the problems being experienced by the States in raising sufficient finance from their traditional sources and adopted a rational approach to the matter. 
Prior to the elections in December 1972 the Australian Labor Party promised to help the States to overcome the enormous backlog that existed in the provision of services in the urban development, roads, sewerage and housing fields and in many other fields. The Victorian Liberal Government benefited from this assistance as much as the other States in most of those areas. In some areas it probably did better than most of the other States. Clearly no bias or prejudice was displayed by the then Labor Government in Canberra. An honest and sincere attempt was made by the Labor Government quickly to catch up on the shortages created during 23 years of complacent government. Nevertheless the Labor Government was constantly attacked by those who now sit in government in this place and by the State governments which were being assisted. Party politics prevailed and the welfare of the people became secondary. 
Quite recently members of the Labor Party in the Victorian Legislative Assembly have been tirelessly pursuing and questioning the Liberal Government in that State on the activities of the Housing Commission of Victoria in the purchase of land for the construction of low cost housing. The  Age  newspaper has shared their concern about these deals and its insight team came up with some very interesting information. The Liberal Party Premier of that State endeavoured firstly to shrug off the matter, but the prima facie evidence was too strong and he finally succumbed to the demands for the holding of an inquiry into the allegations. Even so the terms of reference of the inquiry are fairly restricted. That remains a matter for his conscience. 
The scenario goes like this: For years it has been the practice of the Housing Commission of Victoria when it is seeking land to buy it in broad acres and then to subdivide it, service it and erect homes upon it for those in the low income bracket. The curious thing that continually arises in the cases under review is that the Housing Commission has never bought the land directly from the original vendors. A developer or finance company always has been the owner of the land when the Housing Commission has decided to buy. Following past practice, the Valuer-General is required to appraise the land and to recommend an offer to be made for it by the Housing Commission. In the case of the Sunbury purchase the land was zoned as rural and was being used for that purpose when it came under the ownership of a finance company known as Lensworth Finance, which made an offer for it to the farmer owning the land. The land was then valued by the Valuer-General as though it were residential land and not rural land, which in fact it was. As a consequence it was bought by the Housing Commission for $1.5m more than was paid for it some twenty short days before that by the finance company. 
The point that arises out of all this is that at that time large sums of money were being made available by the Australian Labor Party Government in Canberra to the various States to help them to overcome their problems, particularly their difficulty in housing people in the lower income bracket. Money was squandered by the irresponsible Government in Victoria in the purchase of land at Sunbury that I have just mentioned. It is only one small instance of money being squandered by an irresponsible Liberal government. That happened with regard to land at Pakenham that also was purchased by the Housing Commission. After its purchase it was found that the land was flood prone and that not all of it could be used for housing. In this regard I quote from an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 9 August of this year, which states: 
The Housing Commission paid more than $2. 5m in 1973 to buy land that the local shire had valued at $355,900 4 years earlier. 
The land, at Pakenham, was the first of three massive land buys on which the Commission laid out more than $10m in 1973. 
Some of the Pakenham land was later ruled to be flood prone. Two-thirds of its has since been banned from urban development 
The Commission bought the land as four adjoining parcels between the Princes Highway and the Gippsland railway line, west of Pakenham township. 
Toomuc Creek runs through the middle of it 
On average the Commission paid more than seven times as much as Berwick's shire valuers had said the land was worth four years earlier. 
If that sort of irresponsibility had not been engaged in by this incompetent government in Victoria there would not be some 16,000 to 18,000 people still on the waiting list of the Housing Commisison for accommodation in homes. If those millions of dollars had not gone into the pockets of real estate developers through deals that are yet to be investigated quite a number of those people who live with their relatives or live in makeshift accommodation and caravans would be living in houses settled on a nice piece of ground. That is an example of the sort of irresponsible attitude that was adopted by the Liberal Government. I have also done some very interesting reading regarding the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. In this regard I refer to an article written by  Mr John  Hurst in the  Nation Review  of 6 July of this year, which reads: 
One of Australia's biggest finance companies, the American owned Industrial Acceptance Corporation, stands to make several million dollars, and perhaps a lot more in the long run, in a land deal with Victorian Government planning instrumentality, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. 
The IAC, S 1 per cent owned by Citicorp, an offshoot of the Bank of America, holds about 1,500 acres of land at Point Cook on Port Phillip Bay. It has been mortgagee in possession since the collapse of Cambridge Credit in 1 974. 
IAC has found it difficult to sell the land because most of it has been zoned rural by the Board. 
That is the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. The article continues: 
Authoritative sources now claim the IAC is negotiating to sell the Board about 750 acres of the land for about $5,000 an acre. At that price the Board would be paying the IAC $3,750,000 of public money. 
And the other 750 acres? Well the sources say that the Board might be willing to rezone it residential. If that happened the price could up to $10,000 an acre or more and the IAC would stand to make a few more million clear profit. 
Again we have an example of the gross inefficiency and incompetency of the Victorian Liberal Government in allowing people to become rich out of money that has been made available to the State Government or an instrumentality like the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works to enable it to get on with the job of either building houses for people or catching up on the backlog in the provision of sewerage services. In only three short years tens of millions of dollars went from this Parliament to the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works for it to do the task it is supposed to do, and that is to catch up on the sewerage backlog. Now it also is of a mind to pay high prices for land- very high prices which are way outside any valuation. I leave it to each honourable member to determine in his own mind the Board 's motive for doing this. 
The point is that Australian Government money, money from all the taxpayers in Australia, was provided with the best of intentions by a Labor government that did care about getting things done. It was criticised greatly by the Liberals in this country for doing so, but now we find that it was those who were doing the criticising who were squandering money left, right and centre and making individuals rich. There is evidence that officials of the Liberal Party and officials of the Premier and of the Minister for Planning were all involved in these things in one way or another. A public inquiry is going on, but the only problem about it is that the terms of reference are perhaps not as broad as they ought to be. This is a matter of great disgrace and great shame to the Liberal Party of Australia- not that that is any surprise to a number of people. This matter must be cleared up. It has to be said in this House that there has been a squandering of funds by incompetent Liberal governments, in Victoria at least. That sort of thing ought to be drawn to the attention of this Parliament because it was this Parliament which voted the money. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am a little astounded that someone who seemed to have a vested interest in this whole matter spoke for only five minutes of the 20 minutes allotted to him. 
-I am taking part in the debate. If the Minister had cared to follow the debate he would have known that I was to be the next  speaker.  Someone told me that shortly after the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  came to this illustrious House in 1975 he had his name painted in water paint on the front window of his office because the sign would be easy to remove. Judging by the speech he made tonight, the time to do that is not too far off. The honourable member raised the question whether there was an appeal against any decision arbitrarily taken by any person who cared to issue the order or a Minister- and I think that is important. He said that if there was not provision in the Bill for an appeal he would vote against it. For the information of the honourable member let me say that the Bill does not contain provision for an appeal. So we look forward to seeing the honourable member sitting on the reverse side of the chamber of where he normally sits. 
The important issue about this legislation is that it was introduced in haste. It was not prepared in haste; it was prepared some time ago. A red herring has been drawn across the path of this chamber tonight in the form of the postal workers dispute at the Redfern Mail Exchange. No member on the Government side really believes that this measure has anything to do with the postal dispute at Redfern. It just happens that that is a current industrial dispute. 
-Yes. This measure was drafted when the air traffic controllers, who are not affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions, took industrial action in order to have their position resolved. I want to make some points about that matter. Honourable members opposite told us before the election in 1975, and they have told us since, that an industrial dispute should take place not by direction of the elected officials of a union but after a poll or ballot has been taken among those who are affected by the dispute. That happened in the case of the air traffic controllers. They did conduct a ballot. 
-Yes, I do support it. I supported it then and I support it now. For the information of the honourable member for Hume, who is probably the most ignorant member in this House on industrial matters, that proposition has always been in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. So we shall no more be put off by that sort of stupid talk from the most ignorant member in this chamber on industrial matters. 
-The dispute was determined by the members of the air traffic controllers organisation by way of secret postal ballot. These are words that I have heard used in this chamber before. They decided that they would stop work. 
-They did stop work and on the next occasion - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, you would be the wisest person to ever occupy the chair, with the exception of the  Speaker  from time to time, and I acknowledge your views on these matters. I was making the point that the rules which members of the Liberal Party thought should apply in respect of industrial disputes were obeyed in the air traffic controllers dispute which prompted this piece of legislation. The air traffic controllers held a ballot to decide whether they would go on strike. They decided by way of secret ballot, at all airports in Australia, that they would go on strike. 
-Look, if that ignoramus from Hume - 
-But, sir - 

 -No, Sir, I do not intend to withdraw the remark. I called the honourable member for Hume an ignoramus. I did this because when I tried to make the point that provision exists for the holding of secret ballots in respect of industrial disputes the honourable member for Hume denied that such legislation exists. If he denies that such legislation exists he is an ignoramus and, sir, I have every right to call him so. 
-Yes, sir. He is a blockhead. 
-AU right. I withdrew the description of the honourable member as an ignoramus and blockhead and say that, being a member of the National Country Party, he wil understand what I mean when I say that he has a head as thick as a butt of beef. Let me get on with the measure before the House. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  made the point earlier today in this House that provided a public servant or employee- I think it is very important to stress this point-of the Aus.tralian Government carries out the duties for which he is engaged no Minister can sack him. 
-' Quite right', says the honourable member for Denison, who is as ignorant in these matters as the honourable member for Casey. Let us go to the Bill and see what it has to say about this matter. Clause 5 of this BUI reads: 
Where, by reason of the existence of any industrial action (including industrial action in which Commonwealth employees are not engaged) - 
persons who are Commonwealth employees in relation to an employing authority cannot be usefully employed; or 
there is serious disruption to the performance of a function by an employing authority, being a function in connection with the performance of which persons who are Commonwealth employees in relation to the employing authority are employed, the employing authority may, by instrument in writing, declare that Commonweal 1th employees specified in the declaration, being all or some of the Commonwealth employees referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) but not being Commonwealth employees engaged in the industrial action, are stood down during the period commencing at such time as is specified in the declaration (not being a time earlier than the time at which the declaration is made) and ending at the time at which the declaration ceases, or is deemed to have ceased, to have effect. 
Anybody who has a simple understanding of the English language Will understand what that means when taken into account with the clause about which we are talking- clause 11- which reads: 
A declaration or determination has effect according to its tenor, and so has effect notwithstanding any law, or any award, that is inconsistent with the declaration or determination. 
It should be patently clear to the most thickheaded member of the National Country Party or Liberal Party in this House that in fact the Minister or the authority has the right to dismiss any public servant for any reason. Public servants and employees of the Australian Government come in many categories and are of many colours and shades of opinion. That applies from the permanent head of a department down to the person who drives a mail truck. Let us forget this usiness about the Redfern Mail Exchange. It has nothing to do with this matter. It is a red herring that has been introduced into this debate by honourable members opposite. The real reason for the preparation of this Bill, as I pointed out earlier, was the air traffic controllers dispute. Somebody- I think it was the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)mentioned  that their co-workers in the United States of America cannot go on strike. That is true. What he did not say is that the salary received by a fellow worker in America is round about twice the salary paid to an air traffic controller in Australia. So the American controllers have an incentive for not going on strike. 
What are honourable members opposite about? I will tell the House what they are about and I will tell the people of Australia who are listening to the broadcast of this debate what they are all about. The economy of this country is in a mess. The unemployment rate will rise to 8 per cent of the work force- half a million peoplecome Christmas of next year, when 250 000 people will be leaving schools and universities and looking for their first job and will not be able to find it. The Government cannot control the rate of inflation. It was over 13 per cent last year. It is going to be higher this year. The Government cannot control the Budget deficit. It cannot deliver the promises that it made to the Australian people in 1975. The Government wants to have a House of Representatives election before 30 June 1978. The reason for that is patently clear. If it has only a half Senate election, which it is bound to have before 30 June, it will get the daylights licked out of it. If the Government had the daylights licked out of it then, as is going to happen in South Austrafia on 17 September, it would destroy the morale of honourable members opposite. 
Let us look at the people now sitting in this chamber who are from the Liberal and National Country parties. Apart from my old friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is presently sitting on the other side of the chamber, nobody on the other side of the chamber would come back after such an election. I could name them if I wished. Not one of them would come back. Perhaps the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  would come back. I think he has some claims to the seat of Richmond. Honourable members opposite are worried and frightened. They would not be able to win an election on the promises that they made in 1975 when they confused the Australian people. They would not be able to win one on that score. I am sorry for omitting to mention my old friend the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  He will be back as he also has a rather secure seat. Honourable members opposite cannot win on that score. So what do they have to do? They have to manufacture one. They think that they have done so. But they have misunderstood the situation. They have read the gallup polls, the public opinion polls, and have found that round about 60 per cent of the people of 
Australia say that the Government should bash the unions; but they have forgotten that we have in Australia a work force of 6 million people, most of whom belong to unions and most of whom have wives and children. 
-They are out of work because of the policies of this anti-worker Government. But honourable members opposite have misread the polls. They knew that they could not win an election on economic issues so they thought that they would give the unions a bit of a roughing up and a bash. They have failed miserably with the legislation that the Government has brought into this place. Again I refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Casey, who is a most esteemed member of the Liberal and National Country Party coalition. Honourable members opposite may not invite the honourable member for Hotham to their party meetings but they at least invite the honourable member for Casey. He said earlier today that the policies of the Government of the day are to be carried out. I wrote after that the notation 'whether they are good or not'. Nobody in this chamber is young enough not to remember the Germany of the 1930s, the rise of fascism in Germany, the rise of the National Socialist Party, the rise of Hitler and the bashing down of the unions. 
-I said the National Socialists. There is a bit of a difference. The National Socialist Party is the sort of party to which the honourable member would belong. Honourable members will all recall that occasion. The people of Germany, who were being led out of the wild oppression of the allied forces of the 1914-18 War, all sat down on their derrieres and said one after the other 'The law is the law and it must be obeyed'. What has been said to us in this House today? The Government said that no person in Australia, be he a member of parliament or a member of the union, will ever have the right to question the divinity of this Government and its right to take decisions and impose them on the people of Australia. 
While walking up the back stairs of this building today my very good friend the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  happened to bump into  Mr George  Polites, whose name is known to all honourable members opposite.  Mr George  Polites said to my friend  Mr Willis:  Have you seen it yet?' My friend,  Mr Willis,  is a most honourable man. He does not have the devious sort of mind that I have. He said: 'What am I supposed to have seen?'  Mr George  Polites said: 'The Bill'. Ralph Willis said: 'What Bill?'  Mr George  Polites said: 'Oh, the one that is going to knock hell out of the union blokes. ' This happened this morning. Since that time by friend Ralph Willis has been busily poking around the Minister's office. It is a pity that he is not here because he would tell us that this is so. 
-Where is he? Why does he not stand up so that I can see him? No, I am sorry, I am speaking about the Minister. It is the Minister whom I cannot see when he is standing up. However, my friend Ralph Willis, the honourable member for Gellibrand, has been busy all day trying to find out what he should have seen. 

 -Yes. Mr Polites told him. My friend the honourable member for Gellibrand wanted to know what he should have seen. He should have gone and spoken to  Mr Peter  Costigan of the Melbourne  Herald  because he knew last night. Nobody bothered to tell any member of the Australian Labor Party,  Her  Majesty's loyal Opposition, what was going on. You told  Mr Polites  and you told  Mr Costigan  of the Melbourne  Herald.  You probably told everybody around the town who was not a friend of the Australian Labor Party. 
-I address a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to a recent statement in which the right honourable gentleman said that the proposed new tax scales would be of great benefit to the country in that they would encourage people to work overtime. I ask: Why does the right honourable gentleman want to encourage people to work overtime? Would not the working of increased overtime in the current economic circumstances simply mean that there would be fewer employment opportunities for those seeking jobs, thereby leading to increased unemployment? 
-The shallowness of the Government's argument and its naivete on this whole question have never been more exposed than they were during the 15 minutes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  spoke to the House on this question. He almost led us to believe that if somebody intended to rob a bank he would contact the police and invite them to inspect the drawing board on a daily basis. The Minister overlooked the fact that the very dangerous by-product of the use of uranium for power production is plutonium, which becomes the core for nuclear weapons. Does he honestly think that he can say to any nation to which this country decides to sell uranium: 'Do you spit and promise to die if you tell a lie that you will not use this for violent purposes?', and the nation will abide by that promise forever more if it has nefarious thoughts in its mind? Does he think that will be binding? If he does he is far more naive even than I thought he was when I rose to speak. 
-Far be it from me to hurt the feelings of the Minister for Defence. If he had spoken before me he would have got a serve too. 
-I am sure the honourable gentlemen can withstand my vicious criticism of them. The question evolves into two arguments. It starts with a point which the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned- the question of the provision of energy for, as he put it, an energy deficient world. One of the unfortunate things about this debate which, of necessity, in the community must be charged with high emotion because of the consequences of the mining, enriching and using of uranium is that the matter has been brought into this Parliament with rather indecent haste. It has been dragged up by a government that is discredited on its last legs and has already been renounced by its former Attorney-General. The dogs in the town are barking that the next person to go will be the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  because the present Budget is known as the Lynch Budget. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  does not want to be associated with it. The Government is in such bad shape economically and cannot straighten out the mess into which it has got the country that it feels it must have some sort of issue on which to have an early election. It has brought forward this matter with indecent haste to try to provoke the community into committing violence, as it has done on one occasion, to ensure that there is an issue on which the Government can go to the people at the appropriate time. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs made one very curious statement. He talked about coal as an alternative source to oil for energy production. He said that coal brings about environmental problems; therefore it was desirable not to use coal. It seems to me, from all I have read and from all I have heard, even with the unbiased mind that I have on the question, that the use of enriched uranium for the production of power or for any other purpose will create far greater environmental problems than the use of coal. There seemed to be some anomaly in the argument on that point. The Minister said that the Opposition is not aware of the difficulties being faced by a world that is aware of the fact that it is running out of renewable sources of energy. The Opposition is very much aware of that fact but is quite prepared to weigh up the difficulties and not be panic-stricken into taking rather draconian measures on this whole question. 
The House knows and the people of Australia know that it is not all that long ago that the Fox report on the Ranger proposal came into this Parliament. It was felt by the Opposition, it was certainly said by the Government, it was recommended in the report and it was believed by the community that a considerable time would elapse to allow proper and informed debate in the community on this whole question. Suddenly the Prime Minister and five of his Ministers marched into this House almost a fortnight ago and treated the people of Australia to statements of what they intended to do. Everybody thought- in fact the daily Press the next day gave the distinct impression- that as of one week from then, perhaps the end of this year or perhaps early next year uranium would start to be mined and the economy would start to boom because we would be exporting something like 2,000 or 2,500 short tons of this material. One newspaper which I read stated that 500,000 people would be employed. By February of next year that will just about equate with the number of unfortunate people in Australia who cannot find employment. 
Nobody, least of all the Prime Minister, bothered to say that none of this will really happen for about five years. He certainly did not highlight the fact. That is his usual technique. It will get started then. In fact, nothing much will happen until 1994-95. 1 quote from the speech of  Mr Anthony  of almost a fortnight ago: 
The Ranger Inquiry's forecasts also indicate that development of a national uranium industry will result in the creation of considerable direct employment opportunities. Based on the assumption that construction of the first project would commence in 1977-78, with production and sales commencing in 1981-82 at an average rate of around 2,000 short tons uranium oxide, increasing at about that rate until 1994-95 when total output would reach 27,300 short tons, the Ranger Inquiry forecast that a total work force of between 2,000 and 2,500 would probably be directly employed in the industry. Additionally, the Inquiry forecast that construction activities associated with any such development could provide direct employment for up to 1,500 workers at any one time. 
How the figure of 500,000 workers was arrived at is beyond my comprehension. I think every person who drives a power turbine anywhere must have been included and regarded as being employed because somebody was mining uranium in Australia. The Government, having done all of that with great and indecent haste, decided that perhaps it would not get sufficient milage out of this decision unless it were able to provoke somebody into taking some violent action. 
Contrary to the advice of the Inquiry, the whole issue was then brought within the scope of the Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947-1973 and the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1956. If I read some excerpts from those Acts honourable members will see what I am driving at. The Approved Defence Projects Protection Act, which was brought in in 1947 and amended in 1973, provides penalties for any person who acts as follows:  ... by boycott or threat of boycott of any person, property, work or undertaking prevents, hinders or obstructs, or endeavours to prevent, hinder or obstruct, the carrying out of an approved defence project 
That carries a pretty substantial penalty. The Act further states:  ... if the offence is prosecuted summarily- a fine of not more than One thousand dollars or imprisonment for not more than six months; and ... if the offence is prosecuted upon indictment-a fine of not more than Ten thousand dollars or imprisonment for not more than twelve months, or both. 
In those few words an 'approved defence project' was mentioned. As I understand it, a uranium mine would not be an approved defence project per se. The Government knew that. It then whipped out the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1956, which just happened to contain a clause which suited it. That Act states: 
The Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947 - 
That is the Act from which I just quoted-  applies to and in relation to all works carried out by or on behalf of the Commission as if those works were approved defence projects within the meaning of that Act. 
So if the Atomic Energy Commission carries out any works they will be, by definition, approved defence projects and will carry with them the penalties previously mentioned. So the Government tied that one up pretty neatly. But it did not have to go to all that trouble because it already had the amended Trade Practices Act. Section 45D of that Act, as amended, carries a penalty of a quarter of a million dollars against anyone who threatens boycotts. 
The Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill, which has passed through this House and the other place but has not yet been proclaimed, lies as a great waddy which is ready to be used to beat any Commonwealth employee who decides to withdraw his labour or to perform work in a way different from the way it is normally performed. So we find that there is not just a double-barrelled shotgun pointed at the heads of the community on this one; it is a triple-barrelled shotgun, and it is loaded with buckshot. This is the ploy of the Government on this issue. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in particular, has quite a reputation in this House and outside for the way in which he can connive and bring about situations. There is no doubt that he wants to bring about a confrontation in the community. That man, supported by those who sit behind him on the other side of the chamber, is quite content to tear in half the fabric of the Australian community and Australian society generally to serve his own nefarious ends. 

 A section of the Australian community- I deign to predict it will be a large section of the Australian community-will take great offence on this issue. A great number of Australian people, as they understand the situation more, will oppose this measure and will find themselves in no end of difficult situations because of the Acts which now cover this sort of thing. The legislation which this Government has been bringing into this Parliament, having it passed through this place and the other place, and having it receive assent, has been enacted with one purpose in mind, namely, to divide the Australian community. 
I ask honourable members to cast their minds back to the 1960s when there was a war in Vietnam in which Australia was involved. In the early stages this war did not receive much opposition from the Australian people, but as the story began to be told, and as the dangers of that situation unfolded and became apparent to the people in the Australian community, their voices grew and grew to the point where the Government had to take some action. In fact, it finally lost office through that issue. The same sort of situation exists today. There is a danger, a threat and a risk not just to the Australian community but to the whole world community in the use of this nuclear material. 
The background papers which were supplied with the copies of the speeches made by the Prime Minister and his Ministers concerning the Government's decisions on uranium are very interesting. It contained a document entitled: 'Your Questions Answered'. Frankly, I should need somebody to answer questions better than these questions have been answered. That document contains the following question: 
How will the waste be permanently disposed of! 
For a start, that is not even good grammar. The answer given is as follows: 
It is proposed that the solidified wastes will be encased in steel cylinders and buried deep in stable rock. 
The answer goes on from there. But nowhere in that document are we told of the half-life of the material that is to be disposed of- to use the same kind of grammar as is used in the document. This material is lethal for something like 250,000 years. It is less than 2,000 years since the crucifixion of Christ, the time which we regard as the commencement of our particular period of civilisation, although I realise it goes back further than that. But how far back does it go? The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  will be able to tell me that because he is quite knowledgeable in history. But it does not go back much beyond the Phoenicians. It does not go back much more than 5,500 years. An old Chinese proverb states that time is like a crack in the ground under a speeding horse. 
When one considers the short time that man has been recording his existence on this planet and the enormous time that represents the halflife of this material one starts to realise the dangers involved, as we see them. It is not we who are acting irresponsibily in this matter; it is the Government, because it has no firm safeguards to offer the Australian people apart from its own rhetoric. That will not protect the people of Australia and of the world from the dangers that emanate from this material. Until that problem is solved, until appropriate technology is evolved, I believe uranium should remain in the ground. I do not say that it should remain there forever more, but that the technical problems associated with it should be solved before any thought is given to making it available to those people in the world over whom we will have no control, irrespective of the fine words used by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
-The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'keefe)  treated the House to 20 minutes of pork barrelling, which is indicative of the attitude of the National Country Party to the national affairs of this country. It is not a question of my not having any regard for the farmer; I have an extraordinarily high regard for the farmer and have never been ashamed to say so. After listening to honourable members from the National Country Party it seems to me that they do not have a very high regard for the people whom they presume and pretend to represent. 
The honourable member for Paterson made some curious statements to which I feel obliged to reply. He started to talk about unemployment and then blamed the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut applied by the Labor Party for it. I do wish that the honourable member would speak to his Party colleagues because everybody across the length and the breadth of this country knows that the National Country Party is a free trade party and does not believe in tariffs. Although it does not believe in tariffs, its members still use this rather spurious argument in this House. 
The honourable member for Paterson spoke about the rate of inflation. I remind him that in the last quarter of the Labor Party's period in office inflation had been reduced to 0.8 per cent. If the honourable member wants to do some arithmetic he will find that that represents 3.2 per cent for the whole year. He made great play of tax relief. He said that single people earning $3,750 a year should not have to pay taxes. He said this about four times. He must be tickled ink to think that people who earn about $64 or 65 a week should not pay tax. Of course they should not pay tax. They could not even live on that income. I do not see that it is any great feather in the Government's cap that it can now state that those people ought not to pay tax. That is only fair, reasonable, proper and just. 
He then went on in similar vein to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I asked the Prime Minister a question about tax concessions in the House the other day. Of course, as he usually does when he is asked a question which he cannot answer, he went around the world. He was almost a Marco Polo. He did say that the tax concessions would help people who wanted to work overtime. The honourable member for Paterson said the same thing tonight. Do they not realise that almost 400,000 people in Australia are out of work, that almost 400,000 people are existing on unemployment benefit and are looking for employment? 
We have the Prime Minister and the honourable member for Paterson lauding the fact that people are now being encouraged and, in fact, persuaded to work overtime, to work over weekends. While the honourable member for Paterson was saying this his colleagues sat there and said: 'Hear, hear'. I heard an honourable member say in this House today that people would now be encouraged to work at two jobs. Where is their sincerity? They bring in a tax scheme which they claim will assist people to keep somebody else out of a job. Is that what they mean to say to us? I and the people of Australia heard them say that they will pay people to keep other people out of work. 
There is another point on which I should like to take issue with the honourable member for Paterson. Words fail me to describe this because this question of a rural bank is so specious. What a lot of window dressing and nonsense it is! The Commonwealth Bank of Australia has branches in every country town and in every suburban area now, as honourable members opposite would know and as I know. It is only a matter of extending those facilities and we would already have a rural bank. The Government does not have to set up another bureaucracy, to buy more buildings and to employ more staff. 
We have experts in the Commonwealth Bank now. If the Government wants to make funds available to farmers at a cheaper rate of interest, why can it not do so through the Commonwealth Bank? But no, that does not suit honourable members opposite. They have to pork barrel the farmers again. They have to window-dress and to say to the farmers that they will set up a special rural bank. What a lot of stuff and nonsense that is! The sooner the farmers of Australia see through these frauds who pretend to represent them in this House the better off the country will be. Certainly those people who work in and live off the land will be better off. 
There has been an obvious fiddling of the books in presenting this Budget. The lack of understanding of the Budget by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister is causing back bench supporters of the Government to speak in a confused way. They do not know whether to support the Treasurer, whether to support the Prime Minister, or whether to tell the truth. The socalled income tax relief is a fraud. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  admits this. He admits his fears concerning this by giving an assurance that a guarantee will be given that no taxpayer will be worse off after the new scheme commences. 
-I wrote this, but I was indicating what the Minister for Primary Industry had said. If he is so sure, as honourable members opposite appear to be, that the tax scheme is going to benefit everybody, why does he have to say that he will ensure that nobody is disadvantaged by the scheme? He knows, as we know, and as honourable members opposite are starting to find out as they read the Budget documents and the facts start to filter through to them, that it is a fraud, that nobody in Australia except people in the higher income groups will be better off and that because the Government has not indexed the family allowance people in the lower income bracket will be worse off. 
The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  pointed out earlier today how much less a week people will be bringing home. So the so-called income tax relief is a complete and utter fraud. It has been exposed as such by  speaker  after  speaker  from the Labor Party. Today our proceedings are being broadcast and we do have a large listening audience. The people of Australia are starting to realise just how fraudulent this whole scheme is. 
The Budget delivered on Tuesday, 16 August, was the anticlimax of the century. Like a damp squib, it fizzed for only as long as it took knowledgeable people to read it. This Government's theory that the community is gullible enough to swallow anything is not shared by me or the community. The principal section of this Budget which could have added stimulus to the private sector is the civil works program, which stands this year with an allocation of approximately $375m. This is one item which cannot be plucked out of the Budget and treated as a one year only item. 
The Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  does believe that it is possible to extract figures and say that expenditure will increase this year over the expenditure last year. By their nature and magnitude, the construction of many projects will extend beyond one year, possibly over a number of years. The planning and documentation of a major project takes a number of years. Therefore, it is necessary to consider trends over a number of years rather than each year in isolation. The works for which the Minister now claims credit were planned during the reign of another Minister and, indeed, another government. 
If one compares the amounts allocated this year for works under the control of the Department of Construction with amounts for previous years one finds a winding down of the works program rather than an acceleration. This year, for example, it is expected that $93m will be spent on works. Last year the amount was $7Sm, so there has been an increase of $ 18m. However, if we add to these figures for last year, which are just figures on paper, an amount equal to an increase in building costs over the year we find that the $7Sm at current prices becomes approximately $90m. Therefore, the real increase in funds allocated in this area is a miserable $3m. 
Let us return to the last allocation made by the Labor Government- the program for 1975-76. In that year the Labor Government allocated $130m for current works. At today's prices it would be necessary for the Government to allocate approximately. $ 190m just to keep up. Of the other two areas of allocation, the Darwin Reconstruction Commission is, of course, winding down as the task which confronted the Commission is being completed. At the expiration of the Commission's operations at the end of this year these funds will again return to the Department of Construction or perhaps to some authority in the Northern Territory. The works program for the Australian Capital Territory is being reduced this year by approximately $40m in real terms. It is no wonder that that reduction in expenditure is being made. The present Government is actively stifling enterprise and driving away those who would show enterprise. It threatens to stand down or to dismiss its own employees at the whim of a Minister or an unpredictable Prime Minister. 
Let me return to the economics of the Budget as it relates to civil works. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  told us in this chamber recently that if we maintain our civil works program we will have to finance the works constructed. That is almost as illuminating as saying that Tasmania is an island totally surrounded by water. The honourable member reflected the mentality of the members of this Government when it comes to spending. They believe that all spending is an expense and therefore can be trimmed. I put it to the House that spending on the creation of assets is far from the expense but simply the exchange of one assetmoney for another asset- a building, a road, a harbour or an airport. 
The curious system used by the Governmentused by successive governments- is to construct its assets from revenue. When revenue is curtailed so is the creation of assets. How absurd! Assets are frequently a means by which to obtain revenue. So this Government's weird attitude towards raising revenue from the public and then spending it for the public benefit is that we enter a circular flight path of ever-diminishing circles until we finally disappear. The Government's attitude is that the individuals in our community should decide separately how their income will be spent. How does the Government expect individuals to contribute to the cost of schools, hospitals, roads, railways, harbours and the rest of the infrastructure needed to enable a democratic society to develop? The important factor overlooked by the Government is that its friends who believe in and practise the free enterprise system require an infrastructure, organised along socialist lines, in order to survive. 
Civil works projects can be financed other than by revenue. They can be financed by public borrowings. They can be financed by deficit budgeting, thus becoming a no-interest borrowing against the future earnings of the communityearnings enhanced by the assets created. Government members do not understand this and are caught in their own rhetoric of 'balancing the books'. How naive! But let us look at who is being injured by this simplistic approach to a complex question. This Government proudly and loudly proclaims, almost to the point of hysteria, that it will support the free enterprise system. It is the last Government in the civilised world to do so. It is the free enterprise system which is being injured by cutbacks in civil works programs. It is injured just as much if the program stands still. 
The Department of Construction is an excellent planning, design and supervisory body. Contrary to its name, it is not a constructor. Construction work is done by contractors in the community who tender for the work. For the term contractors in the community' one should read the term 'free enterprise'. It is the contractors who engage the labour and order the materials. Their employees are not public servants; they are tradesmen, labourers and others who are now standing in queues outside branches of the Commonwealth Employment Office to collect dole cheques. They are anxious for work. That is a human resource wasted. The contractors are not government departments; they are public companies with premises, plant, equipment and tools. The shareholders are looking for dividends; the equipment and the tools are lying idle. It is a case of a construction capacity being unused. The suppliers of materials are free enterprise organisations which are anxious to supply to anybody able to pay. They also have a capacity to employ if the work is available. Who is denying them the opportunity to employ? The answer is this myopic Government. 
The Government speaks of a consumer-led recovery. Well, its finger is on the trigger. All it has to do is to pull it. But, of course, we are told by the temporary occupants of the Government benches that any activity at all will be inflationary. We are told that it is inflationary to budget for a deficit. To borrow would increase interest rates because we would be competing with other borrowers. Why would anybody be borrowing at the moment? There is no activity to attract people to borrow and there is no prospect that the position will improve. To borrow overseas is also inflationary, according to honourable members opposite. The sorts of arrangements they enter into probably would be inflationary. One could liken them to a young puppy sitting up and begging for a titbit at any price. 
It is little wonder that they sought to discredit the late and most respected Rex Connor for the proper way in which he approached the subject. It is no wonder they cast slurs and made the most wild innuendo. The concept was sound, businesslike and to Australia's advantage. The modus operandi was simple and it is used in business every day. Firstly, you take stock of your assets and value them; secondly, you find a lender; thirdly, you ensure that borrowings do not exceed the value of the assets; and, fourthly, you agree upon interest rates, repayments, and fix a term for amortisation of the loan. Is that not practical, simple, everyday practice, tinged with just a touch of genius? This Government has made many people dependent upon the unemployment benefit and then insulted them by referring to them as dole bludgers. 
Let me give as an indication of that sort of situation the current position in my own electorate. Young people under 21 years of age constitute more than 55 per cent of the unemployed registered at that office, as against the Victorian figure of 40 per cent, which itself is very high when it is realised that that group constitutes only 12 per cent of the work force. A recent survey conducted at that office indicated that 52 per cent of boys and 54.7 per cent of girls registered had not gone beyond form three level of education, and only 18.9 per cent of boys and 16.4 per cent of girls had passed form four, five or the Higher School Certificate. It is noted that 29.1 per cent of boys and 29 per cent of girls had passed form four. In those couple of sentences lies the tragedy which is now Australia, and this Government is doing nothing about it. I have here a table entitled 'The Employment Situation- General and Local (Northern Area)'. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, concerns his announcement on 17 August that the Special Youth Employment Training Program was to be expanded to include 20 to 24 year-olds. In view of that announcement and the fact that 8,500 teenagers were involved in the program at the end of July, why has the Government allocated only $18m for the program this year? Is the Minister aware that $18m would cover only a monthly average of 5,500, which is 3,000 fewer than the figure for July? Can the Minister inform the House why the Budget allocation is $9m less than is necessary to retain the program at its current level, let alone to expand it to include older age groups? 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I will try to be relevant to the Bill before the House. Indeed, no local government elections will be held in  Victoria  next Saturday. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  talked about the strangulation of Sydney by cars or something. He seemed to think that here was some virtue in everyone owning his own motor car. I sincerely hope that motorcar owners do not choose precisely the same time to take their cars onto the roads. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  who spoke to this Bill seemed to think that it is some sort of a crime, that somehow or other it is immoral or amoral or whatever for governments to raise taxation. The honourable gentleman who has been in this place for a short time- and after reading what was said by Malcolm Mackerras he will be here for less time in the future than he has been in the past- has not yet learned what the art of government is all about. I think the honourable member used the words: 'We want people to keep as much money as possible'. I think he meant to say 'as much of their money as possible'. If we follow that argument through I guess we are right back to the time when we did not have government and were in an anarchical situation in which only those who had strength had power. Even with the intervention of government in this country that proposition is very much true. Those who have money and strength have the power and those who have neither of these things are obliged to do the bidding of those who do. What the honourable member is trying to tell the House is that there is some sort of virtue in this Government saying to people: 'Look we are not going to tax you; we will almost leave you without any taxation at all'. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro also made the point that in the end the user pays. He did not use those words. He said that the taxpayers pay, that governments have not funds. That is true. Everyone knows that. There are no simpletons in Australia. We do not need the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to treat us as if we were a bunch of simpletons. We all know that governments do not own money trees. 
We know that money does not grow in the courtyards of this Parliament House. We all know this because we all are taxpayers, and those who sit in this chamber are fairly heavy taxpayers. The incomes earned by the people who live in my electorate are not as substantial as my own. But they pay taxes and they know who is paying for things. But what they understand more than does the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is that those who earn the most ought to pay the most. They know that, I know that and those honourable members on the other side of the House, if they were quite sincere, if they were to stand in front of their shaving mirror tomorrow and were not ashamed to look themselves in the face, would agree with what I am saying. There is no other way in which to raise revenue. We all know that. 
We all know that no private citizen in Australia will ever build a teaching hospital such as the Royal Melbourne Hospital. We know that doctors will build their private hospitals where they will treat selected patients and the like. We all know that the hospital that will really provide a service to the community will not be built by an individual because it is too expensive to do so. It is too costly and it is not profitable. Under the private enterprise system in which those who sit opposite to our illustrious party believe, only those things that are profitable are owned by individuals, companies and the like. Private enterprise does not own anything that is not profitable. It likes to hive off these undertakings to government to run. But then it says: 'Look, government cannot run these things. It does not run them profitably. Therefore private enterprise must be better than government enterprise because our enterprises are profitable and the Government's enterprises are not'. That is the sort of argument they are trying to put to the people of Australia. Let me get back to this question of States grants. The Minister for Europe or Asia or North Africa or somewhere - 
-Yes, the honourable member for Bennelong. What are we really talking about? I will tell the Minister. The Bill before us tonight says that - 
-If the honourable member for Swan is going to talk about his mentor, I am not interested. The Bill states: 
There is payable to a State specified in Column 1 of the Schedule, during the year ending on 30 June 1978, for the purpose of financial assistance in connexion with expenditure of a capital nature, the amount specified in Column 2 of the Schedule opposite to the name of that State, less the sum of any amounts paid to that State under section 4 of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act (No. 2) 1976. 
Further on it says that the States may spend this  money as they see fit. That is fair enough. That is what the Bill is all about. The total sum involved under this Bill is $477,933,000. My State of Victoria is to receive the sum of $120,071,000. That is to go to the State and is to be used as the State sees fit. 
There is in Victoria at the moment quite a controversy about three areas of land which are being examined by a royal commission. They were purchased with funds which were made available to the Liberal Government in Victoria by the Government in Canberra on the basis that they could be used for whatever purposes the State Government saw fit to use them. I will tell the House the purpose for which that Government saw fit to use them. It thought that the fob pockets of real estate developers was a fit place m which to deposit that money. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  told us that people should be able to decide how they are to spend their money. I might have been persuaded to agree with him, except for the fact that this money was plundered out of this place by a corrupt, inept government in Victoria, a Liberal Government, and then stuffed into the pockets of land developers. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro mentioned a truck driver. I am the truck driver he mentioned, and I am not ashamed of it. I would have been the best truck driver in Victoria. I drove trucks for 20 years and never had a conviction. Perhaps I was the luckiest truck driver in Victoria. I have before me an article which states: 
Land owners in the Geelong region stand to make millions of dollars under legislation introduced by the State Government. 
Under the legislation, the Geelong Regional Commission Bill, the profits from any rezoning of land for development by the commission must be paid to existing land owners. 
Land owners whose land the commission wants to buy would receive profits of several thousand dollars an acre- or several million dollars per 1,000 acres- on top of the existing value of their land. 
That is what is happening to the money that is being sent to the Government of Victoria by the Government in Canberra- money taken from the taxpayers around Australia and then paid out through this grants Bill to the Victorian Government so that it can do that sort of thing with it. That is only the start; it is not the end of it. I have here a quotation from a meeting of the Liberal Party in Victoria-a party of which the Chair has no knowledge, of course,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The quotation reads as follows: 
Many State Council delegates are anxious to know why the Housing Minister in 1973,  Mr Vance  Dickie, recommended that the Government buy land from Adelaidebased Lensworth Finance when, it is claimed, it should have been dealing with someone else. 
Lensworth, which made a $ 1.6m profit in 3 weeks on an option for land at Sunbury, north of Melbourne, on Friday offered to make its files public to show it had nothing to hide. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member said at the beginning of his speech that he was going to stick to the contents of the Bill. I think he is now getting rather wide of it. I do not wish to unnecessarily restrict him in making the points he wishes to make, but I think he should get back to the main substance of the Bill. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, with the greatest respect, I can understand your sensitivities on this matter. 
I beg your pardon? 
-I did not suggest that the Chair was taking sides. I said that I could understand your sensitivities on the matter. 
-Yes, I will withdraw that remark and I shall continue in the vein I am taking,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because we are dealing with Commonwealth funds being made available to State governments. That is the subject matter of the Bill. 
-I am going to give the Premier of Victoria hell. Is that all right? 
-I am sticking within the confines of the Bill because the matters I am mentioning are matters negotiated with some of the funds provided to the Victorian Government, a Liberal government, by the Government in Canberra. 
-I think the honourable member for Diamond Valley interjected and said: 'Not under this Bill'. How can he assure me that that is so? Taking up that point, how can any honourable member in this House assure me that it is so? The funds are made available to the State Government and it can do what it wishes with them. That is acknowledged in the Bill. These are things that have occurred in the past. I am speaking in support of an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. It seems to me to be reasonable that I should raise them tonight and that I should warn the House of the foolishness of continuing to make funds available to State governments without knowing what is going to be done with them. That is aU I am doing. 
-That sounds like Peter McCarthy from Tasmania, or somewhere, who is speaking. I want to read another quotation regarding the land deals in Victoria. It says: 
A new scandal about government land buys is about to break over the already dented image of the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer's  'small 1 ' Liberal Government. 
By comparison with the dogs of this war, who come in various shades but to all intents and purposes are Liberals working within  Mr Hamer's  own State party. 
It has become a truly dirty battle with groups of party members ferreting out whatever dirt they can find - 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
. Analytical Laboratory at Pymble, New South Wales; 
New Complex for the Antarctic Division Headquarters and for the Hobart Regional Laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories, Kingston, Tasmania. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
Before the sitting of the House was suspended we were treated to a dissertation by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  Lord forbid that I should ever be charged before the courts of this land but if I am I would prefer that the honourable gentleman prosecute me than defend me.  His  argument was neither sound nor logical. He quoted the words of  Mr Paul  Johnson, an Englishman frequently quoted by those who oppose the Labor Party because that same man opposes the Labor Party. If we follow that through logically, with  Mr Paul  Johnson being such an authority on the Labor Party and if we need to know anything about the Liberal Party, I suppose we should speak for the honourable member for Hotham,  Mr Chipp,  who holds the same regard for the Liberal Party as  Mr Johnson  holds for the Labor Party. However, I want to read again the subject of the discussion of this matter of public importance which was in the letter written by the honourable member for St George to  Mr Speaker.  The subject is: 
The threat to the democratic process and the Australian economy by the actions of Trade Union leaders, particularly in the building industry. 
-Good Lord, is there another full moon today? The matter that seems to attract the attention of the honourable member for St George is the threat to the democratic process and, by implication, the threat to the Australian economy. In that area he has attacked the wrong people. If he is looking at the threat to the democratic process in Australia he should be looking to the Government he supports. If he is looking to a deterioration in and a threat to the Australian economy, again he should be looking to the Government he supports. It is that Government which has brought inflation to its highest peak for 40 years and has brought unemployment to its highest level since the tune of the Great Depression. This is causing great harm and doing great injury to the democratic processes of our country and to its financial stability. The honourable member also supports a government that has gone out of its way to bring in the most undemocratic industrial legislation in the Western world. The legislation introduced was quite horrific. 
I do wish that members of the Liberal Party would speak in unison, whether they be members of this House or of other parliaments. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  made a speech on 23 June this year to the Japan-Australia Society. In it he spoke about the reduction in industrial disputes in Australia and pointed out that we have had the lowest number of disputes since 1968. 1 will shortly cite some statistics to prove that point. The Minister went on to say that this significant reduction in time lost had been maintained this year. Indeed, he said, the March quarter figures recently released by the Australian Government Statistician showed the lowest loss for any March quarter for five years, and the number of employees involved was the lowest in ten years. Those are not my words; they are the words of the Government's Minister. Later in that speech he said- this is something that honourable members opposite should bear in mind if they really care about people working in industry, which I sincerely doubt- that in Australia the time lost due to industrial accidents per year is generally greater than that due to industrial disputes. But when do government supporters stand in this House and demand legislation to prevent people being sent onto jobs that are not safe? We never hear them making such demands. Rather, we hear the sort of thing that the honourable member for St George was telling us about and which represents his special recipe for resolving disputes. 
Listen to the words of the Premier of Victoria, that discredited Liberal Party Premier,  Mr Hamer.  He said in February this year during a news conference in the United States of Amenca that, to use his own words, reports of strikes and industrial unrest in Australia were exaggerated. I point out again that that statement was made by a prominent member of the Liberal Party, not a member of the Labor Party and not some person who has resigned from the Labor Party and is taking out his spleen on it. 
The honourable member for St George advocates the most violent police action against unions, in common with his attitude towards most things. He said that there should be a procedure for secret ballots on national strikes. I want to take the minds of honourable members back to the air traffic controllers dispute earlier this year. It need never have come about if we had had a Prime Minister who was not being provocative and trying to drive people into a corner by making die comment: "They will not get a cent out of me'. One would think that he was paying their wages out of his own pocket. That dispute caused disruption. All strikes cause disruption. The honourable member for St George strongly supports the view that people have the right to strike. He told us that today. He said that there should be a procedure whereby secret ballots are held on national strikes. The air traffic controllers adopted that procedure, and they are not affiliated with the Australian Labor Party or the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The air traffic controllers organisation held a secret ballot of its members through Australia. 
-They all voted and responded very strongly in favour of taking strike action, so they went on strike. The next point is that you do not have a secret ballot about whether people will go on strike. A corollary is required. A ballot is held to determine whether they will stay on strike or go back to work at the appropriate time. The air traffic controllers did so. The dispute was extended for some three or four days because of mail delays. The procedure took some three or four days longer than it should have taken. In the first ballot they decided to stay on strike. This is not a matter of union bosses breathing down the necks of their members as the honourable member for St George would like the people of Australia to believe. The members themselves decided that action in a secret ballot. That is the sort of action which occurs in every place of work where men decide to withdraw their labour. Honourable members opposite will try to kick that around and try to delude the people but they know in their own minds that what I say is true. 
The honourable member for St George also referred to anti-blackmail legislation. I am blessed if I know what he meant by that remark. He did not explain it to us very well. What he means by anti-blackmail legislation, I guess, is some sort of legislation designed to prevent negotiation and conciliation of disputes. If the employer gives the men what they want, in the mind of the honourable member for St George the men are blackmailing the employer. I would invite the honourable member to read the Preamble to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The Preamble to that Act makes it quite clear that the Act exists to prevent and resolve disputes, not to start them. Yet every piece of industrial legislation that this Government has introduced has been designed to provoke and start disputes. Never has the Government introduced legislation designed to resolve them. 
I missed the third point that was made by the honourable member. I apologise for that, but my mind had drifted off by then because the speech was so uninteresting. The honourable member said that one day a year should be set aside for elections, but again he did not explain how this would be done. How do we pick up a shearer in some shed in the outback of Australia- or does he not have the right to vote? Was the honourable member talking about only people who work in the cities? Does he realise that trade unions are national and have members working in every part of the country? Obviously honourable members opposite have overlooked those points in putting forward this pie-eyed proposition which is impracticable and unworkable. 
The honourable member claimed that unemployment was caused by strikes. Before I deal with unemployment let me mention a few statistics relating to the number of working days lost in the first five months of each year from 1968 to 1977. Since this Government came to office there has been a reduction in working days lost. 
-Of course it is good. It is the sort of thing for which everybody aims. But that does not please the Government. The number of working days lost has gone from 1,243,600 in 1965 to 559,800 in 1977. There has been a continued reduction in respect of those five months. So, to say that the trade unions are irresponsible and are being forced out on strike, obviously is quite incorrect.  (Quorum formed).  I have illustrated to the nation that the trade unions are not irresponsible in terms of working days lost through unnecessary industrial stoppages. 
Honourable members opposite would agree that housing is part of the construction industry. Rather than talk about unemployment being increased because of the actions of trade unions in the construction industry, they simply should turn to the Budget introduced in the Parliament this year. In it they will find that in real money terms the money allocated to the States for housing assistance- that is, for low cost or welfare housing for people on low incomes- this year has been reduced by $22.5m. In other words, the Government would need to add $22.5m to the amount it has allocated just to equal the allocation that was made last year. Of course, that must mean a reduction in the number of those houses built. What a cardinal sin that is. There are 6,000 people on the waiting list of the Housing Commission of Victoria anxiously waiting for welfare housing, and this Government has cut back funds to that extent. Even more important - 
-And then it blames the unions, as my colleague has said. Those houses are not being built. What happens then? A round-up of statistics shows that there has been a decline in the production of clay bricks, of portland cement and of all the other things that go into the construction of houses. Newspapers circulated in the Gippsland electorate tell us that the Drouin sawmill is to close down. It manufactures timber housing frames for Melbourne. So, who is doing injury to the construction industry in Australia? It is not the Australian Labor Party but the Government, by not providing funds for the industry and by making specious remarks. Has the Government not seen the latest unemployment figures? Has it not seen the dramatic climb in the number of people employed in Australia? Does it not know that there are carpenters, bricklayers and concrete layers among those unemployed? Is it doing anything to get those men back to work? Of course it is not. 
Yet its supporters come in here with this trumped up matter of public importance that was only ever an exercise in union bashing anyway. The honourable member for St George, bloody-minded as he is, knows that that is so. That is what it is all about. The Government wants to distract the minds of the Australian people from the ailing economy and the skyrocketing unemployment rate. It knows that they are the matters which concern the people and it is determined to deflect their thinking away from those matters. However, the Opposition will not be deflected. On every possible occasion we will let the people know how the Government has mismanaged the economy, how it has escalated unemployment and how it uses all sorts of cooked books to try to show that the inflation rate is not escalating. There are a number of other instances I could bring forward, but I notice that the clock is marching on. There are other areas where this disruptive and destructive Government - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-Again we have been treated to an episode of union bashing- the second for today. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  is well known for his attitude towards the trade unions of Australia and even more so for his attitude towards the Communist Party of Australia. I point out to him and to the people of Australia that the Communist Party is not a prescribed organisation in Australia. It is an organisation which exists within the community. In the 1950s the people of Australia decided that that would be so. It is very easy to apply the logic of people like the honourable member, which is that if a person is not critical of an organisation or, in respect of it, is not anti-organisation he must of necessity be pro-organisation. There is nothing crazier than that sort of assumption. 
The honourable member told us nothing that we did not know. He made the allegation and the accusation that the trade unions of Australia were responsible for the problems this country faces. He referred to the 'ordinary decent people of Australia'. Is he saying to this House and through this House to the nation that people who belong to trade unions are not ordinary decent people? He is nodding his head in assent; so he must agree with that. He agrees that, somehow or other, trade unionists are different from the rest of the community. I remind the honourable member that most of the people who receive their incomes in the form of wages and salaries in Australia belong to a trade union of one sort or another. It is a recognised fact that people will come together in a spirit of amalgamation in order to achieve their common goals. 
The point is that the honourable member cannot understand that. He just cannot understand that the people of Australia have enshrined in legislation the right to come together to put their collective point of view on a particular issue. Trade unions in fact are defined simply as being collections of people with a common goal. If the honourable member is critical of people for belonging to trade unions, let me remind him that he is in concert with other people in this chamber who come together with a collective point of view and who in fact put that point of view. How can the honourable member then deem himself to be in a different position from that of any trade unionist in Australia? Yet he would like to pretend that his position is somewhat different. 
If the honourable member wants to talk to me about the right of members of the Liberal Party to do the things that they want to do, let me remind him of what happened to two Liberal 
Party members in Victoria. Only yesterday two Liberal members of the Victorian Parliament thought that they had the right to do what they wanted to do. They neglected to go into the parliamentary chamber to vote on a motion of no confidence in the Premier. Where do they stand today? They stand outside of the Parliamentary Liberal Party. They stand outside of the party room. They found out, as the honourable member for Wilmot would find out if he endeavoured to try it himself, that members of the Liberal Party- the party that holds itself out as the party that gives its members the right to make their own decisions- are put outside of the party room. That is what he will find happening to him if he cannot countenance the views of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
Why then does the honourable member pursue the point of view that there is something evil about trade unions? I will tell the House why the honourable member pursues that point of view. He does so because he is not sure of his own position. He is unsure that the institution that he supports, or professes to support,, most stronglythat is, the Parliament- is the best body to manage the affairs of the country; or, alternatively, he takes the authoritarian point of view that only the Parliament has the right to put a point of view in the community. He would deny aU others, all organisations, the right to put their point of view. He would say that only the Parliament, only the Government, is correct in its decisions. He would say that no other point of view in the community can be correct. He is prepared to put down organised labour in the community, the trade unions in the community which have leaders who are democratically elected, irrespective of their political views. I believe that, given the opportunity, the honourable member probably would use every force available to him to prevent those people from expressing their point of view. I have stood, I do stand, and I always will stand in this chamber to support the rights of organisations to put their point of view - 
BAILLIEU (La Trobe) ( 10.43 )-When the Parliament rises tonight it will be going into recess for one week, following a sitting of three weeks. It has been a rather hectic three weeks, particularly in view of one or two of the events that have occurred during this last week. I thought that before the Parliament went into recess it might be appropriate if I made some conciliatory remarks so that we will go into recess with a feeling of amicability which I know will be reflected by the honourable member for 
Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who, by his interjections, is obviously supporting that concept. 
So I thought that, on behalf of the Government, I would make one or two charitable remarks about our colleagues opposite. I would like to thank particularly those honourable gentlemen who were responsible for raising as a matter of public importance yesterday the subject of donations to political parties, because it gave honourable members on the Government side of the House- I speak now particularly of members of the Liberal Party- the opportunity to make the point that we members of this party who are in the Parliament are constrained by a certain fund raising code which prevents us from going out and actively soliciting donations for our political party. Indeed, it prevents us from receiving directly money for our political party. 
When the Opposition in this Parliament saw fit yesterday to make that into an issue, I am afraid that we could not restrain ourselves from referring to a 42-page document which was tabled in the Senate during 1976. That is one of the most revealing documents ever to be brought into the Australian Parliament. It is an indictment of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in that it reveals as clearly as is possible his approach to how money should be raised for the Australian Labor Party. It is significant that the approach that he has adopted apparently has been endorsed by his party colleagues. It is endorsed to such an extent that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  raised it yesterday in this Parliament as a matter of public importance. That document, which was tabled in the Senate and which is available for aU honourable members to read, tells how the Leader of the Opposition raised with emissaries from Iraq the need for $2m to be - 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 13 September 1977: 
1 ) Is it intended to move the Head Office of his Department from Hawthorn, Victoria, to Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. If so, when is it anticipated the move will take place. 
Has the opinion of the staff been sought on any proposed move. 
What is the estimated cost of moving and relocating those staff who elect to come to Canberra. 
Where will the Department be located in Canberra. 
-Any time that parliamentarians need to speak about the Parliament there seems to be a degree of hesitancy on their part to raise the matters that are wrong with it. I do not mean so much the things that are wrong with the proceedings in the chamber as the things that are wrong with the building itself. This building is now more than 50 years old. It has weathered well. In the first instance it was not intended to be a building of substance or one which would last into future centuries. It was built as a provisional parliament house. That attitude was adopted by the Parliament of the day. It was rejected and argued against by Walter Burley Griffin who, in 1922, told the Public Works Committee which was investigating the construction of this building that there were sufficient building materials in Canberra for the nucleus of a permanent parliament house to be commenced and that it should be constructed on the hill or the slight rise behind the building that now stands. However, the Parliament of that time had its way. In 1977 and, by any estimate, for the next decade we will be occupying this building that has long since passed its useful function so far as private members are concerned and, I suspect, so far as the Executive is concerned. I know for sure that for the executive of the Opposition there is virtually no accommodation in this building. 
Quite recently a decision was made by the High Court on the size of electorates. At a referendum in the 1960s the people of Australia voted solidly against the breaking of the nexus between the size of the House of Representatives and the size of the Senate. Unless another referendum is put to the people, it seems that the Parliament is in two binds: Firstly, it can remain the same size, with 124 members of the House of Representatives and 64 senators. On that basis, only one conclusion can be drawn, and that is that the numbers of electors in electorates will get larger. Whilst there are 69,000 electors per electorate throughout Australia now, it is conceivable that if the population were to grow to any vast extent the number of electors per electorate would increase to 100,000 or more. The alternative is that the nexus be broken and that 24 more senators be commissioned. If I interpret you correctly,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you rather agree that it would be political suicide for any government to suggest that the number of senators be increased by almost 50 per cent; but that would bring about a commensurate increase in the number of members of the House of Representatives. 
Whichever way things go, the accommodation in this place will get progressively worse. If the first proposition, by which members are expected to represent more than 100,000 electors in their electorate, is accepted, it is quite clear that it would be beyond the capacity of one member to serve those people. If it is beyond the capacity of one member with two people working for him in his office in the electorate, it would become obvious even to those who have the most bitter hatred of parliamentarians that there would be a need for assistance in Parliament House in Canberra. If that proposition were accepted, there would be nowhere in this building that such people could be accommodated. If the second proposition is accepted and the size of the Senate is increased, with a commensurate increase in the size of the House of Representatives, the same problem would pertain. There would not be sufficient accommodation in this building for those who were required, indeed charged, by the people of Australia to be here. That is the position from the point of view of members. 
Let us go even further than that. Any of us who have been through the section of the building occupied by the Press would worry. The whole area is dilapidated. I understand that there have been a couple of false alarms lately at which the fire brigade turned out. When I turned the corner in the car one morning and the fire brigade was here my heart stood still, because I live in tenor of any conflagration starting in this building. If it did it would be uncontrollable. The loss of life, with such a large number of people working in this building, I believe would be appalling. This building is supposed to be the prestige building of the parliaments of Australia. The whole building is decrepit. It has been added to. It is out of shape. It does not serve the purpose which was first envisaged for it. 
The very people who write down Parliament are the parliamentarians. As you know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  there is a committee looking at the proposition of constructing a new and permanent parliament house. I do not think it is any secret that the committee would be looking at a project that would cost about $ 100m spread over 10 years. Again I see people going white at the thought of going to the electorate and saying to the people: 'This sort of accommodation is required'. But I believe that parliamentarians have, in the first instance, to convince themselves that this is what is warranted and justified and, in the second instance, to have the courage to proceed from that point and to sell to the community the proposition that those people whom the community expects to manage the affairs of this country should be able to do so in accommodation that is of no greater or lesser standard than the accommodation that is used by other people who are engaged in very large enterprises. 
One could enter into a dissertation about the management of the affairs of this country and I believe it would be quite legitimate to do so while we are discussing the estimates relating to the Parliament. To elaborate on that point, as we know, the parliamentary structure in this country embraces the Executive, which comprises the Prime Minister and his Cabinet. We know that these people are directly responsible for putting propositions to this Parliament. I interpolate that in recent times they have not put up too many of these propositions, but that is their responsibility. There are people who are Government supporters, who sit behind the Executive and support it on these issues. 
On the other side of the House there is the Opposition, clearly identified by the Leader and the Deputy Leader. It has become the practice over the years for other people to sit with the Leader and the Deputy Leader and they in turn are a counter to the Government Executive, they constitute the Opposition executive. Then, of course, there are private members of the Oppositionsupporters of the Opposition who sit behind the Leader and the Deputy Leader. All sorts of facilities are available to the Government Executive if I may use that term to indicate the Prime Minister and his Cabinet- as there should be. I make no criticism of that. Surely this whole parliamentary system is based on having a government and an opposition. That being the case, surely the opposition must have access to facilities if not equal to at least somewhere near the facilities that are available to the Government Executive to enable the Opposition to perform the task the community expects it to perform. Our friends in the Press are never loath to state that the Opposition is not, to use the vernacular, getting stuck into the Government as much as it should. A lot of these things depend upon the facilities and backup that are available. There is no doubt that with the volatility of the Australian electorate nothing is going to remain permanent for any great length of time. 
At the moment the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is playing some sort of parlour game. He is enjoying himself. He has the business community upset. Frankly, we are deriving some glee from the fact that he might call an election at any time. If that is the case he is going to find himself back on the Opposition benches. He will not be sitting on the front bench; he will be way up the back. But I point out to the Committee that there is a need to make accommodation within this building more civilised than it is at present, not only for the members of Parliament but also for the members of the Press and the Library, and all the other people who inhabit this building. There is a need for consideration to be given to facilities for Opposition executive members. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 13 September 1977: 
What work has been carried out to date on the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong, Vic 
What funds were allocated to the project for 1977-78. 
When is the anticipated completion date. 
If the completion date is more than one year away, how much work is intended to be done during 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) Do servicemen and service women of equal rank receive equal pay. 
If not, what percentage of the male rate is received by female (a) privates, (b) corporals, (c) sergeants, and (d) commissioned officers. 
Is the pay of service personnel determined by rank or by task performed. 
-I am in a dilemma,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I am not sure whether it is I or the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who has been misrepresented. On page 1697 of today's  Hansard  Question No. 1427 on the national animal health laboratory at Geelong is shown as having been asked by  Mr Les  Johnson. It was in fact asked by me. Question No. 1506 on equal pay for Service men and women appearing on page 1700 again is credited as having been asked by  Mr Les  Johnson. It was asked by me. I trust that  Hansard  will now correct its records. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 13 September 1977: 
How many officers in each classification were employed at the Head Office of his Department in each of the years from 1969 to 1977. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security tell the House whether the Minister for Social Security has directed the Director of the Department of Social Security in Victoria not to make special benefit or unemployment benefit payments to people who have been refused work by employers because of electricity restrictions? If so, is this a departure from past practice? In what way are these people ineligible under the Social Services Act? 
I wish to follow up the point raised by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  when he spoke. The three departments with which we are dealing- the Department of Health, the Department of Social Security and the Department of Veterans' Affairs- make up quite a significant portion of the Budget allocation. In fact, the Department of Social Security alone accounts for $256m of the Budget allocation this year. It seems to me that the amounts of money appropriated to those three important departments certainly warrant greater scrutiny and investigation than can be accomplished under the Government's restriction of allowing only six honourable members from each side of the chamber to speak on these matters. 
Putting that aside, I wish to raise one matter in particular, and that concerns quarantine in Australia as it relates to animals, plants and humans. Quarantine is something which has concerned me and people who are more knowledgeable in that area than I. We in Australia have been very proud, and rightly so, of the way in which Australia has been disease free, in terms of both its human population and its animal population. However, there are things which are occurring regularly and which are cause for concern for the average citizen. Since the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who is sitting at the table at the present time is also responsible for quarantine matters, I trust that the matters I raise will become of concern to him also. 
I mention animal quarantine in this country first of all. Earlier today we had some discussion on the Lands Acquisition Amendment Bill which is concerned with the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The debate on that Bill somehow or other gravitated around the off-shore high security animal quarantine station. That has been a matter of some concern for almost four years now. I would have thought that the National Country Party members in the Government and the graziers who sit in the Cabinet would have shown greater concern about this matter than they have done. Quite recently it became apparent from speaking to beef producers during a meeting in Rockhampton of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works- the Committee was there to investigate the establishment of a beef research station for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisationthat there is a need to introduce new strains of cattle into Australia in order to build up the herds so that the beef producers could then take onto their land an animal which would be far more efficient in the production of beef. I do not want to get into an argument about the sale of beef, but it is clear that there is a need for new genetic stock. The scientists have said it; everybody has said it. 
However, we cannot do that until we have a high security animal quarantine station which must be situated at least 400 miles off-shore. I notice that moves are afoot in that regard, but it will still be some time before that quarantine station is established. I refer also to the national animal health laboratory in Geelong which is to produce animal vaccines. The estimates for the Department of Construction show that no work is going to be done on that project this year. The Minister conceded that point when answering a question asked by me. that also is part and parcel of this whole problem. That animal health laboratory is to do research into animal diseases in Australia and to produce animal vaccines. Only quite recently there was an outbreak of Newcastles disease amongst poultry in Australia. That outbreak had a detrimental effect on the poultry industry and was apparently traced to the smuggling of some birds from overseas which carried the disease and infected our flocks. 
-I agree, shame on them. The point is that we cannot stop people from trying things; we can stop them only at the point of entry. Obviously some person smuggled in a bird which was rotten with the disease, and it got loose and infected our flocks, according to the allegation. Where does the fault lie in that case? As I say- the Minister concedes this- we cannot stop people from trying but we can stop them at the point of entry if the job is done properly and we have proper quarantine procedures. We have got to take notice of the fact that people move very rapidly from one country to another. We have to acknowledge that people are not spending at sea the six months incubation period required in respect of viruses. We have to acknowledge that within hours people can travel from one country which is endemic to disease into Australia and can bring with them live viruses. If the Minister wants to know how that can be done I shall explain it to him privately. The situation is that work on the animal health laboratory is not proceeding. No funds have been allocated to it this year. I think something like a miserable $ 1 5,000- 
-No, this is in the estimates of the Department of Construction. The Minister has conceded in an answer to a question that no work has been done on that project this year. The research into animal diseases and the preparation of vaccines is important. These are matters that come within the Minister's portfolio. Because of the importance to the export markets of clean livestock in Australia I think that greater work should be done in this area. 
Let me turn to the quarantine of people. We find from reading the daily Press that 40 ships are sailing from South East Asia or from IndoChina or from somewhere to Australia; ten of them have already arrived. We read stories of people leaving those ships. One group of people was found by a fellow driving a grader; another lot was seen by a policeman scaling a cliff. It raises a doubt in people's minds. I am hopeful that when the Minister replies he can dispel this doubt as to whether these people are properly examined; whether they are sent home again if they are found to have diseases. I have a large migrant population in my electorate, and I have difficulties trying to explain to people, who want to bring out relatives who, for some reason or other, are not allowed to come, why these people without any examination, prior knowledge or anything else are allowed to sail their ships across the sea and land in Australia without the usual health precautions. I do not mind making that sort of explanation to them if I know the answer. It seems to me that the people of Australia are entitled to an answer. They are rightly proud of our history of being disease free in this area. They do not want to find these sorts of things are occurring. 
There is a story, whether it is true or not, of a ship in the port of Sydney being given a health clearance by the New South Wales Director of Health. The ship left Sydney, went to Melbourne and was found to be in a sub-standard condition when examined by the people in Melbourne. As I understand the situation, they outlawed the ship because of various things. These stories are around. People are entitled to answers to them. I am forced to leave aside the quarantine area because I have only 10 minutes in which to make my points, and that is not very long. 
I move to one of the other areas that we are debating- Veterans' Affairs. I do not know how miserable this Government can get. It has done some very mean and miserable things during the time that it has been in office. Its penny-pinching, austere way of going about things is indicative of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  except when the matters affect his own comfort and welfare. One of the most miserable things that this or any government did was to stop making payments to ex-servicemen who contract tuberculosis. As I understand it, there are only 7,500 of these people throughout Australia. In the past it has been understood that an ex-serviceman who contracted TB would be paid a pension. Now he must prove that it is war-related. How the devil can a man who at 18, 19 or 20 years of age, went off to war full of patriotic fervour, and in his later years contracts tuberculosis prove that his tuberculosis is war-related? It would seem to me a most reasonable thing to allow the previous system to continue. Not this miserable Government. It promptly knocked off that one. It is saving itself a few dollars by not paying that pension to servicemen. 
Another benefit which this Government has knocked off is the sustenance payment to exservicemen. That was paid in the past. Now they must show a genuine loss of income. The Government just does not understand what is happening in industry generally. People who work in industry are entitled to sick leave. It is one of the award provisions that are given to them. The Government is saying that if somebody suffers an illness and needs hospitalisation because of a war-caused injury and cannot show loss of income, they must use up their sick pay. If a man uses up all of his sick pay- he does not get his sustenance payment- comes out of hospital, falls down the back steps at home and breaks his leg, he has no sick pay entitlements. That is a completely dishonest attitude, and it is pennypinching. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 September 1977. 
1 ) Were Australian Government Savings Bonds, Series 8, offered to the public bearing 10 per cent interest. 
When the issue was made, did he explain that the reason for the issue and the 10 per cent interest rate was to mop up surplus liquidity. 
Is he able to say whether permanent building societies offer 9 per cent interest for deposits of $1,000 to $4,000;  9  per cent for $4,000 to $7,000 and 10 per cent for deposits in excess of $7,000. 
Are savings invested in Series 8 Bonds eligible for the home savings grant; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
Are there Australian Service personnel in (a) Northern Ireland and (b) Great Britain. 
If so, what duties are they performing and, if personnel are located in Great Britain, are they releasing British soldiers for service in Ireland. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
1 ) Do contracts let for construction of buildings or works in an Australian Territory for the Australian Government have a clause which requires contractors to pay appropriate Australian rates of pay for work performed. 
If not, will he correct this anomaly. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that  Mr Dixon,  the Victorian Minister for Social Welfare, has called on the Federal Government to pay unemployment benefits to men and women who have been stood down because of the power dispute and stated that any decision to abolish these payments would cost the Victorian Government $7.6m a week. Is it also a fact that the Myers inquiry recommended that the Director-General of Social Security should be relieved of the responsibility for interpreting section 107 (c) ( 1) of the Social Services Act and that his discretion in classifying the terms 'direct participant' and 'strike' should be limited, not extended? Can he assure the House that the Government will heed  Mr Dixon's  plea or has he once again put his policy of 'salvation through stagnation' ahead of the welfare of the unemployed? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I do not think that there could have been a dry eye in the House by the time the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  finished his speech. I listened intently to his address and I began to be a bit disappointed. I thought that he was not going to take a sideswipe at the trade unions during the course of his address, but he did not disappoint me. In the dying moments of his speech he did not neglect to make mention of guerrilla tactics and he also told us that there has not been any training of apprentices. Indeed he had a table incorporated in  Hansard  to show that. If there is to be any injury done to the building and construction industry in this country the honourable member should be looking not at the trade unions but at the present Government because the Bill that is before us now provides $390m to the States for housing. If the honourable member were sincere and genuinely concerned about the housing industry in the States and about apprenticeship training that goes with it, he ought to be honest enough to admit that this year the Government that he supports has not provided as much money as it should have provided. 
If he were sincere about this matter he would have told the House and would not have left it to me to tell the House that the Government should have provided another $22. 5m this year, which would have just provided the same amount of money as last year, on corrected figures, for housing. Therefore the Government that he supports has provided less money this year for welfare housing that it provided last year. Last year it actually spent $375m. Irrespective of what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  cares to tell us in his economic jargon, the inflation rate over that year has been more than 10 per cent. So by adding another $37.5m to that figure we get a total of $4 12.5m. That is the amount that should have been provided, not the $390m that is being provided. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs referred to Queensland as being a great State in regard to housing but he should read some of the statistics that are provided by an interested body in this field, the Housing Industry Association. Certainly this money is being made available to the States so that they can provide housing. I think it will be interesting to go through the statistics State by State and see what is actually happening in each State. For example, in New South Wales where there is an Australian Labor Party Government, the number of houses approved for government ownership for the year ended June 1977 increased by 145 per cent over the previous year. Let us have a look at what happened in the previous year when there was not a Labor government in that State. The number of government owned dwellings completed in the year ended June 1977, which must have been started in the year before, decreased by 56.2 per cent. So one can see what happens when there is a change from a negative Liberal government to a progressive Labor government. One goes from a decrease of 56.2 per cent in completions under a Liberal government to an increase of 145 per cent in approvals under a Labor government. 
There is a Liberal Government in Victoria, and what do we find there? We find a decline in approvals for government ownership by 22.9 per cent over the previous year. In the same year completions of government owned houses declined by 20.7 per cent. In a State such as Victoria with a Liberal Government and with no impediment we find a decline in completions and approvals of houses for government ownership. Queensland is a very interesting case. The honourable member for Darling Downs should listen carefully to this. Last year completions of government owned houses decreased by 29 per cent, but this year there happens to be an election in Queensland and what does that wily Premier of Queensland, the crookedest crook of all the Premiers of Australia, do? He promptly ensured that there would be an increase of 82.6 per cent this year. 
-No, sir. 
-I said that the Premier of Queensland was the crookedest crook of all the Premiers of Australia. 
-This is using up my time. I have made my point, and I withdraw. In the Labor controlled State of South Australia there has been an increase in approvals of 16.5 per cent and an increase in completions of 3.9 per cent. The honourable member for Darling Downs vaunts the. way in which the Premier of Queensland cares to go about his business but few people in New South Wales would agree with him. Apart from the fact that this Bill does not make sufficient funds available for welfare housing in any of the States, it does not make funds available that are comparable with those of last year. Let me quote some of the comments made by the Housing Industry Association concerning the situation of the building industry in New South Wales. It says: 
Builders are still operating below capacity. 
If the Government is quite sincere about the unemployment situation m Australia, a matter that does not seem to be giving it great concern, it seems to me that the giving of greater impetus to the housing industry would have such a multiplier effect that a great deal of this problem would be corrected. But again the Government is giving less money this year to the States for housing than it gave in previous years. On the question of labour this august body says: 
All trades are readily available. 
We all know that. With the 400,000-odd people out of work, of course all trades are readily available. It says: 
The lack of work has caused a decline in apprentice demand and this is likely to continue. 1978 will see very few builders prepared to train apprentices because of the cost. There are any amount of boys looking for apprenticeship in the industry, but most will not be successful. 
What an indictment that is of the Government of this country. When the Government has the opportunity to pump money into the housing industry to get the housing industry back on its feet, we find that sort of comment being made- not by some communist shop steward - 
-If the Minister has sensitive hearing that is not my problem. The Government has the opportunity to do that and the Housing Industry Association has taken the opportunity to tell the Minister- he has read these comments- how he can get apprentices back into the industry and how he can get tradesmen back to work. What does the Minister for Housing do? He recommends to his Prime Minister, the greatest penny pincher of all time, that the actual money to be made available for housing in Australia should be cut this year. The Minister pretends to have some sort of a hearing defect. He has more than a hearing defect. On the question of housing prospects the Housing Industry Association says: 
The market looks like remaining very much as it is now for the next three months. The inability of many people to afford a housing loan will mean a continued low level of activity. 
That is axiomatic. The way to overcome this problem is to go into it and look at it, but the 
Government is playing with it. The Association says: 
There is a desperate demand from lower income earners to own a home, as rental prices are increasing sharply. 
Those are wise words, words that we all know to be true. What does the Minister do again? He reduces by $22.5m this year the amount of money that should be made available for welfare housing. That is in the State of New South Wales. I have already mentioned that in Victoria, government approvals for welfare housing declined by 22.9 per cent. Does the Minister know- I very much doubt whether he does- that there are 6,000 people on the waiting list of the Housing Commission of Victoria? How much money is the Federal Government to give to Victoria this year? In the first instance it is giving Victoria $101,759,000 and allocating another $50,000 for the next six months. 
-It is $101,759,000. Have I got it right this time? 
-The Minister can smile because half of the money that has been paid to Victoria under this legislation in the past has been misappropriated by the inept, incompetent Victorian Government and put into the pockets of shonky real estate agents. It has gone in shonky real estate deals in Victoria where the Housing Commission of Victoria has bought land and paid outrageous prices for it, all at the expense of houses. 
I again point out that the figures accurately show that government approvals up until June 1977 declined by 22.9 per cent. They would not have declined if the Government of Victoria had built houses on the land instead of lining the pockets of real estate speculators. The completion of government owned houses was 20.7 per cent lower and the completion of other dwellings was 59.1 per cent higher in the year ended June 1 977 than in the previous year. 
The Minister does not like to hear these figures. But the figure of 20.7 per cent in 1977 would not have applied if there had been an honest government in Victoria, if there had not been a crooked Liberal government that set about lining the pockets of real estate developers. The Housing Industry Association stated: 
Many builders have retrenched staff to reduce overheads. 
Is that not great? There are 6,000 people wanting houses. Six thousand people are on the Housing Commission list. But builders have to retrench staff to reduce overheads. 
Why cannot this Government provide money to Victoria? Why cannot it speak to its Liberal counterparts down there to make sure the money is used for housing and not just to prop up shonky real estate companies? The Association also states: 
The timber industry, in particular, has dismissed numbers of employees and some mills are expected to close down. 
That has happened in the federal division of McMillan. Mills are closing down all around the timber areas of Victoria. Of course, the people who live in these small towns that rely on timber milling are suffering great hardship. The Association also stated: 
Brick manufacturers have large stocks. 
There is no shortage of building materials, no shortage of labour and no shortage of skill. Yet the Government cannot provide the money to make sure that the people who need the houses get them. 
This is interesting- the Association states: 
Reactions to the recent Federal Budget have been quite negative . . . 
They are not my words but the words of the Housing Industry Association. I repeat what the Association said: 
Reactions to the recent Federal Budget have been quite negative- as far as the housing industry is concerned it was a 'non-event'. 
The Minister might like to speak to the lowly positioned Deputy Government Whip who is trying to interject but that is what was said by the Housing Industry Association. The Association also said: 
A reduction in interest rates is a key issue for the future. Even a relatively small decline would at least be a selling point. 
These are the sorts of questions that have to be faced up to by this Government. Even to maintain the relativity of funds available this year compared with last year would require, I repeat, another $22.5m. 
What is the Government trying to do? Honourable members have spoken against people renting houses. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  if I remember correctly, made the point that everyone in Australia wanted to live on his own little one-fifth acre and have his own little house. There is no evidence to suggest that is the case. The real position is that people are not given a choice. They either buy a house or they live with relatives. I have already made the point that the cost of rentals is forcing people into buying houses. Accommodation that is built for rental in 
Victoria takes the form of either 20 storey concrete buildings or houses in some obscure country town where there is no need for housing. But under the arrangement a percentage of housing must be built for rental. But is this housing built in areas in which people live and in which they want to rent houses? The answer to that question quite simply is, no. 
Is the attitude of the Minister to continue to be that of his supporters and colleagues in this House who believe that people want to live on one-fifth of an acre of land in their own little house and thereby, of course, make the provision of services that much more expensive, or is his attitude more one towards medium density housing? The Minister is not going to answer that question. In fact he is not going to say a word about it because it is a lot easier to duck responsibility. It is a lot easier to be a Minister in this place under the so-called new federalism and to pass money to the States and then to say: 'But the States have the responsibility of doing this '. . 
I have already drawn the attention of the House to the crooks in Victoria, the crooked Liberal Party in Victoria. This contention can be clearly supported by so much evidence. I mention, for example, the purchase of a briquette depot in Altona. It was intended that houses would be built on this area. But nothing could be done with it. One would have to sink piers 56 feet before one struck bottom. Money has been given to the crooked Liberal Government in Victoria to buy that land. How does the Federal Government know what the Liberal Government of Victoria will do with this money? How does the Federal Government know that the State Government will not go out and buy another quarry on which to build houses? 
The Minister holds up a piece of paper that mentions something about defence homes at Craigieburn. The Minister has his people mixed up. I was not the Minister for Housing in the last Labor Government. Craigieburn happens to be in my electorate at the moment. 
-I do not know where the money went. But the Minister can raise that question. He can do so easily. I would like - 
-I agree with you 100 per cent,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I am one of those sensitive people who responds to provocation. I have never been used to this before I came to this place. I do not want to be put in the position of having to tolerate the jackasses on my geographical left who are provoking me. 
-I am. 
-Thank you. I am gratified by your confidence in my ability, and I am sure that it is reciprocated. The Minister has drawn to my attention a piece of paper that mentions something about Craigieburn. If that is his problem, I guess he will say something about it when he responds to this debate. But rather than side-tracking the whole issue I want him to tell me before he responds how he is going to stop these crooks in Victoria, these Liberal crooks in Victoria, from running away with the money we are pumping into that State for housing? The Minister can shake his head, but as I have already indicated there has been a decline in government approvals up to June 1977 of 22.9 per cent. There has been a decrease in buildings completed of 20.7 per cent, all in the area of government housing. The Minister can also tell us why the Victorian Government bought land in flood prone areas, in old brick dumps and in other places with good hard earned cash? He can tell us how the Victorian Government managed to pay three times as much for the land 20 days after it was first bought. He can also tell us why there has been a real reduction of $22.5m in the amount of money made available to Victoria this year for welfare housing. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
Will Australian workmen be engaged to construct the high security offshore animal quarantine station on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
If not, where will labour be recruited and at what rate of pay. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
Has a decision been made to dispose of (a) the military camp and (b) the land previously occupied by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories at Camp Road, Broadmeadows, Victoria. 
If so, is it intended to dispose of these sites as one lot or will they be subdivided. 
Will they be offered to the local council; if so, will generous terms be made available. 
If it is not intended to dispose of the sites, are there any plans for the future use of the land. 
It seems to me that the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  ought to get together and talk about this Bill because it is pretty obvious that neither of them has read it. The honourable member for Diamond Valley offered some criticism about the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  not speaking to the Bill but then spent the next 20 minutes promptly moving away from it himself. He made the comment that the conciliation and arbitration system was fair to both sides. I am wondering how fair to both sides it really is. It seems we have a government that is hell bent on bringing in penalties against workers. Quite recently, my colleague in the Senate,  Senator Mulvihill,  elicited information concerning James Richardson Pty Ltd which operates duty free stores in Sydney and Melbourne. It was found after investigations by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations that there had been a shortfall of wages in the company's branch in Sydney. Employees had not been paid as much as they were legally entitled to. When the amount involved was added up it was found to be $40,000. That is a considerable sum of money. As I understand it, all that was required of the Richardson company was that it pay the workers the money to which they were entitled. Surely if somebody went into somebody else's premises and removed $40,000 the law would extract some penalty other than just requiring the offender to return the $40,000. The employees of the Richardson company were robbed by that company of a total sum of $40,000, yet the penalty imposed on that company was that it simply had to pay back the $40,000 to the people whom they had short-changed. That could hardly be considered to be fair to both sides. Yet this Government, since it assumed office in December 1975 has introduced Draconian legislation such as this and has imposed all sorts of horrendous penalties upon the working people, the people who are employees, the people who are least able individually to defend their position in the community. That is the very reason why we have unions. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  spoke about disputes. He said that a number of disputes were caused through demarcation issues. That is true. We know that, but they are also caused because of the multitude of unions that we have. The honourable member for Hindmarsh, because of his past actions, is one of the finest Ministers for Labour, in fact the finest Minister for Labour, this country has ever had. He had real understanding and feeling for his job. He made an endeavour to make it easier for unions to amalgamate. While the honourable member for Hindmarsh was speaking a member of the National Country Party- I believe it was the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)-  said: 'Well, why did you not do something about it?' The honourable member for Hindmarsh did try to do something about the situation but the passage of the legislation was frustrated in the other place by colleagues of the honourable member for Maranoa. This is the sort of humbug we have to put up with all the time. 
The honourable member for Swan kept talking about the decent unions in the community. Is it the honourable member for Swan, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is to decide who are the decent unions in the community? Who is to make that sort of decision? Who is to place himself on a pedestal to make that sort of decision? Is that person another Lee Kuan Yew? Will we come to a situation where only those unions that please the Government will be permitted to continue in existence? Is that what the Government parties want? I am quite sure that it is. 
The honourable member for Swan, who seems to be quite a student of Adam Smith- and that does not surprise me- referred to Adam Smith and his writings. It has just occurred to me that in this country when a number of working people sit down and meet we say that that is a union. But Adam Smith said: 
When two or three businessmen meet together, you can be sure that they are engaged in a conspiracy to raise prices. 
The honourable member for Swan would lead us to believe that that is quite all right. In his view the business community can raise their prices while the rest of the community has no rights at all to raise their voices in opposition or indeed to organise themselves against the rises. 
The resolution of industrial disputes is such a serious matter that it requires the combined intelligence and goodwill of all concernedgovernment, Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and unions. On 30 April 1947 the late  Dr Evatt,  who was then the Attorney-General of Australia, when addressing this chamber on a Conciliation and Arbitration Bill said: 
If laws are believed to be necessary for the maintenance of industrial peace and justice, they are embodied in the permanent legislation. Waiting for an emergency to arise would show that the remedy was dictated and coloured by what was regarded as the nature of the emergency. Nothing could be worse than that. 
Yet here we are 30 years later and this Government has not moved one inch away from that position. It is trying to take action in the light of a dispute coloured and dictated by the circumstances of that dispute. 
It is interesting to note that that Bill on which  Dr Evatt  was speaking was introduced into the House of Representatives on 12 March 1947. Debate was resumed on 16 April. Honourable members can see what the time lag was. The Bill finally passed through the House of Representatives on 30 April that year. The Senate ultimately dealt with the matter on 14 May 1947. That was a somewhat more sensible time-table for a measure that would affect the lifestyle of every man, woman and dependant in a case where the family breadwinner relied on wages or salary for income. The late  Mr Harold  Holt was given to reply in that debate that 22 government supporters and IS members of the Opposition had spoken on that day. But then Labor governments have always given ample time to debate serious issues. This contrasts strongly with the 2 1/4 hours and six speakers we are to hear today. It is a snub and an arrogant rebuff to the Opposition, to the trade union movement and indeed to the people of Australia to have this measure introduced yesterday at 8 p.m. and to expect a full, in-depth debate at 12.30 p.m. today. The Bill is Draconian in is extent. The Government is being completely dishonest if it says that these are the same measures as were introduced in March. These are different measures. It is specious to argue that these measures are prompted by or indeed aimed at the resolution of the dispute currently taking place amongst power workers in the Latrobe Valley in Victoria. 
The conspiratorial reputation of the Prime Minister, his apparent desire to be constantly surrounded by controversy and turmoil, his philosophy of divide the people and retain power and his obvious need to provide a diversion from the poor economic position and extraordinarily high unemployment in this countrythe highest for 50 years- give all the reasons for this legislation being introduced, and introduced with such indecent haste. Never before has Australia had a more morally corrupt government than the one it has now. Never before has an Australian government lurched from selfmade crisis to self-made crisis. Laws should reflect the greatest good for the greatest, number and be tempered with justice. This law is designed to deny rights to unionists. It does not give rights that do not already exist. The Minister concedes that the Bill proposes important farreaching amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Who knows how important and how far reaching they are? It is not the Opposition, as we had only 16 1/2 hours from introduction to debate and some of those hours were needed for our nightly sleep. It is not the bloodyminded hawks who sit behind the Minister, because they do not care as long as the legislation destroys the unions and gives them a free hand to use their own organisations to exploit the community without let or hindrance. 
The Minister would be the last person one would expect to appreciate the scope and range of this instrument for blood letting, such is his history of understanding the consequences of his actions, or rather actions forced upon him by the Kublai Khan of the industrial world, the Prime Minister. With respect to the parliamentary draftsmen and the departmental advisers, I am convinced that bland as they may be, their private reflections must bring trepidation to them. One could easily be accused of incitement simply by telling a self-evident truth. The working men and women and their organisations- organised labour- will not blithely accept this latest assault upon their very existence. The organisations were born in agony, and out of oppression by need and can be relied upon not to suicide. As with each piece of legislation introduced dealing with industry, there is always provision for action against unions. It is not provocative to say that with this great arsenal of anti-union legislation already available to it, the Government has seen fit not to use any of it yet. Now it wishes to add nuclear weapons to an already over-stocked arsenal. Yet the arsenal remains untouched. Why? Because sensible employers warned these lunatics that to unleash their weapons would be disastrous in the extreme. However, the paranoic desire of the Prime Minister to divide the community and establish grounds for an election keep coming to the fore. No legislation will prevent men and women from organising themselves for survival. History tells us this. But the only thing this Government ever learnt from history is that it never does learn from history. The National Labour Consultative Committee serves no further useful purpose with the introduction of this Bill. It, in turn, will disappear. 
There has been great play about the question of secret ballots in unions. Provision already exists for them. Most of the unions, if not all, use this provision. The exception, I think, is the Waterside Workers Federation which has an election day to elect its officials in the same way as the people of Australia elect their governments. The union has compulsory voting and fines members if they do not vote for their union officials. If we are talking about secret ballots before people decide to go on strike, let us cast our minds back to the stoppage by the air traffic controllers earlier this year. 
-Very well then. The Minister has moved away from the situation concerning air traffic controllers. He realised how silly that was. He is not going to talk about that any more. The Bill then refers to the personal rights of people to join or not to join unions. I thought I had found an ally in the honourable member for Swan. He started to talk about there being no room in our community for scabs and free loaders and that people ought to pay if they receive benefit from the actions of others. All I can say is that I must have misunderstood him. In the second reading speech the Minister says: 
One of the fundamental tenets of the Government's industrial relations policy is that each member of the community has both rights and obligations: Those rights must be protected and the obligations must be met. 
Will the Minister tell me how he equates that statement with a factory, any factory, where the people working there take a decision individually and collectively that they will not work with anyone who refuses to join their industrial organisation? How does the Minister reconcile his words in the second reading speech with that situation? That situation obtains in quite a number of factories around Australia. Personally I applaud it Having spoken with the people who are responsible for the management of those factories I know that they applaud it, because they have a very small amount of individual strife within their factories. They do not have to deal with a number of people. They deal with properly elected shop stewards of the union. The problems are sorted out on the shop floor. 
We all witnessed the history of the unfortunate man Krutulis. He went along to the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board to seek work as a tram conductor. We know what happened. We know that the people who work for the Tramways Board said that they would refuse to work with this man. We know that the matter was then taken up with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We all know the words of Commissioner Cohen. She said that the role of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is to resolve disputes, not to start them. That is the role of the Commission. It is the reason for the existence of the Act itself. This Government finds nothing nicer when it believes an election is looming than to stir up the community, to divide it and to raise this specious law and order issue. We all know that the Tramways Board cannot function with only one person collecting fares on its trams. It needs other people to drive trams and to collect fares on other trams. Commissioner Cohen was wise enough to know that the people in that depot had made up their minds that they were not going to work with any person who came to them to try to break down their conditions. 
The same sort of thing applies to the man Latham from Broken Hill. We all know that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  tried to make great political capital out of a situation that he knew to be wrong. Yet he took this man around to the courts of the land and succeeded nowhere. The man is still without employment because he still declined, having been persuaded by those who have a hatred of unions- that man I do not believe does have a hatred of unions- to face up to his responsibility as an employee in an establishment and take out his union membership. 
We all read the Press reports about our own Prime Minister being in Kalgoorlie the other week. He nipped behind the bar to serve someone a beer. He promptly got lumbered by the local secretary of the Liquor and Allied Industries Employees Union. He was told to either join the union or to get out from behind the bar. He said that if the union would send him an account for his membership he would send back a cheque. The members of the union said that they would not bother sending him an account and furthermore that they did not want him as a member of the union. But he did get out from behind the bar. Therefore - 
-Please stop talking about yourself. 
-It is not surprising that people cannot follow this Bill. It is such a jumbled hotch potch that it is very difficult to follow it through. Even having made copious notes it is still difficult to follow the legislation through because it has no sequence to it. I refer again to the second reading speech and to the Minister's own words: 
Clearly, in any large group of individuals such as a trade union, while there might be agreement about traditional union goals, the scope for disagreement about other issuespolitical, social, cultural, environmental- may be as great as the diversity amongst individuals in an organisation. 
That is given to us as an argument why unions should not exist and why they should not be permitted to take action around things that this Government cares to call political strikes. For example, the Government called the Medibank strike of last year a political strike and ignored the fact that the Medibank levy was taking money out of people 's pockets. To cap it all off, the honourable member for Swan who spoke previously, had the temerity to tell this chamber that the dispute with the power workers in the Latrobe Valley now is a political dispute. Everybody knows that the bone of contention there is a payment of money. The workers are claiming an additional $40 a week. How anybody can twist that around to call it a political strike is beyond my capacity to understand. 
-Somebody has left the barn door open again,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and the ass is braying its head off. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I refer now to conscientious objectors. I have looked through the second reading and through the clauses of the Bill and find this question probably a lot wider and more embracing than even the Minister believes it to be. If a certificate of conscientious objection is indiscriminately provided it could lead to a rather anomalous situation and once again, rather than bring about industrial peace and harmonywhich I know to be the aim of the Labor Party but I rather doubt that it is the aim of the Liberal Party- where the majority of people within a particular establishment have taken a decision about a matter that affects them and one or two of them care to opt out of that decision, it could create conflict. The employer cannot dismiss the person who chooses not to go along with his fellows. The person concerned can simply get a certificate of conscientious objection which is available to a person now. As I understand it, the person then pays into the court a sum of money equal to union dues. Is there any real need for this provision in the Bill? It already exists in the Act 
-I see. As the Minister has explained this applies only to awards with preference clauses. 
-A11 right. If we are talking about awards without preference clauses it seems to me even sillier to introduce such a provision. This provision will either apply to a place that is not fully organised and has no preference award or, if the place is fully organised, the Government will not get away with such a provision anyhow. 
-I understand what has happened in Britain is all that ever happens when this - 
-The hearing in connection with this project was of great interest to the Public Works Committee. It extended over four days, with one day in Melbourne and three days in Hobart. The reason that three days were allocated to Hobart- there was a break between the two hearings- was that the Committee was not quite satisfied with the evidence that it had received in Melbourne or in Hobart that there was justification for the project to go to Hobart. So the further hearing took place. One of the things that caused the Committee to have some doubt about the matter was mentioned by the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  in his speech. He referred to the absence of a White Paper. A Green Paper has been presented, but it became clear to the Committee during the course of the evidence given by many noted witnesses that the whole complex was related to Australia's continued activity in the Antarctic for scientific purposes. There was some doubt in the Committee's mind as to whether the Government intended to go on with this activity, because the Government had not clarified its position or made a policy decision as to whether it would continue with Antarctic research. That matter is still not clarified. 
The Committee finally agreed that the laboratory should go to Hobart. It was satisfied that it could operate from there. Questions were raised about logistic difficulties. These were resolved, but a number of other facets became clear, as well as the absence of a White Paper. It became quite apparent during the course of that hearing that transport between the mainland and the Antarctic is in jeopardy. The ships,  Nella Dan  and  Thala Dan,  are hired from the Danish Government. One of them is at present in Singapore for repairs. 
Sitting suspended from 6.2 to 8 p.m.  ( Quorum formed). 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was mentioning that the Australian Government hires ships- the  Nella Dan  and the  Tharla Dan-  from the Danish Government on a part time basis to take our expeditions to the Antarctic. There is no provision for air transport between Australia and the area that Australia occupies in the Antarctic continent. For the interest of honourable members, Australia lays claim to and occupies some two million square miles of the Antarctic- equivalent to two-thirds of our continent of Australia. There is talk internationally that Australia might be regarded as some sort of squatter there. I mention these things, which do not really concern the Minister, because they were of interest to the Committee. They were mentioned in the report, and I think they ought to be brought to the attention of the House. 
One particular matter I wish to raise with the Minister, and which is raised in the report, is the vexed question of the glaciology section which at the moment is attached to the meteorological section of the University of Melbourne. The position was put quite clearly to the Committee by  Dr Budd,  an eminent, in fact world renowned, glaciologist, that the best interests of glaciology would be served by retaining that section at the University of Melbourne in conjunction with the meteorological section there. When the Committee considered this proposal and the evidence relating to it, it came to the conclusion that it probably would be in the best interests of the pursuit of science in the Antarctic if the glaciology section did remain attached to the meteorological section at the University of Melbourne. That conclusion is mentioned in two of the Committee 's recommendations. 
Aligned with that is the fact that about threequarters of one of the two laboratory buildings proposed was to be occupied by the glaciology section. There was also to be one ice tower building. Examination of the witnesses revealed that as late as 18 months from now, the ice tower of this very fine $7.3m building could be removed without cost penalty. The Committee thought that 18 months from now the Government will have made up its mind as to whether the glaciology section would remain at Melbourne or go to Kingston and that no cost penalty would be involved in the removal of the ice tower from the project. 
The Committee raised for consideration by the Government the question of these laboratory buildings. I should have thought that when introducing this matter the Minister would have indicated to the Parliament-after all, the Government is asking the Parliament to approve the works- whether a conclusion had been reached concerning the construction of this extra laboratory building. Prima facie, it would appear that if the glaciology section is not transferred to Kingston this building will not be needed. With due deference to the Department, mention was made of the fact that the scientists did intend to spend more time being involved in the science of the sea. They said that if this science were pursued to a greater extent than it is now they would probably use this building for that purpose if the glaciology section remained attached to the meteorology section at the University of Melbourne. The Minister did mention two recommendations of the Committee: 
The Committee believes that the glaciology section should not be transferred to Kingston. 
The provision of laboratory facilities for the Antarctic Division should be re-examined when a firm decision is made by the Government as to the scientific tasks to be undertaken by the Antarctic Division at Kingston. 
The Minister then went on to say: 
In regard to the glaciology section, the Government recognises the merit of the view expressed by the Committee and this will be taken into consideration when finalising arrangements for the transfer of the Antarctic Division. 
I am not being critical of the Minister when I say this, but it seems to me that if the Government comes to this Parliament and asks the Parliament to approve expenditure of $7.3m, which sum includes one of the laboratory buildings and the ice tower, then the Parliament is entitled to know whether the Government has made up its mind about transferring the glaciology section from Melbourne to Kingston and whether that section will be engaged in the greater studies of the seas around the Antarctic- in other words, in oceanographic biography. 
If that section is to be involved to a greater extent in this particular scientific discipline, then 
I believe the Government should say so. It should be saying to the Parliament: 'Well, we agree with the project as laid out, and as recommended by the Committee, for retaining that second laboratory'. It should say that the Government is in favour of retaining that second laboratory because that section intends to engage in pursuits other than those in which it has been engaged up to date. The Government, through this Minister, is not saying that. It says it will consider these things at a later stage. 
I know the workings of this House and I know that the Parliament will undoubtedly approve the works but the Parliament is being asked to approve something about which the Committee could not reach a firm conclusion. It could only recommend but the Government has not taken up that recommendation and made a firm conclusion. It has left the matter up in the air. It has left the Parliament up in the air. The Committee is no wiser now than when it came to its conclusions. Frankly, the Committee came to its conclusion in the hope that it would cause the Government itself to come to some firm conclusions. I refer again to the White Paper which still does not exist, and there is no indication as to when it will come into existence. If the Australian Government were to adopt the policy of reducing its activity in the Antarctic that would place a different light on the whole project. Perhaps the Parliament might then say that there is little justification to spend $7.3m on works in Kingston to house the Antarctic Division headquarters and the analytical laboratories when the Government is not giving any indication of how far it is prepared to go in Antarctic research. 
I simply leave those matters with the Minister. I can only say that the witnesses who came before the Committee were very eminent men. They were professors and the like, people world acknowledged in their field. It brought to our attention the renown with which Australian scientists in the Antarctic region are known around the world. We were very proud and privileged to have them appear before us. Every witness was of a high character and standard. Every witness put a point of view that bore consideration. It is for that reason that the Committee took four days to deliberate on the matter and to hear evidence. I would rather hear the Minister's reasons for not being able to come into this House with firm propositions tonight than hear him repeat the recommendations of the Committee which were terribly vague. The Committee is not the Government. It does not take decisions. The Committee hears evidence, deliberates and makes recommendations to the 
Government. The Government now recommends to the Parliament the expenditure of $7. 3m. I think that the Parliament is entitled to know exactly what that $7.3m is being spent on. 
-The amendment that was moved - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 A division having been called and the bells having been rung- 


 Has Committee divided. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  I appoint the honourable member for Griffith and the honourable member for Maranoa as tellers for the ayes and the honourable member for Hughes and the honourable member for Hunter as tellers for the noes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There is no point of order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The Committee will come to order. There is no point of order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The Committee will come to order. There is no point of order. 

 The division proceeding- 

The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no point of order. I have appointed the tellers and the division will proceed. (The  Deputy  Chairman-Mr Ian Robinson) 
Ayes.......... 60 
Noes.......... 27 
Majority....... 33 

<graphic href="107131197710250_44_1_3_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710250_44_1_2_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710250_44_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710250_44_1_4_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put- 
That the amendment  (Mr Uren's)  be agreed to. 
The Committee divided (The  Deputy Chairman- Mr Ian  Robinson) 
Ayes.......... 26 
Noes.......... 62 
Majority....... 36 

<graphic href="107131197710250_44_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710250_45_2_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197710250_45_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the negative. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The question now is: 'That the proposed expenditures for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Department of Construction be agreed to'. 
I seek the call of the Chair,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The Committee will come to order. 
I am seeking the call of the Chair,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  What has happened so far is that the question put was on the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. As I understand the position, the original question is still before the Committee. I seek the right to speak on that question. The question before the Committee now is: 'That the proposed expenditures for the Department of Housing, Environment and Community 
Development and the Department of Construction be agreed to'. So far we have seen a disgraceful exhibition in this chamber. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The question before the Chair was being stated when the honourable member for Corio took a point of order. The honourable member for Burke then rose and proceeded to speak. I call the Committee to order. I will put the question. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The  Deputy Chairman  is competent to state the question. That is what occurred. The question now is: That the proposed expenditures for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Department of Construction be agreed to'. I call the honourable member for Burke. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, we have seen a disgraceful exhibition in the chamber this evening, especially by the Government Whip - 
That the question be now put. 
. . . who was afraid that it would be highlighted this evening that two members of the Liberal Party in Victoria voted against corruption. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The Committee will come to order. The honourable member for Burke will resume his seat. The question is: That the question be now put. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no, I think the ayes have it. 
Opposition members- Divide. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The Committee will divide. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Will you state your point of order? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! No point of order is involved. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- It has nothing to do with the Committee. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I have listened to the point of order raised by the honourable member for Hughes. My ruling is that the point which he has raised is nothing to do with the Chair. Arrangements made between the Whips is nothing to do with the Chair. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The question now is: 'That the question be now put'. I have put that question. Rmg the bells. 

 The bells being rung- 


 The bells having been rung- 

The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! Lock the doors. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The question is: That the question be now put*. The ayes will pass to the right of the Chair, the noes to the left of the Chair. I appoint the honourable members for Griffith and Maranoa tellers for the ayes and the honourable members for Hughes and Hunter tellers for the noes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The tellers for the noes having refused to act, I declare the division in favour of the ayes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The question now is: 'That the proposed expenditures for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Department of Construction be agreed to'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -The honourable member's dissent will be recorded. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  In these circumstances only one honourable member may request that his dissent be recorded. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The question before the Committee must be put first. 
Question put: 
That the proposed expenditures for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Department of Construction be agreed to. 
I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  who, in the closing part of his address, really raised the problems that preclude the solution that he was intending to put forward. I can only say about his suggested solution that I have never heard such a naive contribution to a debate in all the years that I have been a member of this Parliament. The honourable member conceded finally an anti-conscription mentality in the Australian community and that International Labour Organisation conventions to which Australia is a signatory forbid the sort of civil conscription which he advocated. One would have thought that one was listening to the League of Rights, listening to the honourable member carrying on in this place. He was obviously envisaging these young people being trained as strike breakers. That is what he was talking about. He was talking about these young people being put to work. He did not say what sort of work. He just said that they would be put to work. He suggested forestry work. I did not hear him suggest anything else. He did not tell us who would be the almighty who would determine the areas into which these people would be channelled. 
He said that if there were national disasters or national strikes these people could be put to work. I do not know how a bloke who is unemployed would be trained as a fitter and turner to do the work of a fitter and turner who has withdrawn his labour. There is so much arrant nonsense in what the honourable member is putting forward. That was indicated by his opening remarks that the solution of this Government to unemployment is to establish a radio talk-back program. That is what he told the Committee, Surely the young people who are unemployed in Australia are entitled to better consideration by the Government of this country than to suggest that it establish talk-back programs as that they can talk about their problems. They do not want talk-back programs. They do not want to talk about then- problems. They want solutions to their problems. 
-The honourable member for North Sydney said that they just want money. Of course they want money. How can they survive in a capitalist society unless they have money? The honourable member for Calare is not giving us a solution to that problem. He said that we should talk about it; we should put them to work- conscript them. Let me remind the Committee that the honourable member and all honourable members who sit on that side of the chamber preach freedom of choice of the individual. 
-The honourable member for Maranoa said: 'Of course1. Of course they do. Now honourable members opposite want to conscript the young people who unfortunately are unemployed through policies brought about by this Government which has created the worst unemployment in this country for 50 years. They are quite proud of the fact. They sit smugly back in their comfortable green plush seats in this chamber and simply say that those who are unable to find employment through the policies of the Government that they support should be conscripted for the unemployment benefit that they are paid, and put to work at that price. How dishonest can they be? However, it was not my intention to speak on that matter tonight. I was simply provoked by the honourable member for Calare and by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who, speaking on the estimates for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, promptly proceeded to fracture every attempt at industrial relations in this country. 
I want to speak tonight on the estimates for the Department of Science which follow the estimates for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The Department of Science covers a multitude of fields, as can be imagined by the community, even by those who sit opposite. Earlier this year, in June and in August, it was my pleasure to be Vice-Chairman of the Joint Committee on Public Works which sat in both Melbourne and Hobart to hear evidence from many eminent Australians about the future of the Antarctic Division of the Department. Whilst examining that matter, it became abundantly clear to the Committee that the Australian Government had no firm policy in relation to the Antarctic, despite the fact that during the term of office of  Mr Bill  Morrison as Minister for Science he brought down a Green Paper. Just to explain that terminology, a Green Paper is a discussion paper, a paper brought forward for discussion by the Parliament, by the Government and by the community. A White Paper is the determination of the Government after it has listened to all that discussion. That White Paper becomes the policy of the Government. 
It was extraordinarily difficult for the Committee to sit in judgment on the transference of the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science from Melbourne, where it is currently located, to Kingston, just outside of Hobart in Tasmania, without knowing the future role of the Antarctic Division of the Department. Evidence was given by eminent people such as  Dr Law, Sir Frederick  White, K.B.E., the former  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Professor Schwedtfeger, of the School of Physical Sciences at FlInders University, South Australia, and  Dr Budd,  and eminent and world renowned glaciologist. These eminent people freely gave evidence to the Public Works Committee. There are three large volumes of evidence.  (Quorum formed). 
It seems that I was sidetracked somewhere along the Une. I was trying to relate industrial relations with the Antarctic. I found out that it will not quite work. However, I return to industrial relations. It is fairly clear from comments made by the honourable member for Franklin and other Government supporters that as long as they are members they will, for short term political gain, exacerbate and highlight any industrial dispute in Australia. I believe that the role of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is to use all of his good endeavours to prevent industrial disputes and not to have his colleagues exacerbating situations. 
It is obvious that every industrial dispute that occurs in this country occurs with good cause. The men who have been out of work recently in the Latrobe Valley returned to work today. The sort of attitude that has been expressed by  Mr George  Polites of the Chamber of Manufactures could well be listened to by those who sit on the other side of this chamber.  His  firm belief- of course, he is not member of the Australian Labor Party- is that industrial disputes will be solved much more rapidly and more amicably if they are left in the hands of the parties to the dispute and if the politicians keep out of them. It is clear from the action of the Prime Minister of this country and of Government supporters - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not rise to defend myself against the puerile attack from the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton).  In fact, what he was saying was not altogether true. At no time did I attack the locating of the headquarters of the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science in Hobart. In fact, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, of which I was Vice-Chairman, strongly recommended that the Division should go to Hobart. So for the honourable member for Higgins to talk about my being critical in any way of the location of the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science in Hobart of course is quite fallacious. 
I have not been to the Antarctic, as has the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  I have only spoken with people very knowledgeable about the area. I think that everybody would agree that  Dr P.  G. Law is probably one of the most knowledgeable people in Australia on the Antarctic. He was a witness before the Public Works Committee. Everybody would agree that  Sir Frederick  White, who for many years was  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, is another acknowledged authority throughout the world on the Antarctic. He also appeared before the Committee, as did Professor Peter Schwerdtfeger from the Flinders University and  Dr Budd  of the glaciology section of the Antarctic Division attached to the department of meteorology at the Melbourne University. 
Although I have not been to the Antarctic, having sat through four days of the Public Works Committee inquiry, I feel that I can speak with some authority about Australia 's role in the Antarctic. I hope that the honourable member for 
Higgins will read the ninth report of 1977 of the Public Works Committee that was presented to this Parliament. I see that he has a copy of it. He is waving it in the air. Cheers. The honourable member should read it Perhaps he has not had the advantage of reading the transcript of evidence, but if he reads the transcript of evidence in conjunction with the report he will find that the Fraser Government has not yet brought down a White Paper on Australia's future role in the Antarctic. If the Government is of a mind to set out a White Paper on Australia's future role in the Antarctic, it could do no better than read the transcript of the evidence that was taken in Melbourne, and probably more importantly the later evidence that was taken in Hobart on 29 and 30 August 1977. 
The Committee, albeit that it was sent there by the Parliament to examine a particular project, delved widely and deeply into the reasons why the Antarctic Division complex ought to be established at Kingston. Because of the world acclaimed credits attachable to the witnesses who appeared before the Committee, the honourable member should read the transcript of their evidence and indeed the Government should read it. What the Public Works Committee did on those two days in Hobart was write a White Paper on Australia's future role in the Antarctic. There are a number of deficiencies in Australia's role. The area of the Antarctic to which Australia lays claim is two-thirds the area of the Australian Continent. It is 2 million square miles in area- an enormous area of land. It has been reported by people who are knowledgeable in this area that Australia, compared with other nations, is regarded as a squatter in the area. 
Our contribution to Antarctic research has not been particularly great. I heard the honourable member for Higgins talking about resources available in the Antarctic. My information is that the technology is not yet available to bore through- if my memory serves me correctlysomething like 7 million cubic miles of ice. It is not as simple as boring a hole in the desert and pumping oil out of it. The depth of the ice is so great that as drills are driven into the ice it immediately contracts around the drills and snaps the shafts. All these technological problems have to be overcome. 
Surely Australia's role in the Antarctic is not going to be seen as that of another colonial power. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics maintains a base in the Antarctic, but claims no territorial grounds at all. The United States of America, our great and powerful friend, as somebody was once wont to call it, does not maintain any territorial claims to the Antarctic continent, but it gathers scientific research material in that area. Australia is a signatory to the Antarctic Treaty. Honourable members would have read in the Press recently that Australia is a very significant participant in world contribution and world dissemination of all of the scientific information that comes from the Antarctic. This is not a political question; it is not a question about who is to do what. It is a question about the Australian Government determining a course of action. It is time the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stopped playing his parlour games and told us when the next election is to be so that the people of Australia can elect a decent government. The Government of Australia, whichever party it may be, must of necessity take a positive role in the Antarctic. 
I heard the honourable member for Higgins talking about the harvesting of krill. It is a very important food. It is a high protein food. It is a very small shellfish that exists in the Antarctic in large numbers. What are we to do if the Japanese, the Koreans, the Taiwanese or anybody else send their ships to harvest the krill in the Antarctic oceans? Are we to send gunboats to shoot them out of the water because they intend to feed the starving people of their countries? Of course we are not. 
It must also be said that Australia does not yet own a ship that will take our expeditions to the Antarctic. It charters the  Thala Dan  and the  Nella Dan  from the Danish Government. One of those ships is out of commission at the moment. They make two voyages in the southern summer to the Antarctic continent and they have a limited time in which to do it. There is no way known that the Australian Government can fly Australian aircraft into the Antarctic and land in the 2 million square miles to which we lay claim, take in supplies or personnel and bring out personnel. We do not own an airstrip. We have not built one on the Antarctic continent. We rely on our great and powerful friend, the United States, and the New Zealanders to fly aircraft into the Antarctic continent. We have no Australian Government owned lines of communication between Australia and the area we claim in the Antarctic. 
These are questions with which the Australian Government must grapple. It has not given any indication in the estimates that it intends to do that. It has not moved one inch from the Green Paper that was prepared by Bill Morrison in 1975 when he was Minister for Science. It is now late 1977. For almost two years that discussion paper has been available to the present Government, but it still has not brought down a White Paper. It still has not announced its policy on the Antarctic. That was one of the problems that confronted the Public Works Committee. It was mentioned in the report. It was mentioned by every member of the Committee, irrespective of political persuasion, that the Australian Government does not have a firm policy on its role in the Antarctic. Unless it establishes a firm significant policy it will be seen by the rest of the world as a squatter in this area, hoping that it is going to maintain sovereignty over an area two-thirds the size of its homeland and hoping that no other nation will challenge it for the resources allegedly underneath the ice. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on5 October 1977: 
At current prices, what is the cost per square metre of the construction of office accommodation in (a) Melbourne, (b) Sydney and (c) Brisbane. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1 ) How many new apprentices have been engaged by his Department in each of the years from 1972 to 1977, inclusive. 
What is the ratio of apprentices to tradesmen. 
How many tradesmen have been employed in each of the years from 1972 to 1977, inclusive. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
1 ) Has the design team for the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong been disbanded; if so, why. 
If the team has not been disbanded, (a) is it the original team, (b) has it been diminished in size, (c) are all members staff of the Department of Construction, (d) is it composed of part staff and part consultants and (e) how many persons make up the team. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 13 September 1977: 
What proportion of the work performed by the Head Office of his Department was performed by (a) directly employed employees and (b) consultants in each of the years from 1969 to 1977. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Beef Cattle Research Laboratory at Rockhampton, Queensland; and 
Headquarters Operational Command at Royal Australian Air Force station, Glenbrook, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Treasurer informed him the full nature of his financial interests and responsibilities? In particular, has the Treasurer or any of his family companies ever held land in conjunction with  Mr Colin  Cooke,  Mr Paul  Day or  Mr Peter  Leake at 
Summerville or Mornington or in the Westernport region or on the Mornington Peninsula in Victoria? Has the Treasurer informed the Prime Minister whether the Treasurer personally or any of his family companies has any joint interest in land with  Mrs R.  Hamer? 
-One could be forgiven for being cynical about the speed with which the Government has dealt with this matter. It was only yesterday that the report of the Standing Committee on Public Works was presented to the Parliament and was ordered to be printed. Today the expediency motion to carry out the work has been moved. I realise the tight timetable because of the announced election date. It is interesting to note that this facility at Rockhampton is not isolated from two other facilities. The Committee reported on one in its fifth report of 1973. That was the high security off-shore animal quarantine station at Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I repeat that date- 1973. It is more than four years since that report was presented to this Parliament. That facility still does not exist. The Committee, in its sixth report of 1974, reported on the need for an animal health laboratory at Geelong. All that has happened there so far is that some site work has been done. The Government neglected to include in the Estimates this year funds to provide that muchneeded facility. So one could be forgiven for being cynical about the speed with which this expediency motion has been brought into the Parliament. Other works for which there is a pressing need have not yet commenced or are not proceeding at a rate - 
-I rise to speak in support of the amendment so ably moved- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Charles Jones's amendment)  stand part of the question. 

<graphic href="107131197711031_44_2_4_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_44_2_3_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

<graphic href="107131197711031_44_3_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_44_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="107131197711031_44_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-This Government is well understood by the community as being the laziest and most incompetent Government Australia has ever had. It seems to have an incompetence in the area of drafting legislation. This has been indicated to us many times. The Government had to introduce two pieces of legislation today to correct errors it had made. Reading clause 5 of the Bill, I am even more convinced of the Government's incompetence. I do not blame the very skilled draftsmen; I blame the Government. It is so confused and muddled in its thinking that it is not quite sure where it is going. Clause 5 repeals section ISC of the principal Act and replaces it with a proposed new section. The present section 15C states: 
The members of the Tribunal constituted as a division may conduct an inquiry and make - 
And I underline these words-  a report and recommendations. 
This latter power is taken away by the proposed new section. The proposed new section certainly sets up a division of the Tribunal so that the full Tribunal is not required to set about an inquiry. It states:  ... the Tribunal may be constituted by a division of the Tribunal consisting of- 
a member or members (who may be or include the  Chairman  of the Tribunal) designated by the  Chairman  of the Tribunal; and 
the associate member or associate members (if any) appointed for those purposes. 
But such a division is restricted in its inquiry. The proposed new section does not apply in relation to an inquiry for the purposes of the renewal of commercial licences or the suspension or revocation of a licence. I can understand it not applying to suspension and revocation. Proposed new subsection (7) is very interesting. I quote it in full. It states: 
The powers of the Tribunal constituted by a Division of the Tribunal for the purposes of holding an inquiry do not extend to the making of a decision, recommendation or report on the matter, or matters the subject  of the  inquiry. 
I ask honourable members to reflect on that wording. It seems to me that the proposed new section is creating a tiger and forgetting to give it teeth. It provides for a division of the Tribunal, as the parent Act does now, but it takes away from a division of the Tribunal the right for it to do anything except hold an inquiry. It does not tell us how it is to convey the results of its inquiry. 
It cannot make recommendations to the full Tribunal. It is forbidden to do that. It cannot make a decision; it cannot recommend; and it cannot report. Obviously I have hit the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on a raw nerve. He has gone away to see his advisers. Clearly there is another blunder in the way the Bill is drafted. If that is the case, and if I am not misreading the Bill-those words seem very clear to me-a division of the Tribunal cannot do anything except hold an inquiry. It has no way of conveying its decision. It cannot even make a decision; it cannot report; and it cannot make recommendations. What the goodness are we all about? Why are all these words used? 
It raises a doubt in my mind. Like my colleagues, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  I am very suspicious of this Government. The Minister accused my two colleagues of having minds full of suspicion. It is not surprising. The history of this Government over the last two years and certainly the history of the present Government parties when in opposition would cause any reasonable Australian to be suspicious of the Government. I am very suspicious why this clause is phrased as it is. I feel that it has something to do with a previous occasion when I understand two  deputy  chairmen of the Tribunal had the temerity to disagree with the  Chairman.  It seems that the whole new proposed subsection is to get over the problem of members of the Tribunal who do not comply. 
The proposed new section does not apply in relation to an inquiry for the purposes of the renewal of a licence for a commercial broadcasting station or commercial television station, being, in either case, a station situated within a radius of 50 kilometres from the General Post Office in the capital city of a State. That means that a division of the Tribunal cannot renew the licence of a commercial broadcasting station or commercial television station situated within a 50 kilometre radius of a General Post Office. Our friends in cockies' corner continually tell us how the Labor Government seemed to treat them differently from city people. They are now part of the coalition, but they are being treated differently by their friends. It is all right to send a division of the Tribunal into the country areas. Get it 50 kilometres past a General Post Office and it can do what it likes, but it cannot conduct an inquiry concerning the renewal of licences of a station situated within the 50-kilometre radius. The Minister must make these things clear to us when he responds to this devastating attack I am making upon him. 
The whole proposed new section ISC seems to be quite pointless. I can see no reason for the Government wanting to repeal that which is already in the principal Act. It has pulled its favourite little trick to spoil the wording so that it becomes absolutely meaningless. Perhaps I am being fooled. Perhaps the Minister is much smarter than I give him credit for and perhaps those words mean something other than I think they do. Perhaps there is something sinister about this amendment. Up until the time I hear some reasonable explanation from the Minister, I oppose this clause. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I must respond to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I take the Minister's point. I do not dispute the fact that there may be a division of the Tribunal. I am a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. That Committee can appoint sectional committees, which are something less than the full Committee. No decision can be taken by less than half the Committee plus one member. I understand that. I learnt that when I first joined a trade union at 14 years of age. That is not what I am arguing. What I am arguing about with the Minister are the words used in clause 5. I repeat them. Proposed new sub-section (7) states: 
The powers of the Tribunal constituted by a Division of the Tribunal for the purposes of holding an inquiry do not extend to the making of a decision, recommendation or report on the matter or matters the subject of the inquiry. 
Why send two people or one person away to hold an inquiry? In such a case the legislation forbids such divisions making a report, giving information, making any recommendation or even coming to a decision. I accept what the Minister said about the decision. That is the job for the full Tribunal. But for goodness' sake, why send a man on an inquiry if he is not allowed to make a recommendation or report on what he has done, what he has heard and what he has seen during the inquiry. I urge the Minister to reconsider the wording of the clause. It is crazy. 
Clause agreed to. 
I wish to speak to the clause and thereby to the amendments which have been moved. I refer to Part IIIA- the Special Broadcasting Service- and in particular to proposed section 79d. When speaking to other clauses in this Bill before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, I mentioned that there was fear and trepidation in my heart at the way in which a government, and especially the present Government, could use this legislation to manipulate all sorts of things. I spoke on the basis of the imprecision of the language. I have been in this chamber long enough now to have observed members of the National Country Party and the way in which they sat up with their stop watches when we were in government. They were able to tell the Parliament, almost to the fraction of a second, how much time was given on the Australian Broadcasting Commission to the Australian Labor Party, or to this or to that or to the other thing. That ought to be a matter of concern to the people of Australia. Proposed new section 79d, which has the marginal note 'Functions', states: 
The functions of the Service are- 
to provide multilingual broadcasting services and, if authorised by the regulations, to provide multilingual television services; and 
to provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed. 
-The Minister agrees, nodding his head. I understand that it is to be done by regulation. 
-Again the Minister agrees with me. Now we have direct ministerial interference in the sorts of programs that go to air in Australia. The Special Broadcasting Service must do as is prescribed. The Government or the Minister, probably the Government, makes the regulation that prescribes. Therefore politicians are telling the Special Broadcasting Service what sorts of programs it will put to air. My colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has already indicated his area of concern in this new Part IIIA. We have no quarrel with the Service providing multilingual broadcasting services and, if authorised by the regulations, providing multilingual television services. All of this is terribly vague. It leaves a very nasty taste in people's mouths that the situation depicted in George Orwell's book  1984  is here already. George Orwell's book was not written about socialists; it was written about the conservatives, the tones, the whigs and the capitalists. George Orwell knew how a government such as this one would take over the place and run its own propaganda machine. This Bill will do exactly that. It will set up a mouthpiece, a propaganda machine for the Government of the day. 
The people of Australia know that a Labor government would not misuse such an instrument. They know they cannot trust the Liberal and National Country parties. The people cannot trust them with anything. The people cannot trust them to provide jobs for children who leave school. The people cannot trust them with the country's bank account. 
-They are pretty good at that too. That is for sure. The Liberal Party is not too bad at sacking a few Ministers here and there either and accepting a few resignations from members of the Party. It is split right down the middle. The people of Australia would not buy a used Ford motor car from members of these parties. Why should the people trust them by giving them that sort of power? 
-The people would not buy a used Holden from them either. That is the sort of power that should never lie with them. We saw what happened in Germany during the 1930s when Goebbels took over the radio stations. I am not sure that anybody in the Liberal Party has sufficient brains to do that or to be as smart as Goebbels was. If ever the Liberal Party recruits such a person this Bill will provide the perfect vehicle to reach into everybody's house, into every nook and cranny. 
I oppose that sort of thing. I find it most offensive. I am surprised that in the last quarter of the twentieth century the Government of Australia should stoop so low as to have the Minister try to dictate what sorts of programs and what sort of information will go over the airwaves of this country. It is no laughing matter. It is not the sort of thing about which the Minister can put a supercilious look on his face and shrug the suggestion off. It is important. It is serious. It will be very serious to the people in the federal division of Burke; I can assure him of that 
I refer now to Part IIIb- Licences. Proposed new section 80 spells out what is a licence. It defines a licence. I quote from that section: 'specification', in relation to a licence, means a specification of any of the following matters: 
the nature of the service provided in pursuance of the licence . . . 
Again the nature of the service is referred to. Who will make all these decisions? Most of these things will be done by regulation. Again we come back to Ministers and governments- Ministers and governments that the people of Australia do not trust Proposed new section 8 1 states: 
Subject to this Act, the Tribunal may grant or renew a licence upon such conditions, and in accordance with such form, as the Tribunal determines. 
The Government is leaving the matter wide open. I have said that there should be no ministerial interference in this regard. I meant the nuts and bolts of the thing and determining which sorts of programs should go to air. Surely it would be obligatory upon any government to set up some sort of policy guidelines for tribunals. It is done in every other area. There is not a tribunal or a commission in this country that does not have guidelines. The Minister should know that. When his Government tried to enforce new guidelines on the Schools Commission it kicked over the traces. It would not be stood over by governments. It objected to the guidelines. So guidelines exist. 
There is still plenty left in the clause with which I could deal, but I must return to the point on which I started. I cannot say often enough that the concept frightens me. I am not easily frightened. I would be the least easily frightened person one ever met. It frightens me that this Government will have in its hand this weapon to use against the community, to brainwash the community and to use to determine what sorts of programs will go to air. The Minister is a reasonable man. I know that. I am quite sure that he will agree to this clause being altered to ensure that he will not be subjected to that sort of criticism by the people of Australia. It would break my heart to hear the people of Australia liken him to Goebbels. It is important that that not happen. Somebody once said that justice should not only be done but should be seen to be done. It is important that governments should not only be fair but should be seen to be fair. We cannot possibly have the influence that the Country Party undoubtedly exerts on the Liberal Party to ensure that all the programs that go to air in this country are impartial. Impartial to both the Liberal and Country parties means that radio and television programs will carry only LiberalCountry Party policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
1 ) Are the rates of pay for Cocos (Keeling) Islanders as follows: 
Headman, Rp 17.50 perweek 
Junior Headman, Rp 12.00 per week 
Estate Workers 
aged 25 years and over, Rp 9.00 per week 
aged 1 7-24 years, Rp 6.00 per week and 
aged 14-16 years, Rp 3.00 perweek 
Female workers 
aged 1 8 years and over, Rp 6.00 per week and 
aged under 1 8 years Rp 4.50 per week. 
Is the rupiah valued at the equivalent of 40 cents Australian. 
3 ) If the position is as stated will the Minister take steps to ensure that more equitable rates of pay are made to workers on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I add my congratulations to you upon receipt of your Imperial honour and also upon your re-election to the high office of  Speaker.  I shall be grateful if you will convey my congratulations to the  Chairman  of Committees, your  deputy,  on his election to his high office. I would also be most remiss if I were not to congratulate the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  for the contributions they have made in the House this day in their first speeches. I am quite sure that from neither gentleman will it be his last. I take issue with the honourable member for Mackellar on just a couple of points. It seems to me from what the honourable gentleman was saying that his solution to the unemployment problem in Australia - 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I do not quite share the exuberance for the future expressed in their speeches. It seems to me that the solution put forward by the honourable member for Mackellar to the unemployment problems of Australia is for all Australians to go into menial servitude in domestic service. He said that the tourist industry was damaged by silly benefits given to employees. As I heard his words, he said in effect that if the tourist industry in this country is to prosper, it will prosper by being able to use employees at a lower rate of pay than is generally acceptable in the community or with lesser benefits than are acceptable to the community. In other words, he said that the tourist industry in Australia can best be boosted by the employees in that industry subsidising it so that those who own the industry will be in a much sounder financial position. He elaborated on that point. He went on to say that it could be worth while if tax deductions were given to those who employed people in domestic employment. Again the honourable member made the point about people being in the menial employment of other people. He said that service in the tourist industry and in the domestic service of other people could be described only as menial and that people should be encouraged to go into those industries to become servants and to benefit those who cared to employ them. 
The honourable gentleman said that he had a great deal of business analysis experience. I trust that under the iron will of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the honourable member will display that experience whilst he is a member of this chamber. But the honourable gentleman obviously has no knowledge of the industrial laws in this country or he would know that people who go into private domestic employment are not covered by any award; they are completely award-free. The reason for that is that the courts are loathe to give trade union officials the right to enter people 's private homes. So the honourable gentleman would be quite happy to see a situation in which those who could afford to employ people from out of the vast army of unemployed- the 450,000- to do their menial tasks for them, would do so at a rate of pay which they determined. That, to me, is not quite Australian. It is quite unacceptable to me, and I feel sure it would be quite unacceptable to the majority of Australians. 
Because of the honourable gentleman's familiarity with multinationals, he was given to say that he was not afraid of them. He said: 'Well, why should we be afraid of them? We are a sovereign nation'. I point out to him that Chile is also a sovereign nation, but it would seem that a vast multinational corporation had a great deal to do with the destruction of the Marxist government in Chile and with the death of the  President  of Chile,  President  Allende. So in that context I express fear of the multinationals. I am not too sure that the sovereignty of any nation is as strong as the power wielded by multinational corporations which stride across national boundaries and which owe allegiance to nobody but themselves. 
I wish I could share the exuberance of the honourable member for Tangney who said his piece very well. I listened to him with great intent, as did other honourable members. He endeavoured to enthuse the House with the thought that there is a horizon. However, he has overlooked the fact that Western Australia already has its quota of Ministers. 
-The honourable member for Hughes reminds me that the honourable member for Tangney is probably an ex-toastmaster. But I do not believe that the Parliament could have been more demeaned nor that the electorate could have been more betrayed than it was by the address made to the Thirty-first Parliament by the GovernorGeneral.  His Excellency  the Governor-General is a loyal and principled person, quite unlike his predecessor, and it must have disappointed him greatly to have been asked to mouth the platitudes incorporated in the Speech and to have been reduced to the level of a loquacious backslapper for a government of autocrats which is intent on destroying every civil liberty enjoyed by the Australian people, a government so unsure of itself, so lacking in self-confidence - 
It always amazes me to hear Government supporters say that a Minister should come into this place and say this, that or the other. 
The honourable member asks: 'Why not?' That is precisely the point. We on this side of the House are constantly saying that the Government should announce its policies not only on fishing but also on a number of other items. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  will have his chance in the party room tomorrow. I am sorry. I withdraw that. I do not think that he will have his chance in the party room tomorrow. If he had his chance in the party room he would not have to come into the Parliament and lambaste the Government which he sits here and mutely supports. 
-The honourable member ought to tell that to Don Chipp. 
-He is at it again. Only five minutes are available to honourable members in this debate and as soon as I start to hurt him in debate he rises to take spurious points of order. 
-That brings me to another point. Only five minutes are available to an honourable member to raise matters in this House that are of importance to his electorate. The honourable member for Holt, who was rejected by the House of Commons, rejected by his constituency in London and rejected by the Conservative Party in Britain, migrated to Australia and somehow by accident wound up in this place. He is constantly standing up and raising matters that are not points of order, in contravention of the Standing Orders of this place which are available for any honourable member to read.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if the person who occupies the chair that you occupy with such dignity really did his job he would apply Standing Order 303 and shoot him straight out the door because he is guilty of wilfully disrupting the House. 
I want to raise a matter tonight, with due deference to the fishing industry and to the hardships that those people are suffering. Honourable members opposite proudly laud the fact that they support the free enterprise system in this country. But when there is a need for something to be done, they do not mind the Government having a hand in that do they? They do not mind coming forward and saying that the Government should negotiate in respect of factory ships offshore, with the Russians, the Japanese, the Taiwanese or anybody else. Obviously, the private enterprise experts in this field cannot do that. 
In the few minutes that remain after the interruptions by the honourable member for Holt, let me say that a very serious situation exists in this country insofar as pensioners are concerned. The Government, following the proposition of the Labor Party, has decided to give regular increases to pensioners. 
Government supporters- Hear, hear. 
-Hear, hear! I agree with honourable members opposite on that. The Government has done this on the basis that it has indexed the increase to movements in the CPI. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  nods his head in agreement, so I must be correct. He is the doyen of the Liberal Party on the Government side. But what has the Government done about the amounts that a pensioner can earn supplementary to his income. What has the Government done about the very small amount that disqualifies a pensioner from his fringe benefits- his telephone concession, his public transport concession, and a number of other concessions that are worth money to him? 
Therefore, one is really not just talking about the amount of money that a pensioner gets. The Government is being completely and utterly dishonest about the whole matter. It is saying that it has indexed pensions and that the pensioner will get a rise as the cost of living rises. I laud that, but how about looking at the other side of the coin also? It does not take very long now to earn $25. If a pensioner earns $25 his pension begins to be affected. Nor does it take very long to earn the $5 or $6 that a pensioner may earn weekly in addition to his pension before he loses his fringe benefits. Is the Government and all these champions sitting opposite of deprived people, doing anything about it? It is not. I have not heard a single Government supporter raise it in this place. On the contrary, I have done so tonight and notice that I have finally silenced all those yapping jackals on the other side, because the wisdom of what I am saying has sunk into their thick skulls. I trust that tomorrow morning they will take this matter into the party room, along with the fisheries problem, and discuss it with the appropriate Minister so that he can tell them where they are wrong. Then, let them come back into this House - 
MrBAUME(Macarthur)(10.48)-Forthe  information of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  I will send him a copy of collected speeches from members on this side of the House, especially speeches I made up to two years ago in this place, dealing with the very matter to which he has belatedly awakened; but that, of course, fits the pattern of the honourable member. Someone has apparently pointed out what was, and is, concerning the Government, and as to which members on this side have spoken with some vehemence. I refer to the need to index such things as pensioner medical cards and other fringe benefits. These matters were raised by Government supporters when the honourable member for Burke was, as usual, fast asleep. 
I raise tonight one of the quaint fallacies that we keep hearing from Opposition members, and that, unfortunately, intruded into my living room on Saturday night. That was on a program called  Four Corners.  I have a great deal of respect for Caroline Jones, who is a very effective and efficient journalist. However, I am rather tired of hearing the proposition that at the moment unemployment in Australia is worse than it was during the Depression. In fact, this is a simple bit of lying with statistics. Maybe honourable members opposite are proficient in that activity; but I would hope that those who are sufficiently mature or aged to recognise that there are statistics going back to the 1930s would in fact bother to find out what the facts really are before maintaining this fiction, or providing the Australian Broadcasting Commission with the capacity to parrot these allegations. 
The fact is that, according to the Census of 1933, unemployment, as a proportion of the work force, was then 17.65 per cent. This was in 1933 after the Depression had passed its worst. I seek leave of the House to incorporate this statistic in  Hansard. 
Leave not granted. 
I support 100 per cent the concept of a national water resources Bill. However, I reject the Bill we are now debating in the form in which it has been drafted and I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  which states:  ' whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that separate enactments should have been provided for each water resources projects . . . 
If I ever had any doubts about that amendmentand I never did- they were certainly dispelled by the speech made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  who has just resumed his seat. Apparently the honourable member has not read the Bill thoroughly because he labours under the delusion that the States will set the priorities in respect of their water resource projects. I draw his attention to clause 4 which refers to an agreement between the State and the Commonwealth. It goes on to mention 'projects approved, or to be approved, by the Minister'- that is the Minister in the Australian Parliament'and the appropriate Minister of the State, acting jointly; or projects specified in the agreement'. It also refers to amendment of the agreement. Paragraph (4) (b) states:  the amendment of the agreement by a further agreement in consequence of such a review. 
In other words, the States may set the official priorities but in the final analysis the Australian Government will decide which projects will proceed. In his second reading speech the Minister also said: 
It has been the practice for assistance to the States to be authorised by specific purpose Acts. However, the Government is of the view that standing legislation of this nature is more appropriate to the requirements of a long-term program. Moreover, it will reduce the legislative load in the Parliament - 
I repeat those words- 
Reduce the legislative load in the Parliament without in any way restricting the flow of information or reducing the opportunities for debate. 
I would question the last couple of words. The Minister went on to say: 
A copy of every agreement with a State must be tabled in the Parliament. In addition, the Parliament will need to consider separately the appropriation of funds for the purpose of the agreements. 
That sounds very good but if one cares to analyse the situation one realises that any Bill that comes into this House by its very nature must be debated by the Parliament- not only by this House but by the other place as well. There is no way that debate on the Bill can be avoided. But if a statement is brought into the House or a copy of an agreement is tabled there is no mandatory requirement that there be debate on them. Certainly they lie on the table and by inference they are open to the scrutiny of the Parliament, but it is the Government that controls the Notice Paper. If the Government does not wish to have the agreement debated in the Parliament, albeit that it is on the Notice Paper, that is where it stays. Frankly, if history is any teacher it stays close to the bottom of the Notice Paper. The Minister did qualify the statement. I repeat, he said: 
In addition, the Parliament will need to consider separately the appropriation of funds for the purpose of the agreements. 
The Minister did not say so in his speech but I take it from reading the Bill that he was speaking about the annual appropriations that come to this Parliament in August of each year. That is all very fine too, but the Minister knows as we all do that the time that is available in which to discuss those appropriations does not exactly allow sufficient opportunity to debate each of them in detail. I assume that a sum of money will be provided in the appropriations in August which will cover a multitude of projects. The Minister shakes his head. Apparently they are to be identified one by one. At least that will be a bit of a help. I agree with what was said by my colleague from Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick).  This legislation is a piece of window dressing of the first order. It pretends to give the States some say in the matter. But if one reads the Minister's second reading speech again one sees that all that it is doing is avoiding the Commonwealth Government's financial responsibilities and ripping into the States and local government. In the second reading speech the Minister says that the financing is to be: . . . generally on a 2:2: 1 funding basis- Commonwealth, State and local government authorities respectively. 
The Australian Government provides only twofifths of the funds for any project; two-fifths is provided by the State Government- that is on a dollar for dollar basis- but, for goodness sake, the local authorities are invited to contribute one-fifth. The Minister shakes his head. Perhaps he did not understand what he was saying when he made this speech. I point out that the Commonwealth has provided $17m since 1964-65 in grant funds to New South Wales for flood mitigation works for its coastal rivers, generally on a 2:2:1 funding basis. 
-Yes. Is it intended that the Government shall not continue with this funding? I thought I heard the honourable member for Dawson saying that the Bill would provide an excellent opportunity for the States and the local authorities to contribute to these projects. The whole point is that we are dealing with a national water resources scheme. As I said when I began my speech, I laud the legislation on that basis. In my view it is not good enough for a country that is alleged to be a dry country- I am not sure whether that is true- not to have a proper scheme. 
I think the Australian people are probably the worst harvesters of water in the world. They allow one of their natural resources, the water that falls on the land, to be wasted. Because our mountain spine is down the eastern coast of Australia, which has the highest rainfall, and because the mountains run north-south, the water, axiomatically, generally runs east or west. That which runs to the east flows freely into the sea. At times of flood I have flown along the coast of North Queensland and at Townsville and at other places for many miles out to sea the water is muddy. The Barron River from Cairns, the whole of Trinity Bay and the area far out to sea is discoloured with the mud that has been brought down from the high lands and washed into the sea. The fresh water that is essential for irrigation, drinking and a multitude of purposes is lost. Not far south of Cairns at Townsville in the tropical zone every year there are water restrictions. But the water that runs to the west of the mountains, that falls on the inland side of the mountains, winds up running through the channel country and eventually finds its way into Lake Eyre. It is probably a couple of years since I have flown over Lake Eyre but the last time I flew over it it was full of water- water that could not be used because it was contaminated by salt that is residual in Lake Eyre. However, had the water been harvested before it reached Lake Eyre it could have been made useful. It certainly flows through an area of Australia where no harm would be done if water were made available to the fertile land that is there. 
The Commonwealth certainly should take initiatives in this area. In his second reading speech the Minister spoke of sustained initiatives by the Commonwealth to ensure the most effective development and utilisation of Australia's water resources. I praise those words. I was disappointed by the honourable member for Dawson who seemed to think that his own State should have the deciding say in where water conservation or flood mitigation work takes place. If we talk about the honourable member's State we have to talk about the man who is the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  How could one trust a man like  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  if one is to negotiate with him where to build a dam or to do something else. Do not forget that this is the same man who during the recent election campaign in Queensland was not averse to going into electorates and saying blatantly to people- he has never apologised; he is proud of it- 'If you do not vote for my Country Party candidate in this area you can forget about any more assistance from the Queensland Government.' That sort of person, a political charlatan in Queensland, will now be able to say: 'You will not get any money from me to get the works done but I will also make sure you do not get any Australian Government money'. 
Consideration has to be given to this aspect. That is why I would like to see the matter taken away from people with a parochial, small minded and not altogether honest attitude, like the Premier of Queensland. If water conservation and flood mitigation are matters of national concern- I firmly believe that they arethey cannot be left in the hands of piddling, parish pump politicians like  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  They must be brought to a national level. Whether he gets a vote in the area or his candidate is returned should have no influence whatever on whether a dam is built there if it is needed. For that reason I reject the proposition that priorities should be set by the States. Frankly, only three State Premiers in Australia can be trusted. If all State Premiers could be trusted that might be a worthwhile proposition, but while there are premiers in Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia who could not be trusted in a crooked two-up game, how will we ever get development of our resources in the places where they should be developed? We should be doing away with that sort of nonsense and dealing with the question of national resources as a national decision in this national Parliament after proper debate and separate Bills being introduced to deal with each proposition. The honourable member for Dawson talked also about reducing the rate of inflation by not carrying out public works. I do not know whether that is what the Government has been up to. He indicated clearly that the Clare Dam near Townsville was not completed because the expenditure of funds required would push up the deficit, or some other crazy proposition. He was saying that because of some economic attitude of the present Government, particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  which is not agreed with by anybody else in Australiaemployers, political and economic correspondents, and all the experts on this side of the House and least of all myself- one cuts back on public works somehow or another to balance this thing called the Budget. 
Australia does not have a very great infrastructure. Let me digress for a moment. This does not have anything to do with water conservation. At Question Time today we were told that the loading of coal at two ports on the eastern seaboard of Australia- I think they were Newcastle and Wollongong- was difficult because they were not deepwater ports. The former honourable member for Cunningham has a scheme that would have made them deepwater ports but, for political advantage, those on the other side decided to denigrate that scheme and to denigrate the former honourable member, who was the greatest Australian that I have met. His love was for Australia and for the development of Australia but, for political advantage, those on the other side had him crucified. 
That is the infrastructure about which I was referring. In that area it relates to ports and harbours. Surely flood mitigation and conservation of water are almost identical things. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  comes from a backward State. I should not say that it is a backward State- I love the people of Queensland- but at the moment it is badly governed. The honourable member would know that when there are heavy floods it is the land that suffers. The soil is carried away to sea by the river and can never be reclaimed. Of course flood mitigation must go on in such areas. No longer can we tolerate large stretches of the inland being inundated. The honourable member for 
Maranoa and I have seen this in a wet year as we have flown across the continent. All the way to Darwin we have seen the inundation of the land by water which everybody hopes will recede and go away. For the next five years they wish it were back again. I know it is difficult to satisfy farmers. It never rains at the right time. To me, the present situation is absolutely ridiculous. If a national study were carried out and if the national resources of this country were applied to the conservation of that water and to the mitigation of damage caused by flooding the problem could be solved. 
It is only a problem of engineering, and nobody can convince me that we do not have capable engineers in this  country.  We did have them until honourable members opposite disbanded the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. There we had the greatest collection of civil engineers in the world. They would have been delighted to get their teeth into and solve a problem such as this. The rest of the solution concerns only money. Those on the other side will say: 'There they go. They are off on this mad spending spree again.' None of them have looked at the multiplier effect of carrying out these public works. It is true that public money would be spent. Can honourable members opposite tell me of a private citizen in Australia who will build a dam unless there is profit in it for him? Of course it is public money that is used to build dams, schools, hospitals, highways, harbours and airports. If it were profitable for private enterprise to build them it would be building them. The only reason why the community builds them is that there is no profit to be made. 
Of course it is public money that is spent on those things. Having designed the work and called for tenders, who will contract for the job? We do not have any construction teams in Australia. It will be private contractors who will apply for the job. They will buy their materials from private suppliers. The private suppliers will in turn engage labour to provide the supplies, and the contractors will engage labour to construct the project. Honourable members opposite should look at the multiplier effect of that and guage it against the 450,000 people whom they do not mind being out of work. 
The amount of money provided in this Billcertainly it relates only to the end of June this year- is not large by anybody's standard. Clause 7 of the Bill states: 
Payments (including advances) under this Act during the year ending on 30 June 1 978, not exceeding in the aggregate $2,300,000 - 
That amount would not build a mile of road- are payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is appropriated accordingly. 
Surely somebody on the Government side will be sincere about this matter and say that the Government should cease all this nonsense about new federalism, which is simply a window dressing exercise with the Government saying to the States: 'You can set your priorities within the State, but if we do not agree with them there will be a veto on them and nothing will be done anyway'. I am not in accord with that, but that is the way in which I understand the Bill. The honourable member for Dawson understands it differently. He thinks that the States will be doing the lot. As I have pointed out, it is just as well that we have a safeguard in the legislation against the political banditry of people such as  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
There ought to be a national water resources Act, but it ought to be setting up an authority similar to the Snowy Mountains Authority to solve the engineering problems associated with flood mitigation and water conservation. I reject the proposition that Australia is a dry continent. There are parts of the continent in which, for a variety of reasons even if there were lavish supplies of water, I doubt whether people could live. It is not feasible for people to be living all over the place, but certainly a lot more of the land could be made usuable if there were some conservation of the enormous amounts of water that fall on this continent and generally run to waste. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  referred to the problems which the people in his area are experiencing through lack of water in townships. In my electorate, which is now a vast rural electorate in which many primary producers live- they generally support me- there are growing up townships such as Sunbury, Gisborne and Woodend. The area does not have the advantage that Melbourne has- the Dandenong Mountains to the east. This is an ideal area in which to catch water. Most of Melbourne 's water is caught in the Dandenongs. The water that comes out of a tap in my house is caught some 25 or 30 miles away and carried through pipes to taps in my house. In the northwestern area of my electorate there are only the Macedon Ranges. Curiously enough, the rainfall there is not very high. The mountains themselves are not very high. So there is a difficulty in catching water of a standard and quality that is suitable for drinking and for domestic purposes for the areas of Sunbury, Gisborne and Woodend. 
Again this is a problem that could be solved by engineers and by lavish application of money. 
Our esteemed Premier of Victoria,  Mr Dick  Hamer, keeps telling the local councils in that area: 'We would like to solve your problem, but we just do not have the cash'.  His  predecessor once came back to Melbourne after a Premiers Conference and said: 'You do not have to worry about money. They have money running out of their ears up there'. Perhaps I should be addressing my remarks to my State colleagues so that they can go to the Premier of Victoria and say: 'You should get your oar in because there is money up there to improve the water supplies in these areas which are badly in need of improvement'. Unfortunately the area is represented in the State Parliament by a Liberal Party member and so is poorly represented. It is for that reason, but also for other reasons, that the water supply for Sunbury, Gisborne and Woodend is not as good as it should be. 
-This will be the third Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House that has been set up by consecutive Parliaments to look at the whole question of the New and Permanent Parliament House. I have served on the last two committees. Having been responsible for steering through this House the Bill that established the location of the New and Permanent Parliament House, I can say to my colleague the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  that progress is being made. It is not always possible to see physical results and achievements from the enormous amount of planning that must go into a New and Permanent Parliament House. In the planning the Committee is being assisted to a very high degree by the National Capital Development Commission. I agree with the honourable member on one point. The Committee has set as its target for occupation the year 1988- the bicentenary of the invasion of this country by Europeans. That is now just 10 years away. The construction of the building will take a considerable time and the planning is not yet complete. It would assist the Committee if the Parliamentperhaps I should say the Executive, the Prime Minister, the Cabinet- were to give some encouragement in this matter. It is known by all that the people who decry most the need for a new Parliament House are those who are working under the worst conditions that could exist in the whole of Australia, that is, the parliamentarians themselves. It is very difficult to get them to have the courage to stand up and say to the community: 'Yes, this building possibly will cost us $100m when it is built - 
-That is the sort of backward attitude that comes from many members on both sides of this Parliament. Unless the parliamentarians themselves stand up and are counted on this issue and go to the electorate with some degree of courage, any descendants with desires to sit in this chamber will find themselves very very cramped indeed. They may not be cramped in the chamber but it is the accommodation in the rest of the building that matters. My colleague has already pointed out, and statistics show, that the population of Australia is increasing. That leaves us with one of two alternatives. Either the existing number of parliamentarians will be representing larger numbers of people or else there will be an increase in the representation in this House so that the number of people represented will remain unaltered. If in fact the number of parliamentarians increases they will have to be accommodated not only in this chamber but also in the offices, the places where they do most of their work. If an increase does not occur in the number of members of Parliament and those members in fact represent more electors, obviously some form of assistance will be needed for them to perform their tasks. Whichever happens, more accommodation will be needed in this building, a building that is overcrowded now. 
It astounds me that the industrial unions of this country allow the clerks, the typists and the multitude of other people- I understand almost 1,000 people are employed here apart from parliamentarians- to work in the conditions under which they do work. There is a need for a new and permanent parliament house. I have said it before and I repeat- I am not afraid to say it here or publicly- that I trust those who sit in this chamber and in the other chamber will recognise the same need and display the same degree of courage. 
What is needed more than anything else, as my colleague the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  pointed out, is for the Government to express its attitude on this matter. The Government never has done so. The Committee to my knowledge has submitted two reports to date. Those reports have been politely presented in the House. They have been laid on the table and have then gone into the archives or have been subjected to whatever happens to reports that are laid on the table. Copies of the reports are available from the Bills and Papers Office, I suppose. At no time has the Government given a clear indication as to where it stands on this issue. I sometimes wonder whether it is playing some sort of cat and mouse game. It is the old caper. If you want something to be buried forever give it to a committee to have a look at. The job involved can be done only by a committee of parliamentarians in conjunction with the consultants from NCDC. Once a practical way of solving the many problems is found architects will be appointed and construction commenced. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  who is at the table, has moved for the setting up of the Committee. The Committee has long terms of reference. I hope that the Minister on behalf of the Government of which he is a part will give a clear and unequivocal indication to the House that the Government is firmly committed not only to design the new parliament house but also to build it. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that  Mr Andrew  Grimwade is a friend of the Prime Minister and a fellow member of the Melbourne Club and has been known to the Prime Minister since their days together at Oxford? Was  Mr Grimwade  nominated by the then Opposition in 1974 to serve on the Remuneration Tribunal? Further, is it a fact that  Mr Grimwade  was appointed by the Prime Minister to act as a supervisor in relation to government properties such as the Lodge and Kirribilli House? Is it also a fact that  Mr Grimwade  is a director of IBM Australia Limited? 
-Being one of the other Johnsons in this House, I should like to associate myself with the comments made by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  Last night and the night before I was neither near the motor car nor apprehended by police - 
-by leave-I rise simply to pay tribute- tribute is probably not the proper word- to Bert Kelly who for many years was  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee and under whom, for a time, I served as  Deputy Chairman.  While I was  Chairman  of that Committee and he was  Deputy Chairman  he was always a tower of strength to me. He always saw things in a way that was quite appropriate. He not only saw things in terms of the dollars and cents involved in a building but he also had a knack of inquiring into the actual need for the building. I suspect that some departmental witnesses who have appeared before the Committee will be pleased to know that he has retired from the Parliament because he really kept them on their toes. 
He also had a great understanding of people and in every hearing with which I was associated he always inquired from the most humane level or, to use his expression, from the point of view of the ordinary bloke. As he kept telling us, he was only a poor ignorant farmer. He always drew the best contributions from witnesses. The Committee will continue to function but I am quite sure that the wisdom that Bert Kelly brought to the inquiries and his patience with witnesses will certainly be missed. They will be missed by me because I have been associated with him for so long. I am sure that the present  Chairman,  the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey),  will follow those traditions laid down by the Honourable Ben Kelly- not that I am a traditionalist, but I think they have been proved effective. I just wish to express my gratitude to him on this occasion. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Is he aware of the results of studies by  Dr Thomas  Mancuso and  Dr Alice  Stewart on the medical records of United States nuclear industry employees? Is he aware that these studies suggest that workers exposed to low levels of radiation run a higher risk of cancer than had previously been believed? If these reports are verified, can the Minister say whether they mean that uranium miners in Australia would face a greater risk of contracting cancer than is presently assumed? Has the Minister sought the advice of Austraiian experts on the findings of  Dr Mancuso  and  Dr Stewart? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)-  I put the word 'honourable' in inverted commas- has caused me to rise to my feet tonight. I had no intention of doing so. It seems to me that the honourable member has made a cowardly attack upon the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  Anybody in this chamber at the moment would know by looking along the benches that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is not present in the chamber. I am not to know whether the honourable member for McMillan gave notice to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that he was going to raise this matter tonight, but it seems to me that it is cowardly, unmanly and not in the best traditions of this or any other parliament for any honourable member to rise to his feet and launch an attack on another honourable member who is not present to defend himself. I rose to my feet when the honourable member for McMillan was making his remarks and I was going to raise exactly that point. For almost five minutes the honourable member engaged - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! I ask the honourable member for Bendigo to refrain from interjecting. 

-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  For almost five minutes- with the exception of the interruption by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  who was provoked into rising to his feet- the honourable member for McMillan launched into an attack on the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. The honourable member for McMillan should know the Standing Orders of this House. As I said, I rose to my feet in an attempt to bring him to order on that point. It is not within the compass of the Standing Orders of this chamber for any honourable member to make an attack on any other member of this chamber unless it be in the form of a debate on a substantive motion. The honourable member did not do that. In fact at this hour of the night he cannot do it unless he can suspend Standing Orders, because the Standing Orders do not enable him to move a substantive motion at this time of the night. At any other time of the day, with the concurrence of the Acting Leader of the House, he could well have done that but in his true cowardly fashion he waited until this hour of the evening. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER ((Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Burke knows full well that that is a personal reflection on the honourable member for McMillan. I ask him to withdraw it. 
-I withdraw it. In his usual fashion - 
-That is a tactic that the honourable member for Bendigo has been using for a long time. He spent some considerable time defying you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-I demand a withdrawal of that statement by the honourable member for Bendigo. I know nothing of the matter about which he is speaking. I am not corrupt, nor have I been involved in any corrupt land deals. I demand an unequivocal retraction of that statement by that cur from Bendigo. 
-I will withdraw that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I trust that when you read the record tomorrow, when you find out what that cur said, you will then demand a retraction. 
-It is probably spelt Kerr'. I am not used to corruption being used in connection with my name in this place or in any other place. I will not sit idly by while you allow any honourable member of this place to make such an allegation without demanding a retraction. 

 Mr KEITH JOHNSON  Sir, you  can warn me as much as you like but I will not sit idly in this place or anywhere else and have the word corruption' associated with my name. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I refuse to apologise because the honourable member for Bendigo used the word corruption' in association with my name and you did not demand a retraction. 
-'Totally corrupt' were the words he used. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  is reported at page 1650 of the  Hansardof2  May 1 978 as saying during the adjournment debate: 
I raise a point of order. I ask the honourable member for Burke to tell us about the Craigieburn land deals in which he was involved and which were totally corrupt. 
With the exception of the land on which my own house stands, I have never at any time bought land, sold land, owned land, or been involved even remotely in the purchase, sale or ownership of land either at Craigieburn or at any other place, and neither has any other member of my family been so involved. The issue of Craigieburn land deals' which was referred to last evening is a matter about which I have no knowledge. Like other honourable members, I am jealous to protect the reputation I have in the community for honesty and integrity. Hence my distress at being directly referred to as being involved in thoroughly corrupt land deals at Craigieburn. Our Standing Orders- indeed, gentlemanly behaviour- dictate that such a charge be the subject of a substantive motion in relation to which evidence may be called and the accused have the right of a defence so that others may judge. I repeat that there can be no evidence that I have bought or sold land or been involved in any land dealings at Craigieburn or anywhere else. I am very much reminded of these words of Othello: 
Who steals my purse steals trash; . . . 
But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed. 
-I ask the Prime Minister Is it true that he will be touring Europe, Asia and America or any one of those places during the winter recess? How many countries did his Department contact seeking invitations and how successful was it? Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has been exhaustively courting an invitation from  President  Carter for more than a month? Is there any truth in Press reports that despite these attempts the  President  will not see him during his forthcoming visit to the United States? 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 4 May 1 978: 
1 ) Was a Nomad aircraft specially flown to Canberra at the request of the Prime Minister to give a demonstration to a  Mr Engle. 
Will he ask the Prime Minister to vigorously promote the Searchm aster version of the Nomad to the Minister for Defence and senior RAAF officers. 
) Will he use every endeavour to ensure that the Armed Services place orders for the Nomad aircraft and other Australian equipment where applicable. 
I rise because I cannot accept the words that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has just spoken. It is all very well for the Minister to use platitudes to talk about the Trade Union Training Authority being better managed by an Executive Board, but he has not demonstrated that to us at all. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  has just clearly indicated to the Minister in a very eloquent speech that that is not true. Let us understand this: In this chamber the Liberal Party, in its own right, has the numbers to buffalo legislation through. That is what it intends to do. All of the persuasive eloquence of the argument of the honourable member for Batman was lost on the Minister. He did not even hear it, or if he did he did not want to understand it. Did he tell us how the Austraiian Council does not work now? He did not. All he said was that this socalled Executive Board was going to do the job better. But did he tell us how? Did he tell us why? No, he did not. The reason is very simple- he cannot. What a nonsense it is for the Minister to stand here on behalf of the Government to tell us that we need an executive board to run the Trade Union Training Authority, which has been operating for 2 te years now under a body which the Minister now finds does not have any executive authority. So what a nonsense it is. The Australian Council has worked well - 
-I am speaking to the clause, you dum dum. 
Having served on the original Joint Committee on Public Works of 1973 that in fact visited Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean and Norfolk Island, I congratulate the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey),  on taking initiative under the section of the Act which gives him the right to have this matter re-examined by the Public Works Committee. It is rather curious to sit some five years later and to hear different witnesses from the same Department put forward views supporting a project that five years ago we were told was indispensable. I realise that there have been difficulties over the usage over the land at West Island. We were also very strongly convinced at that time that the station would need to handle 240 cattle or a larger number of smaller beasts. Now, five years later, we are told that figure must have been unreal. We have come down to the figure of 120 cattle. I will go along with the proposition at the moment, but I am not altogether satisfied in my mind that wisdom is being applied in relation to this quarantine station. 
I am strongly of the view that somewhere along the line someone put a blue pencil through the design. The Department was told to cut costs. I acknowledge that the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  paid credit to the Public Works Committee for saving those costs; but it did not. It looked at the project as it was then put forward. The escalation in the anticipated cost of the structure was not brought about by any escalation of costs in the Australian community; in fact it was brought about by the fact that in the original proposition the Cocos-Malay peoplethe inhabitants of the islands- were to be used in the construction of the building. 
However, there has been an efflux of people from those islands, as we have now been told. As a consequence of that, Australian labour will be used on the project. There are only about eight Cocos-Malays left who, if they offer themselves for work, will be provided with work of what is described as a municipal nature. All of those facts are very important. The Committee at that time argued that the people who built the building should be paid at Australian rates of pay, but the blue pencil was put through that suggestion. Although the demand for this station has been demonstrated by a number of cattle breeding organisations, neither then nor now can anyone say with any accuracy how many cattle a year will need to go through that station. 
I should like to avert to another hearing held by the Public Works Committee. It held hearings at Rockhampton in regard to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's proposed cattle research station. It was made quite clear to the Committee on that occasion that there was a need for bos indicus cattle from areas where cattle cannot now be brought into Australia because of the disease proneness of the land in which they have been grazing. So, the cattle are suspect. If there is an outbreak of any of these diseases on the mainland, the House would be aware, I am sure, that all Australian export beef would be- to use a colloquialism- 'declared black'. It would not matter where the outbreak was, all Australian beef and mutton would be suspect. So, it is necessary to have the station off-shore. 
These strains of cattle are badly needed, as the Minister said. We were convinced by cattle raisers and breeders in Rockhampton that there is a need for these breeds of cattle- these africanders, brahman and various other subbreeds of the bos indicus type. There is a need for them. There is a demonstrated need, but they cannot come to Australia because the countries of origin are suspect. Therefore, we need our own quarantine station. We need to renew the genetic strains in our beef to give them resistance to ticks and to what is called 'appetite' whereby the cattle can live on meagre herbage and pasture but still put on plenty of weight while they are doing it. 
This project is badly needed. I think that it is tragic and that Australia has just been damn lucky, to use that expression, that there has not been a serious outbreak of disease in the intervening five years. Coupled with this project, of course, is the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong. They are a handinglove operation. I understand that the Government has not provided very much money for the project at Geelong. Again, I think that is a tragedy. I am a little surprised that our agricultural community has not made its voice louder on these two projects. I certainly do not oppose the motion. I would have supported it five years ago and I support it very strongly on this occasion. I trust that it will not be too long before the off-shore high security animal quarantine station on West Island in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands is in operation. 
It did not take long for the well known anti-union bias of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  to show through. He reminded the House of the various industrial disputations which have taken place. It was also quite clear to those honourable members who listened to him that, in his view, all industrial disputes are the fault of unionists and that employers never play a part in bringing about disputes. The honourable member for Franklin denies to every working person in Australia the right to take the strongest action he possibly can to defend his working conditions and pay rate. In a nice way he always wraps his comments up by saying what the effect on Tasmania will be. Industrial disputation has an effect on everybody, no less than it does on the people of Tasmania. I am sure that there are workers who are not happy when stoppages of work occur. But, not everyone is as narrow in the mind as is the honourable member for Franklin. Those of us who have a sincere intent to bring about peace and harmony in the industrial area seek to ascertain who is at fault in disputes. 
The honourable member mentioned bringing matters before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for resolution. It is not always found there that the workers, the unionists, are at fault. As a colleague of mine said, his argument in that aspect was parochial, nothing to do with the Bill. Certainly it was with no sincere attempt on the part of the honourable member to bring about better industrial relations. But, we are not speaking about industrial relations when we speak of the Trade Union Training Authority. The purpose of the Authority is to train trade unionists as its name says. The Act also says it and that is not changed by this Bill. It is there to train trade unionists. Most people hope that this may have some effect in bringing about better industrial relations. It is not the prime function of the Authority to teach industrial relations, though it will be a part of it. Yet, that was the very reason given by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to bring on to the executive board representatives of the employers. The report of the Committee of Inquiry into Trade Union Training that was chaired by  Mr Paine  in 1977 does not advocate that at all. It does not advocate that employers be involved at that level. It makes mention of the need for employers, presumably it means employer organisations, to be involved, but it is speaking there more in the sense of the sort of workshop situation with employers and employees. I understand that is happening now. 
Nobody could doubt the wisdom of the words spoken by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he introduced the Bill in the House back in 1975. That is only two and a half years ago. On that occasion a number of honourable members spoke in favour of the Bill. The Minister spoke. The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  who is now a Minister spoke, as did the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who, I understand, will speak in this debate. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  spoke in the debate. Those honourable members all spoke in favour of the proposals, as well as members of the Senate. It is well worth recalling the words of the man who is now the Prime Minister of Australia and, I sometimes suspect, the architect of the Bill. On 23 April 1975, at page 2066 of  Hansard,  he said: 
. we do support the proposal for a national council for trade union training, and we recognise the need for widely based courses at a number of different levels. I have no hesitation in admitting that in our time in government- I do not exempt myself from responsibility in this- we should have given more attention to trade union training. 
There now seems to be a different atmosphere abroad. The Minister, and I trust that he was speaking of that day in 1975, said this in his second reading speech: 
I trust that this bipartisan support is maintained as the present amendments progress through both Houses. 
Let me assure the Minister that if he had put forward these outrageous proposals in 1975 as amendments to the original Bill there would have been no bipartisan approach in this House. If he did not do it then, why is he doing it now and why is he asking us to adopt a bipartisan attitude and agree with something that neither he nor any speaker in the debate so far has shown to be of any benefit to what has become, in the short space of two and a half years, a well co-ordinated, very efficient and very respected training or teaching institution, call it what you like. There is no evidence that the institution is in a state of disrepair at the moment. In fact all the evidence is to the contrary. The Minister knows it and this is why I am surprised that he has brought in this Bill in this form. He knows how efficient the institution is. 
I agree that there are areas of the existing Act that need tightening and this was pointed out by the Committee of Inquiry. Certainly there is a conflict of interest in the Secretary of the Minister's Department sitting as  Chairman  of the Australian Council. That conflict of interest became quite obvious in the middle part of last year when the Government was adopting an attitude which was in conflict with the attitude of the Australian Council. The  Chairman  of the Council, the Secretary of the Minister's Department, found himself torn between two loyalties- his loyalty to the Minister because he was Secretary of the Minister's Department and his loyalty to the Council because he was its  Chairman.  I agree that that situation needs to be straightened out. It was the Minister's amendment in 1975 which caused a representative of the then Prime Minister, a representative of the then Leader of the Opposition and a person nominated by the then Minister for Education to sit on the Australian Council. On that occasion the Australian Labor Party was most conciliatory, as it always is, and the two amendments put forward by the Minister were accepted without demur. That situation needs tightening too. I was appointed as the then Prime Minister's representative and I am still the Prime Minister's representative but there has been a breakdown in communications and we are not talking to one another at the moment. That matter certainly needs correction. 
-The Prime Minister who appointed me was a good Prime Minister. There is no doubt that those matters need to be tightened. I turn now to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry which was set up by the Minister without consultation with TUTA or anybody else. TUTA learnt of it through a Press release. The Committee of Inquiry made these recommendations on how the Act should be amended. 
The Act should be amended as follows: 
to create a statutory position of Chairman of the Trade Union Training Authority. 
I have already explained that amendment. 
For the Secretary of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations to relinquish his position as Chairman of the Australian Council for Union Training but still be a member of the Australian Council. 
That is fair enough. 
to create a position of National Director of the Authority. 
I agree with what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said. It was always recognised by the Australian Council that the Director of the Clyde Cameron College,  Mr Peter  Matthews, would be the National Director. That was to be so by resolution of the Council. If the Act needs to be tightened up in that respect there is no objection to it. The recommendations continue: 
the representative of each State on the Australian Council be drawn from the State Trades and Labour Council representatives on each State Council. 
I am most surprised at this turnabout in the Government's new federalism policy- that is its expression- and its reversion to centralism whereby the States will be isolated from the central body, the Australian Council. The six State representatives are not to be on it any more. At the moment the Act provides for each of the six trades and labour councils to be represented on the Australian Council, but with one fell stroke of the Minister's pen that is to be history. Under this Bill there is to be no State representation on the Australian Council. So much for the Government's new federalism. The recommendations continue: 
that the appointments to the Australian Council by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition should terminate with the life of each Parliament. 
Nobody could quarrel with that. 
the representative of a teachers' organisation on the State Councils should be replaced by a representative of Technical and Further Education nominated through the State Ministers for Education; 
the Director of the College and the Directors in each State should cease to be members of their respective Councils and act as secretary to these Councils in each case; and 
provision be made for the termination of appointment of any Council member who fails to attend a requisite number of Council meetings without the permission of Council. 
They are the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry but the Minister has chosen to ignore every one of them and has, on his own bat, to use his words, 'gone further than the Committee went'. 
The honourable member for Franklin seemed to get some pleasure out of speaking about the $3m of taxpayers' money being spent on trade union training. As part of our national education budget, $3m is not a substantial sum of money and in terms of the achievements of the trade unionists who have been through the college the Australian community has had good value for every dollar that has been spent. I invite the honourable member for Franklin to check the records to find out how much it costs a taxpayer to train professional people, the doctors and the lawyers. They do not meet the full cost of learning their profession. A very substantial part of the cost of their training and education comes directly out of taxpayers' money. I have heard some unkind people say that the community puts in money to train these people and then gives them a licence so that they can go out and rob the workers. I would not say a thing like that. 
So already we have deep community involvement in the training of people and apparently this is accepted by the honourable member for Franklin except for when it comes to training people in one particular profession or calling which happens to be related to trade unions. He described them as guerillas. I am not sure how he spelt that word but it was not a very nice way to talk about the trade union people of Australia. What does the honourable member want to do? Does he want to screen each student? Is that what he has in mind? That is a George Orwellian approach and this Government is quite good at that. Governments should not interfere in any type of education. There is something evil about that suggestion and my mind goes back to Germany in the early 1930s when books were burnt. If the Government sticks its little political fingers into this education pie one wonders what it will do next. Clearly the honourable member for Franklin has a distrust and a dislike, and a complete ignorance, of what is being taught at TUTA. Perhaps he imagines that students are being trained as urban guerillas. The honourable member should take the time to go to Albury. It would not take him very long and he has travel rights as a member of parliament. He would be welcomed there and it would do him the world of good to see the college in operation. 
I return now to his oft stated reference to $3m of our national education budget being spent on this education. This is a very small amount of money. He seemed to be saying that with employer involvement in the Australian Council we would be introducing an industrial atmosphere. I suppose  if we followed  that to its logical conclusion we would have less crime if we provided on the law councils of Australia a position for criminals and on the medical boards a position for patients. The honourable member must realise how ludicrous and absurd that would be. This too is an absurd situation which will be thrust upon the Trade Union Training Authority. There has been no agreement to this proposal by any of the peak councils in Australia- the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of 
Australian Government Employee Organisations or the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. 
I would not make so broad a statement as to say that the legislation is opposed by every trade union in Australia. There are a number of them and nobody could canvass all of them, but I suspect that some of them would probably support what the Minister is doing. However, I have no evidence of that, just as I have no evidence to suggest that they all support what he is doing. I do know, however, that there is a very strong feeling of support in the trade union movement for the existing situation and that there is great resistance to the proposed amendments which the Government, I repeat, is thrusting upon the trade union movement with very little consultation and certainly without consent. The Australian Council of Union Training is not in agreement with what is being done. As I stand here and speak tonight, I am wondering what is happening. When I first read the Bill almost a week ago I wondered, and I am still wondering why the Minister is proceeding in the way that he is. 
-What the honourable member for Cunningham says is correct. I think it is still part of this on-going attack on the trade union movement in Australia. The industral legislation which the Government has introduced in the last two years has been the most regressive and repressive industrial legislation in the whole of the industrialised world. I believe that this is just another shot in that longrange, continuing campaign of harassment of the trade union movement in Australia. 
The Bill will be considered in the Committee of the Whole. It would probably be more appropriate to speak at that stage of matters such as the dictatorial powers of the National Director, the structure of the Executive Board and the fact that the Executive Board can be stacked, rigged and made to do exactly what the Minister wants it to do. It is a situation in which the Minister not only has the right to appoint people to the Australian Council but also, with the greatest of impertinence, to take unto himself the right to appoint the trade union representatives to it. Surely that situation will not be tolerated by those honourable members who sit behind him. Five members of the Australian Council of Trade Unions are to sit on the Australian Council, and the Minister must be given 10 names. If he does not like any of the names on that list he can call for more names. It is shades of Joh Bjelke-Petersen and Albert Field. 
-That is what you are getting around to doing. You are getting worse than Bjelke-Petersen, if that is possible. You are trying to assume greater dictatorial powers than he has. You are certainly doing it on this occasion. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! 

-I would prefer to speak to you, anyhow,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am required to do so by the Standing Orders. Never has such impertinence been perpetrated upon the trade union movement than that which the Minister is trying to thrust upon it on this occasion. He is being a bit inconsistent, anyhow, because he demands a list of names for the Australian Council but he does not bother to do that in relation to the State council. That is not surprising, because the Bill does contain quite a number of drafting errors. What has happened is that it has been thrown together very quickly. The Bill has not been drafted following the consideration of a report so that it is lucid and fluid. It is just a hotch potch. Perhaps one night the Minister woke in the middle of the night screaming because he had had too much to eat the might before, got on the telephone and said: Look, draft me a Bill which will knock the TUTA right off'. If that is what he did, then whoever drafted the Bill has not done a bad sort of job. The Bill is full of holes; it has more holes than a fisherman's net. I remind the Minister- I cannot warn him of anything; nobody can- that this Bill does not have the support of the progressive trade unions in Australia. It does not have the support of the peak councils of the trade union movement in Australia. Unlike the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  I have confidence in the people of Australia. He can go out and bark about $3m and get a reaction to that. I am convinced that, for that amount of money, which is not a large sum, that has been spent on trade union training in the short space of 2 te years, and to the advantage of 17,000 students, the Australian people have never had their money spent so well. 
We are now in the area of deciding what education is all about. I shall quote to the House some comments that were made in 1975 about this whole area of education which has been written out of the definitions. Sombody has been kind enough to bring to my attention words spoken by  Senator Guilfoyle,  now Minister for Social Security. At page 195 1 of  Hansard  for 28 May 1975 she is recorded as saying: 
I welcome the way in which the Bill has been designed. 
I cannot quarrel with the honourable senator in that sense because my good friend and colleague, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was the architect of this Bill and that is acknowledged by everybody. The honourable senator went on to say: 
It recognises the need for different levels of function- the level of the State Councils for Union Training and the level of the Australian Council for Union Training. If we reflect on all the authorities, commissions and councils that have been established during the past 2 years or so, we find that we have been consistent in suggesting that at the State level there is need for activity to be recognised, and that at the Federal level aften there is need for recognition of State representation. It has taken the formation of the Trade Union Training Authority to put into practice the co-operative relationships that we have stressed should exist between State activities and the Federal co-ordinating activties. I welcome the fact that in relation to this Training Authority there is a recognition that there are different requirements in different States, and that co-ordination may be attempted at the Federal level by appointing people to represent the States. I think that this is the way in which any authority would function best. 
It is important to understand that a significant change has been made in the definition. Earlier tonight the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  made the point that it is difficult to bring definitions to the point where they can be understood unequivocally. The Bill lacks in that it no longer mentions the word education. Proposed new clause 3 (d) reads: 
By omitting the definition of 'trade union training' and substituting the following definition:   "trade union training" means technical or practical training capable of advancing and developing knowledge and skills in fields connected with the powers and functions of trade unions or the powers, functions and duties of officers or officials of trade unions; '. 
It leaves out the word education. Doubtless honourable members could have a long debate on what the word education means. For some reason or another the Government has deliberately excluded the word from the definition. There is much more to be said about the Bill because it goes into many other areas, but it seems to me that the thing we are arguing about here and now is the question of education. It seems that the Government, through the Minister, has decided that education is far too broad a term to be used in the definition of trade union training. I submit to the Committee that that is not the case, that perhaps education is a broad term but it has a real meaning in the general sense in the community. The definition contains the words 'technical or practical training'. I ask the Minister to tell me in his reply what technical and practical training means. Without the inclusion of the word education the whole concept of TUTA falls to the ground. It seems to be that of necessity the 
Trade Union Training Authority must carry with it a connotation of educational training. For reasons best known to himself, which the Minister has not made clear to me, to the peak councils, to the trade union movement generally, to TUTA or to the community, for some reason or other he has decided to exclude the word education. 
If the Minister does not believe that trade union training authorities, or, to be specific, the Trade Union Training Authority by its nature is an educational institution, let him say so. I believe that it is. It is part and parcel of the function of that Authority to educate people. I might have my own views on what education means and, if the Minister disagrees, perhaps he will tell me. It seems to me that if one if to advance people from one position to the next that, of itself, is education. The way he has drafted the Bill the Minister has denied to people the right to do that. He had denied to educationists the right to move people from one place to the other. In the Bill the Minister talks about technical or practical training. What does that mean? Does practical training mean that employers or their representatives will sit with employees in what I described earlier as a classroom scene? Is that not part of their education? How can the Minister exclude the word education? Is the Minister afraid of it? Does he want to burn books? Is that what he is about? My principal complaint is that the word education has been deleted from the definition in clause 3 (b). There is no justification for that and no explanation has been given by the Minister. 
I have read the Minister's second reading speech. Frankly it is the most deplorable second reading speech I have read since I have been a member of this House for a short period of only 9 years. During that time I have never read a more misrepresentative speech by a Minister on the second reading of a Bill than the one he made to the House. From my reading of the text books I understand that the function of a second reading speech is to outline the purpose of a Bill. I would be delighted if the Minister can tell me and the House that the second reading speech he made was even reflective of the matters in the Bill. 
The Committee is dealing only with clauses 1 to 7. Already we have determined that there is an area of inconsistency between the Bill and what the Minister told honourable members in his second reading speech. No House of Parliament, no House of Representatives of the people can tolerate that sort of situation. A need exists to have the word education restored to the Bill. There simply is no way one can take people from one position to another, and teach them to be something other than what they were, without educating them. Why is the Minister afraid of the word education? Why did he write it out of the Bill? I shall be delighted to hear his response to the most scathing comment made of him since he has been a Minister by one of the strongest membersme. He should respond to that and tell honourable members why he has written out the word education. 
-As the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  has suggested, the Minister should resign. I look forward to the Minister's response. 
-In the clauses we are now debating we are referring to the National Director. It seems that the National Director has been imposed above everybody in the whole Trade Union Training Authority. Clause 14 concerns the deletion of the Australian Council and the substitution of the National Director. I am at a loss to understand why the National Director who is an individual is being substituted for the Australian Council which is a group of people. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has not substituted the Executive Board. He has left the Authority in the hands of an individual, the National Director. Clause 14(b) states: 
. (aa) to provide such other training that is related to trade union training as the National Director determines. 
We do not even know who the National Director will be. We do not have a clue as to what his views on this matter may be. 
-Bob Santamaria. That is probably right. It could be Jack Manes. Clause 14 (2) states:   . . (a) To provide such courses of trade union training as the National Director determines; and 
to provide such other training that is related to trade union training as the National Director determines. 
As we go through the Bill we find that the National Director is a pretty important person. He is very powerful. He is omnipotent. Proposed new section 34(1) states: 
The Director - 
That is the Director of Studies-  shall be appointed by the National Director after consultation with the Executive Board and shall hold office on such terms and conditions (if any) in respect of matters not provided for by this Act as are determined by the National Director. 
The National Director will determine the studies. He will determine the courses. He will even determine the terms and conditions of the Director of Studies. Proposed new section 38(1) states: 
The National Director may terminate the appointment of the Director for misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity. 
So the Bill goes on. I ask the Minister whether we are now moving away from the concept of a group of people administering the Authority. My own view is quite clear and unequivocal that that group of people should be the Australian Council. If the Minister persists with his view that it should be the Executive Board I am afraid that his 'weight' will be stronger than mine in this place. I should prefer to see the Australian Council administering the Authority. I do not want it to be changed. If the Minister wants the Australian Council to remain why is he placing so much weight on the National Director? Is he willing to tell us now who will be the National Director? He must have it in his mind. Will it be Jack Manes? Will it be Bob Santamaria? The Minister has a responsibility to give us an indication as to who the National Director will be. I do not care who he will be. I do not believe that such dictatorial powers should be given to anybody. A new position of Director of Studies has been created, for a particular reason. The Director of Studies is very limited in what he is able to do. He can do only what the National Director says he can do. That is not on. Surely the Director of Studies must be responsible for his position. In some sense the Bill provides that. But always overriding him is the National Director and, according to the Bill, he will even determine what the conditions of employment of the Director of Studies will be. He will determine what the education system throughout the College will be. He will determine all of these things. He is a very omnipotent person and it would seem very wrong that such power should reside in such a person. 
If we turn to clause 2 1 we find that proposed sub-section (1) of proposed new section 51 provides: 
The National Director may arrange for persons with knowledge or experience in trade union matters or in matters relevant to the functions of the College or of a Trade Union Training Centre or to the instruction and training of persons in trade union matters, to assist, otherwise than on the basis of full-time employment, in the performance of the functions of the College or a Trade Union Training Centre, as the case may be. 
Goodness gracious, what does that all mean if we are unaware of the identity of the National Director? In whose opinion are persons to be said to have knowledge or experience in trade union matters and so forth? The Bill does not tell us that. As I said earlier, there are so many holes in this Bill that one could use it as a net for catching sprats. The holes are numerous and small. The Bill is designed to delude. It contains nothing that will give confidence in the Trade Union Training Authority. It is designed to destroy confidence. That is the Government's intention and I am quite sure that the Minister cannot answer in any way at all the propositions that I have raised; nor will he, I believe, attempt to do so. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Has the Treasurer seen reports in this morning's Press that there is to be a sharp relaxation of the Government's foreign investment guidelines? Will he say whether the Government intends to reduce the requirement for Australian holding in mining and industrial ventures from 85 per cent, as established by the Labor Government, to only 5 1 per cent? Will foreign controlled companies be given interim Australian status if they have only 25 per cent local ownership? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
With reference to the Minister's answer to question No. 1516  (Hansard,  1 October 1977, page 2199), is the Minister able to say whether on 3 March 1 978 the Victorian Minister for Health advised the Broadmeadows City Council that the Hospital and Charities Commission has a firm commitment with the Department of Administrative Services for the eastern end of the former Serum Laboratory land in Camp Road as the site for a future hospital in the Broadmeadows area. 
Did the Chief Property Officer of the Department of Administrative Services write to the Hospital and Charities Commission saying that he would be in contact again when he received the Commonwealth 's valuation. 
Is part of the land formerly occupied by the Serum Laboratories to be disposed of to the Hospital and Charities Commission; if so, (a) when was the decision made, (b) when were negotiations commenced, (c) at what stage are negotiations now, (d) when will negotiations be concluded and (e) what is the area and value of the land to be transferred. 
-Does the Prime Minister recall his assertion in last year's Liberal Party policy speech that his Government had, to use his words, 'taken politics out of pension increases by linking them automatically with the consumer price index'? If so, how does he reconcile this statement with his Government's decisions in last night's Budget to remove the automatic six-monthly indexation of pensions and unemployment benefits for those people without dependants? 
If the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  proved nothing else to me during the course of his address to this chamber he proved something that I have thought was so since the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  introduced his Budget last night. This is a bookkeeper's Budget which was never seen by an economist during its preparation. On two or three occasions the honourable member for Brisbane referred to the purpose behind the increase in the tariff on these items, and I interpolate that there are a lot of items, running through from ladies' sleepwear to passenger motor cars. We are not talking about the knitwear industry in isolation. The honourable member did not apologise in any way at all for this increase being just another rip-off to get another $65m into the Budget to try to balance the deficit that seems to be worrying the insides out of everybody. The honourable member tried to lock into that argument something to do with employment. 
Much as he might have disliked the period between 1972 and 1975, if we are going to talk about unemployment then I remind him that there are more people unemployed in Australia now, after three years of Liberal Government, than there were under the Labor Government. Fewer people were working and more were unemployedwhich is very significant- during the three years from 1975 to 1978 than there were during the three years from 1972 to 1975. 1 wish the honourable member had elaborated the point so that I could have been enlightened about how he intends to improve the employment situation- by that I mean getting people back to work- by increasing the price of certain imported goods by 12te per cent. He seems to believe naively another false assumption- one of the many on which the Budget is structured- that somehow the importers are going to pay the extra tariff over to the Australian Government, totalling an estimated $65m between now and the end of June. If I have copied his words correctly, he said also that at the present time imported goods have a mark-up of 500 per cent or 600 per cent and that they are then put into the retailers at a slightly lower price than that charged for locally manufactured goods. He went on to indicate that because of our expensive labour we have to be able to compete -a typical conservative speech. 
The honourable member then gave us a clear indication of how the market is expected to react. There is no doubt in my mind, and I have been around a long time, believe you me, that if a manufacturer or a merchant has the opportunity to increase his price and the market is prepared to pay, then those who are going to pay are the consuming public of Australia, the people who have to buy the imported goods. If there is such a capacity in the demand for goods in Australia, it strikes me as being very odd that this Government, which holds itself out unashamedly as a government of business, does not do something about getting industry in Australia active in order to take up the slack and cater for the demand for those goods that is now being met by imports. On the argument of the honourable member for Brisbane, the price of those goods is already being increased to a price above that of the locally manufactured goods, which seems to me to put the local manufacturer in a favourable position. But the Government has not said that. 
It took the Minister at the table, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  less than two minutes to introduce this measure into the House, and it has quite wide ramifications. It raises a number of questions. The 
Treasurer thought so little of it that he gave it three lines in his Budget Speech. How on earth does the Government expect us, the representatives of nearly half of the people in Australia, to understand something like that when it gives us so little information? How does it expect intelligent debate on a measure such as this when it gives us that sort of information? For example, the Government did not tell us whether the Industries Assistance Commission had considered the matter. In fact, by its silence it is clear that the Government has not done so. A unilateral political decision has been taken in the Cabinet room and legislation brought into the Parliament. The Government expects the support of its party to allow it to railroad this measure through the Parliament without it being thoroughly investigated. It is the purpose of the Industries Assistance Commission to look at matters of tariff, indeed it is a requirement that matters of tariff be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. In moving his amendment the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  made the point that in view of section 23(3) and section 23 (4) of the Act there ought to be an examination of this matter by the IAC, but there has not been. 
The honourable member for Adelaide also raised the problem of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. From a reading of that document, it seems that the Government is flying in the face of international agreements. There has been no consultation, simply an arbitrary decision taken in the Cabinet room and brought into this place as legislation. This Parliament has been misused, abused and prostituted again. It is expected to agree blindly with propositions that are put to it by a half-baked government that keeps coming in here with half-baked ideas that will not work. We would like to know, and I have already made this comment, what measures the Government will use. It uses the term 'monopoly profits', and I think that is a pretty interesting term. I would like to know what the Government means by that. If people are making monopoly profits in this country, why is the Government not doing something about it and getting its share of revenue from that area? Instead of doing that, it has increased the tariff by 12Vi per cent, which ultimately will be passed on to the consumer, on goods ranging from brandy and PVC-rubber coated garments through to footwear and motor cars. 
As far as motor cars are concerned, I had a bit of a giggle while listening to  AM  this morning when I heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  talking about the sales tax on locally manufactured cars being reduced and the price dropping by $500. When questioned about the increase in the price of petrol he said: '$500 will buy a lot of petrol. ' That is a beauty! He did not bother to say that the changeover price will be the same and nobody will get the $500. On the other side of the coin, imported vehicles will increase in price because of the 12!6 per cent increase in the tariff that the Government is determined to impose, as the honourable member for Brisbane has told us, so that it can balance its books by adding $65m between now and the end of June. He made the point that that is a lot of money. Apparently he is mesmerised by these things, like most bookkeepers, and is not prepared to look at the consequences for the Australian community and for the Australian consumer. 
No attention has been given by the Government to solving the problem at its source, that is, by increasing the capacity of Australian industry. I too have knitting mills in my electorate, as well as textile factories and a very large car manufacturer, the Ford Motor Co. All of those factories are operating under capacity. What is wrong with the Government doing something about getting those industries back to capacity? There would then be a lesser need for imports to come into the country. Surely the two things ought to go hand in hand. But have we heard anything about that? We heard not one word from the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in the one and a half minutes it took him to address this House. He had no time to elaborate. The honourable member for Adelaide in his response tonight took his full 30 minutes, and it was the best 30 minutes' worth of sense that I have heard in this House for a long time. 
-That is quite all right. The speech made by the Minister, and it was quoted to the House by the honourable member for Brisbane, told the House nothing. It treated the Parliament with contempt and certainly treated the Opposition with contempt. Many questions have been raised, and I have no way of knowing whether the Minister will rise tonight and answer those questions or whether he will just let this Bill go through. I think he has a responsibility to this Parliament to answer those questions, even at this late stage in the debate. It should be remembered that this matter was introduced into the Parliament only yesterday and the Opposition has had little time to study it. I could not be convinced that the Bill was prepared in one day, yet the Opposition is expected to debate it in one day. Again, utter contempt has been shown for the forms of this House and for the way in which parliaments- the people's forum- are supposed to operate. We have been treated with this same sort of contempt over the last three years and I guess that we will continue to be treated with contempt until we win government in 1980. 
At this late stage I urge the Minister to rise and to give the House some indication of why these measures are necessary; why it is essential, in the view of the Government, to impose a 12Vi per cent tariff increase on certain goods- the motor car industry, for example. If people are making windfall profits, to use the words of the Treasurer, why is the Government not instigating measures to tap those windfall profits? Furthermore, the threat of retaliatory action by our trading partners is not an unreal one. I would like to know from the Minister whether that matter has been considered and whether the Government has received assurances that there will be no such retaliatory action by our trading partners around the world. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, there is a lot more business before the House to be considered yet and I would be the last person to take up all my speaking time simply in order to take it up and to reiterate matters that have already been raised. I think I have made a scathing attack on the Government. I think the Government should resign but before that happens, I would like the Minister to stand up in this chamber and explain thoroughly what this matter is all about. 
The reason I rise tonight, and this has been done in this House on more than one occasion, is to pay tribute to the person who until recently was the honourable member for Werriwa. The Honourable E. G. Whitlam has moved out of this place without due homage being paid to him by both sides of the chamber. There are a number of circumstances in which fairly kind words are said about people in this chamber. I have been here long enough to know that when a Parliament is drawing to a close and it is known that a member of it is leaving, tributes are paid to him. I well remember a former honourable member for Murray, the Rt Honourable  Sir John  McEwen, leaving this chamber, and very kind words were said about that gentleman. All of those words were deserved by the honourable gentleman who was retiring. 
We have here a very unusual set of circumstances relating to a man who led this country to the greatest extremes of its development in the years from 1972 to 1975. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is at the table, seems to think that this is some sort of joke, but if he lives long enough, and I trust that he will, to read the views of historians who will write about this time then he will know the impact that this gentleman had on our country, a country of which I am terribly proud. Even if no other member of this chamber is proud of our country, I am very proud of it. I want to express my pride in this gentleman, the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, who took no pretence upon himself and who ignored all of the pretences taken by preceeding and succeeding Ministers in accepting foreign obligations. In my own humble way, and everybody in this chamber knows how humble I am when I pay homage to somebody, I want to say that I believe the honourable member for Werriwa, as he then was- Gough Whitlam; I will use no other expression than that- strode across this chamber as a man who is 10 feet tall. 
-A giant among political pygmies. He came into this chamber, learned how the Parliament worked, and then used the procedures available to him to make sure that this country had the best government it had ever had during the years from 1972 to 1975. There are more people in this House today than there were in 1972 who would say that that is not true, but history will judge those people also. For sheer mean political advantage they have taken a position that in my view is contrary to the constant and continuing development of our great nation. The man Whitlam came into this chamber at an earlier time, I think 1959 - 
-It was 1952; I am corrected. He strode across this chamber like a colossus. He showed the people of Australia the way ahead. Unfortunately, he was frustrated by a person named Fraser. I refuse to use the word man', being a male chauvinist. He was destroyed by a person named Fraser, who has taken this country on a road that will lead it to destruction. I come back to the man Whitlam. No homage can be paid in this chamber that is too great for that man who led this country, as the historians will tell us, even though some of those who sit here now do not understand, along a road that would have led us to salvation. If there is a messiah, and perhaps I do not believe in that, then the man Whitlam was a messiah. Never was it understood - 
I wish to bring a matter to the attention of the House. Earlier this month I was fortunate to attend the Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference in Bonn. I returned to Australia through Singapore to Sydney and finally to Melbourne, arriving at Melbourne at about 9 o'clock last Thursday, 2 1 September. The matter I wish to bring to the attention of the House is the appalling method used by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs or its officers at Melbourne Airport to clear passengers who are arriving in Australia or returning to Australia. I had been through health clearances in Sydney and I had to go through immigration and customs clearances in Melbourne. It took exactly one hour for me, standing in a queue- it was the same for all the other people there- to move  from one side of the barrier to the other. It was not as though there was a large number of passengers arriving at the same time. The aircraft in which I arrived had unloaded most of its passengers in Sydney. I hope that those people who disembarked in Sydney did not have the same experience. 
The reason I bother to raise this matter is that, having had the benefit of visiting a number of countries during my journey to Europe, I can say, without any fear of contradiction, that the worst port in the world for people to get through immigration clearances must be Melbourne Airport at Tullamarine. You know that I have a finely tuned sense of humour and that I am a very patient man,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I stood with great patience in the queue, with people from all parts of the world, for one hour waiting to get my passport checked. Exercising my fine wit to the customs officer- I do not think that he appreciated it- I simply made the comment: 'You know, it astounds me that we have bloody illegal immigrants in this country when a Federal member of Parliament has so much trouble getting back into it'. This situation ought to be corrected. It seems to me that a lot of unnecessary clerical work was being done on behalf of passengers by the immigration staff. Only four or five immigration officers were working at their posts. There were positions for another two or three officers, but the positions were not filled. 
It could be said that this is attributable to the cutback in funds and staff by the present Government. I can assure honourable members and anybody else who may be listening that it is not a very pleasant experience. I certainly am not at my best, as far as humour and wit are concerned, when I have spent a whole night sitting up in an aircraft from Singapore, spent one and a half or two hours walking around Sydney Airport waiting for the aircraft to depart to Melbourne, and then have suffered a delay of an hour- it was possibly more for some people- standing in a queue waiting to re-enter my own country. Heathrow airport at London has a far greater volume of people travelling through and being subject to its migrant procedures than Tullamarine in Melbourne ever would. Yet at Heathrow there was not one fraction of the delay that there was at Tullamarine in Melbourne. 
Being a native of the city of Melbourne and Melbourne airport being an international airport and a rather fine airport of which we are all very proud, it rather distresses me that the first impression that a very large number of people get when they arrive in our country is one of incompetence, bungling, of people standing in long queues for long periods of time simply waiting to have their documents processed in order to go past the barrier. As a consequence of the circumstances which I am relating people waiting outside to greet travellers stood around for more than an hour. As the door opened and people came through the Customs area the people outside flocked around hoping that it was the people for whom they were anxiously waiting. I hope that the Minister will take note of what has been said in the House tonight. He can check all the facts. He will find them accurate. I am sure it is not an isolated incident. I hope he will use his good offices to have that situation corrected on behalf of the returning Australians and on behalf of thousands and thousands of visitors who come through that international airport every year. 
The point that I want to take up in the House tonight is the matter that was raised by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this afternoon. The questions that were directed at the Prime Minister by the honourable member for Chifley, it seems to me as just a humble, ordinary member of this Parliament representing some 69,000 Australian people - 
-I join in this debate in support of the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  As the amendment was moved some time ago, to refresh the memories of honourable members I shall read it. It states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted: 
to maintain the present eligibility of members of the Defence Services for housing finance from the Defence Service Housing Corporation; 
to permit Parliament to maintain adequate scrutiny of the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme; 
because it introduces a fee for consideration of the application for a loan for the first time, thus increasing the cost to the applicant; 
) because it introduces a discriminatory preference system between those with eligibility based on war service, and 
because increased funds should be made available to restore the decline of SO per cent in real terms, over the last 3 years'. 
That amendment was moved by the honourable member for Reid on 17 August. It was rather prophetic in one sense. A little less than an hour ago this incompetent and bungling Government, which never seems to be able to put together a 
Bill correctly, distributed a document containing amendments to be moved by the Government to the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill 1978. It is a single sheet with a full page of printing on one side and half a page on the other. It outlines quite a number of amendments which are to be made to the Bill which is, in fact, an amendment to the Act. As I say, it is not uncommon for this sort of thing to happen with this incompetent Government. I do not blame the draftsmen. The reason is a lack of cohesion on the part of the Government. The document is a further indication of the Government's lack of competence. 
It seems to me that it is not in the best interests of informed debate in this Parliament if amendments such as these are circulated in the chamber less than an hour before the matter is to be debated. As honourable members are aware, attitudes have to be formed on these things and one can hardly pick up a document such as thisunless one is an Einstein; I do not profess to be one- and understand it One must refer to the parent Act before one is able to understand the amendments. Without the parent Act the amendments do not make a whole lot of sense. As I say, it is not the first time that this Government has done this sort of thing. It is not the first Bill that has had amendments made to it in this way. It is not the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  who is incompetent; it is the whole confounded Government. The honourable member for Reid was prophetic in saying that the Bill ought to be withdrawn and redrafted. So it should be. The Government concedes that the Bill should be redrafted; otherwise it would not have distributed amendments to its own amending Bill. 
I have always had a great deal of affection for this Act. It has been with us since 1 9 1 8- for some 60 years. In that long period of time it has always been regarded by servicemen- prior to 1 972 only by servicemen who had had active service in a war zone- as being almost part of their working conditions. Having joined the armed Services, they were eligible, under certain circumstances, to take up what were then known as war service home loans which always have been at rather favourable rates of interest and on favourable conditions. I do not think that there is any quarrel in the community about that. There is certainly no quarrel from me or from my party colleagues. The thing that we find rather difficult to understand is why such a scheme could not be expanded to encompass larger sections of the community than, as is the case now, exservicemen and ex-servicewomen. We firmly believe that this could be done. We proposed such action up until 1972. If we had been left in peace during the period 1972-1975, without having elections every 18 months, I am sure that we would have moved a lot closer to expanding this scheme in order to make it available to large numbers of people who, without that sort of assistance, will never be able to move into their own homes. 
This is another indication of where this cockeyed Government has gone off the rails, lt is taking a swipe at ex-servicemen on this occasion. The Labor Government said in 1972, and its statements became effective in 1973: 'We do not believe that there will be any more wars. We do not believe that Australian servicemen will be called out. They certainly will not be called out under the dishonest conditions under which they were called out in the 1960s to go to Vietnam. We hope that young Australian men will never be called upon to serve in an area of war again'. We acknowledge that there is a need for defence forces. As an incentive, it was said that those who served a period of three years in the armed Services would become eligible for a home loan. It was said that those who were undergoing their national service training at the time had the option of either leaving or, if they served out their term, being eligible for a home loan. 
This Bill states that the three-year period is far too short. It is effectively saying that these service men and women will serve nine years prior to becoming eligible for a loan. Servicemen or servicewomen become eligible after six years; but they must sign up for another term, which makes nine years of service. This action extends the eligibility provisions by at least three years. As I pointed out, it is a bit of a side swipe at the military personnel in this country. I think that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who already has bruised shins over the by-election in Werriwa last Saturday, would do well to read the results of the election. For the first time ever, the successful Labor Party candidate,  Mr John  Kerin, who wiped the floor with his opponents, won the Ingleburn Army camp booth and won it substantially. Not only has the general community a lack of confidence in this Government to do things right- I pointed out that it cannot even draft a Bill properly- but also it knows that the Government is having another side swipe at military personnel who last Saturday in a byelection indicated quite clearly that they are fed up to the back teeth with this Government. The sooner the Government gets itself out of office, the happier a lot of people in Australia will be. 
The Bill is not all bad. I would not want it to be thought that I oppose things just for the sake of opposing them. I compliment the Government on clause 3, which deals with de facto relationships that exist between men and women by choice. The Bill will ratify these sorts of arrangements and will acknowledge that the de facto relationship between a man and a woman is as solid and as strong as the normally accepted relationship of marriage. That oversight, I think, should have been corrected a long time ago. I pay credit to the Government for taking the initiative in that area and correcting the oversight. I am afraid that that is about as far as I can go in giving credit. 
I see no good reason for any sort of charge upon people who apply for a loan. Such a charge has never been levied in the past. This Bill introduces a fee for consideration of an application. The Bill does not explain why such a move is necessary; to me it is an unnecessary impost. The Bill, in my opinion, places too much responsibility with the Defence Service Homes Corporation and takes the administration of the scheme away from parliamentary scrutiny to a very large extent. Features of the Act which require approval of the Parliament and of the Minister will now be handed over to somebody who is not altogether under the control of this Parliament or answerable to it, as is a Minister. We need to revert to a position where Parliament is able to maintain adequate scrutiny of the defence service homes insurance scheme. It is very important that the matter be looked into. 
Members of the Government with which we have been saddled for the last two years- they have only two years to go; we will be rid of them then- seem to do nothing else but sit up in the evenings and go through the books. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is acknowledged as the greatest bookkeeper in Australia. He would not be a Treasurer's bootlace, but he is a pretty good bookkeeper. He sits up all night going through his books, with his little pocket calculator, trying to find out where he can lop another shilling off the boys who sell newspapers on street corners or where he can tax the incomes of handicapped people at 66 per cent, which is an even higher rate of taxation than I pay- and I am not a highly paid member of the community. He does all these little exercises. Anywhere he can find somebody on crutches he kicks the crutches out from under them. He takes great delight in letting down the pneumatic tyres on old ladies' wheelchairs. He sits up all night dreaming up these little schemes. He has even treated this area like a bookkeeping exercise. Never is any account taken of the social effect on people. That, to me, is a very bad thing. Government ought to be about people and not about sitting up with columns of figures and pocket calculators trying to make the red column balance against the black one. 
The Opposition finds a number of features of this Bill most distasteful. No explanation is given- I do not think the Government intends to give one- as to why it has never restored the decline in funds in real terms of 50 per cent over the last three years. The Government does not tell us- I suppose that it is pretty obvious- why it wants to extend the period of service from six years to nine years. 
The Government also does not explain a very curious feature where for the first time people are divided into classes. If my memory serves me correctly proposed new section 27B allows the Corporation to determine the order in which advances are made to applicants in accordance with priorities determined on the basis of their division into different classes or where particular circumstances apply. Is this Government again contemplating sending young Australian men to a war that is not ours, a war that belongs to somebody else and which is fought at the behest of somebody else? If not, what sort of classes are we talking about? It is pretty clear to me that what is implied in proposed new section 27B is that the Government anticipates that situation. It will then give preference to those who go off to any dirty, grubby little war in which it manages to get Australia involved. For the first time it will divide people into classes. 
At the moment the Act does not provide for classes of people. Servicemen and women who serve for three years and then re-engage are eligible for a defence service homes loan. Why does the Government want to change that? Why does it want to fiddle around with it? If there is nothing ulterior in what it wants to do why does it not tell us why it is doing it? Why has it now brought in at a very late hour these new amendments to its own amending Bill? It would be a job for a Philadelphia lawyer to listen to the debate that has taken place in the House and sort out the amendments without having reference to the parent Act. The Government has done some pretty strange things in relation to this Act as far as I can see. I am quite sure that Opposition members are studying this Bill to see what sort of effect it will have. It seems to me to be sheer incompetence on the part of this Government. 
The Government talks about amending a section of the Act to exclude a whole host of people. I wonder why it has done this. Perhaps in his closing remarks- if he intends to close the debate- the Minister will give some explanation of why further amendments to the Government's own amending Bill have suddenly become necessary. Until that is done- I very much doubt that it can be done in the time left for this debate- I strongly urge the Minister to withdraw the Bill, send it back to whoever was responsible for drafting it, get it redrafted and get it into shape. Frankly, the only way it can be got into shape is by leaving it the way it is. Rather than withdrawing the Bill and redrafting it, it ought to be withdrawn and shredded. There is no need for it. The Act itself is functioning quite well at the moment. The only thing that is not functioning well is the availability of funds and the waiting period service people must go through before they receive their loan. 
I have read all the contributions that have been made on this matter. I think that the honourable member for Reid, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les johnson)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  summed up the matter very well. Each in his turn gave a scathing indictment of this Government and its incompetence. I do not think that I can add very much to what they said. I urge the Minister to take note of the Opposition's amendment. Rather than withdrawing and redrafting the Bill I think that he should withdraw it and shred it. 
The matter that I wish to raise tonight in the adjournment debate is the Government's proposition to tax accrued long service leave at the ordinary rate of 33  W  per cent. Normally I would probably agree - 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of the acute and growing concern of Health Insurance Commission employees about their future following the Budget statements- statements now almost two months old- on Medibank? Will the Minister make a detailed statement on the employment prospects of the staff of Medibank? Will the Minister give an unqualified assurance that no staff member currently employed by Medibank will be unemployed or under-employed after 1 November as a result of the Government's Budget decision concerning Medibank? 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: What was the legal opinion given to him by the Attorney-General which led to his order for the extraordinary raid on the premises of ACTU Jetset Travel Services Pty Ltd on 14 October? Will the Minister table the full text of that opinion? 
Many members of trade unions and their families in this country will be able to enjoy overseas travel because of the initiative and industry of  Mr R.  J. Hawke and the organisation of which he is the head- the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Scurrilous allegations have been made in the House that there are irregularities in the arrangements of ACTU Jetset Travel Services Pty Ltd. Even worse still, it is alleged, on the basis of no evidence, that the funds of various trade unions are being plundered to provide the discount for those travelling through the ACTU scheme. Character assassination of people who are not members of this House and who therefore are unable to respond in the forum where the unfounded allegations are made seem to be the order of the day for Government members. 
Without indictment or trial, one of the most responsible and respected persons in this community,  Mr Bob  Hawke, has been vilified in a way which would warrant successful legal action if the words were spoken outside the umbrella of privilege that this House provides. Wild emotive expressions such as 'laundered money', 'unionists' funds and fees', 'blackmail', 'blatantly threatening standover tactics', 'illegal money'what the hell illegal money is I don't know- and a whole host of wild assertions are used to try to denigrate the name and character of Bob Hawke. 
It seems that  Mr Hawke  cannot express a view of his own or of the 2 million-odd workers he represents without those with inferior intellects interpreting his words- any words no matter how factual or representative of those who support him and in whatever sense he uses them- as threats. The paranoia of honourable members opposite is such that they no longer listen to reason and cannot heed a warning but must interpret any warning given in the interest of industrial peace as a threat and, indeed, blackmail. The most scurrilous attack is the comparison by inference of  Mr Hawke  with  Mr Peter  Huxley. It is quite clear that the inference is that  Mr Bob  Hawke is an embezzler. The best information I can obtain is that Peter Huxley was quite a prominent person in New South Wales and was finally gaoled for embezzlement. I am sure that that is not the sort of statement that any honourable member of this House would make outside of this chamber; yet it has been made inside. To me it is the most cowardly and scurrilous attack that anybody could ever make on an individual, particularly when the individual, Bob Hawke, has endeavoured to do something on behalf of the people of this country and to provide them with an opportunity to travel overseas. 
Further attacks were made on the man's character. It was even suggested that he would be responsible for a large number of employees of Qantas Airways Ltd losing their employment. 
-It is terrible, as the honourable member for Griffith says, that people in this community who are trying to do the right thing by those they represent, who are providing leadership and initiative and establishing enterprises in the community, should be subjected to such vilification without any substance whatsoever. Evidence is contained in a newspaper of the raid on the headquarters of the organisation on Saturday. It is now only Tuesday of the following week. No evidence has been presented to this House that anything illegal was involved, yet this attack has been made. A very responsible member of the community has been vilified and held up to ridicule. 
As I said earlier, were these comments made by these gallant and honourable gentlemen outside this chamber the results would be altogether different. It is quite noteworthy that it is only under the umbrella of privilege that this House has traditionally extended to its members that these attacks and reflections on people's characters are made. I think the most disgraceful aspect of the matter is likening  Mr Hawke  who has done more for the trade unionists of this country than anybody else to a well known embezzler from New South Wales. I think that sort of comment deserves an unconditional apology to a man of the character of  Mr Hawke. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I listened with interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter). His  speech was almost like a guided tour through Disneyland. It was out of touch with reality in regard to the actions which the Government ought to be taking, in his opinion, and is not taking. He spoke euphorically as if there is no conflict between the goals of employers and employees. He spoke about co-operation between employer and employee. Surely the honourable gentleman must know that the aims of both are quite incompatible in a number of areas. If he were quite sincere in what he said, namely, that there is co-operation in this area, I do not suppose we would need the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. If there had been complete cooperation, the workers and the unions over the years- indeed, over the centuries- would not have had to strive as hard as they had to strive in order to obtain paid annual leave, to obtain paid sick leave and to maintain an earning rate which would enable them to purchase the goods that they make. 
The honourable member also spoke about staggered working hours, staggered working days and staggered working weeks. That is not a new concept. For most of my life I worked in the milk industry. It is an industry which operates seven days a week. I never quite knew when the weekends arrived. We worked six days straight and had one day off. The day off rotated through the week, so I did not have the same day off each week. I might add that a very large section of our community works in this way. I refer to people who drive trains, buses and taxis, as well as waiters in restaurants and all sorts of other workers who provide us with services when we are not working. That sort of proposal has not done much towards solving the problem in the past. There is a great deal of doubt in my mind as to whether such a proposal should be introduced in the future. 
I believe there is a great need for job creation programs. There can be no doubt about that. We are considering the estimates of three departments, namely the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity. I had hoped that these estimates would provide the vehicles for job creation programs. Unfortunately, our friend from Barker threw a nice big bucket of cold water over that one too, because he said that there is no need for the Government to throw money at the unemployed by expanding its public works programs. If I correctly wrote down his remarks, that is what he said. It would seem to me that the expansion of the public works programs is the very priming of the pump that is needed, as Keynes explained to us. It would certainly stimulate a very large section of the community. 
The honourable member made the point that the Budget strategy was widely accepted. I do not think that the electors of Werriwa, or the electors who went to the polls quite recently in New South Wales, or, I am sure, the electors in the Ballarat province who will go to the polls on Saturday week, are quite as confident about the success of the Budget strategy and the acceptance of it as is the honourable member for Barker. The need for job creation programs is a very real one. I have already mentioned the expansion of public works programs in this regard but the Government can take the initiative in a number of other areas. Unfortunately we are saddled with a government which professes to be a free enterprise government and which believes that there should be no government interference in the market place, that the mysterious forces of the market place will take care of everything. With the exception of the troglodytes who are in government in this nation, that is known in every country to be bunkum. It has not worked anywhere. There is not a government in the world that does not intervene in the market place. As long as this Government maintains this lofty attitude of non-interference we will have the sort of stagnation that we have at the moment. 
We hear some pretty strange ideas. Quite recently the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  produced a document entitled 'Productivity Profile'. I cannot find the appropriation for that publication in the estimates for his Department; I suppose some appropriation has been made for it. I read in the blurb that accompanies the document- I am reading from Volume 1 , No. 1 -that this is to be a regular news letter to unions and to industry. It will be of great interest to them and, we trust, provide some sort of a stimulus for them. The first page of the document is headed 'Message From the Minister'. I am just wondering how much the Minister for Productivity knows about the subject, because the very first sentence reads: 
Productivity improvement is a concept not generally understood by employers, employees, the unions or the community. 
There is nobody left who does understand it. He says that employers do not understand it, the employees do not understand it, the unions do not understand it and the community does not understand it. I do not know who understands the concept of productivity improvement. Perhaps only the Minister himself understands it. He went on to say in the document: 
Governments, management and unions, pre-occupied with short-term solutions to problems in industry - 
I am not sure that that is altogether true; I am not sure that unions are as interested in the problems of industry as they are in ensuring that the employees in industry receive a fair share of their contribution towards productivity- have given productivity improvement little attention as a means of solving medium and long-term problems. 
The next sentence is a real boomer. It states: 
Yet the production of more goods and services at a lower or constant unit cost- which is what productivity improvement is all about- is the key to a rising standard of living for all Australians. 
What a lot of bunkum that is. He is saying that if we gear up our factories, put in more machines, work longer hours or do all the things that are necessary- if we use more resources and produce more goods- somehow or other, mysteriously, we will all enjoy the benefit of a rise in our standard of living. Somebody forgot to mention what happens at the other end of production. I am referring to what is called distribution. What I am saying is that there is little point in manufacturing goods and storing them in warehouses. That will not improve the standard of living of anybody. If goods are manufactured in greater volume and at a lower cost, markets have to be found. It seems a very sad state of affairs- I believe that in Australia we are seeing only the tip of this iceberg- that because of all the goods that are manufactured around the world the markets are almost completely saturated in terms of those who can afford to buy the goods. There is a vast market in the world; there is an enormous number of people who need goods. For example, one would not have to be a super salesman to sell refrigerators in South East Asia, but one would have to be something of a water diviner to be able to find people with the money to pay for them. So there is this problem of distribution and it is a real problem. 
My honourable friend from Barker spoke about investment allowances. That is great! We already have half a million people unemployed in Australia. He is suggesting that we make it very attractive to industry to put in more labour saving machines so that it can employ fewer people. That seems to me to have been the philosophy adopted by this Government over the last three years. It is not the solution to the problem. I am not a Luddite; nor do members of the trade union movement say that technology should not advance. In fact, one would find that members of the trade union movement, more than anyone else in this community want technology to advance quickly. They have a philosophy similar to that which I hold, and that is that man was not born to work but was born to have the work done for him. In the past he has used animals and machines to do his work. That is why he has intelligence. That is why he does not walk with his elbows on the ground. There is absolutely nothing wrong with the complete production of goods by machinery. 
Again we come to the question of the distribution of wealth that is created. With the use of machinery this will be no less a problem. Whether the work is done by men or machines, there is a need for that wealth to be distributed equitably in the community. We all know what will happen under the capitalist masters. They will accumulate all of the funds and leave the rest of the community to struggle along on social welfare. Their philosophy will destroy them because they are the people who say that we should not be taxing these people and that everybody who earns a dollar ought to have the right to determine how he will spend that dollar. If they think the people who own the methods of production are philanthropists they have another think coming. 
The whole question is very complex. It will need a resolution very quickly. If the industrialised countries do not solve this problem the army of have nots will get larger and larger, not only in Australia but around the world. I am completely satisfied that those people are not content to sit under oak trees, twiddle their thumbs and think about the matter. The time is coming when they will act; and they will act in concert. All of the dreadful things that will happen between now and the turn of the century will be on the heads of those people who at the moment are doing nothing about solving the problem that confronts this and other industrialised countries. 
It is always a delight to follow the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr). His  absolute paranoia about the trade union movement comes through in every speech that he makes in this House. We had hoped that in the 10 minutes in which he addressed us we were going to get some sort of indication of what the Government intends to do about solving the unemployment problem. It would seem that the honourable member for Wilmot has now discovered the truth of something that often has been said to him since 1975 when he first became a member of this House- that unemployment is a social problem. That is an incredible discovery. I would like to reply to some of the honourable member's comments. He used the old caper of Phil Lynch, the honourable member for Flinders, and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who always say that ever increasing wage levels are aggravating the unemployment situation. That is very easy to say and it is a little difficult to refute but it rather overlooks the real facts of the matter. The honourable member for Wilmot stated the real facts finally when he said that increased mechanisation and advances in technology are keeping kids out of work. That is the key to the problem. It would not matter what wage rates are being paid to people. At no time in the past have wage levels had an effect on the level at which employers will employ people. Nor will they have an effect in the future. 
I will advance that argument a little further. I think we ought to have a look at what actually happens. Somebody at some time invests his capital and establishes a factory to manufacture goods. After manufacturing those goods he sets about finding a market for them. The market is successful and he sells the goods at a higher price that it cost him to manufacture them. Therefore the operation is profitable. Surely that operation is pretty basic I think that everybody in the community, perhaps with the exception of the honourable member for Wilmot, would have sufficient intelligence to understand that that is exactly what happens from day to day in all the factories in Australia and around the world. Employers employ as many people as they need to produce the volume of goods that they wish to produce so that they can then sell them and get the whole system going again. 
Whether wage rates are up or down is completely irrelevant. They are not- I repeat they are not- of any significance in this country. If people care to compare wage rates paid in Australia with the slave wage rates paid in some other countries they must answer this question: How is it that countries such as West Germany, the United States, Japan and a number of others with wage rates comparable to ours are still able to proceed and do what they want to do? So there is no validity in the argument about ever increasing wage levels adding to the level of unemployment. The same argument applies to kids being paid full wages. That is a completely irrelevant matter. The honourable member thinks that married women go to work just to wear out their old clothes. He ignores the fact that in most cases- certainly it is the case in my electorate- if married women are working they are doing so to sustain the income of the family and not to keep kids out of work. If they were to move away from their present employment the whole family would go down the drain. 
I would rather take up the theme that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  put to us tonight. He was quite correct, as he generally is. He was on the ball and followed the whole theme through. This Community Youth Support Scheme that the Government put to us, is a charade. That is known by everybody. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  should know that the Community Youth Support Scheme in the city of Broadmeadows, which is a very prominent city in my electorate, is a charade. He has been told so by the people who have been responsible for managing it. They have suffered nothing but frustration in their endeavours and their attempts. The whole purpose of the CYSS, as it is euphemistically called, is to make sure that young people leaving school are work oriented. I do not know what that means; somebody must know. In the city of Broadmeadows a host of people, for a long time and at great expense to themselves in terms of money and loss of recreation, have endeavoured to make this CYSS scheme work. It has not worked. The guidelines are restrictive. 
A group in Sunbury, another prominent centre in my electorate, who wished to set up a project under the CYSS scheme, were told by the State organisation that that just was not on. There were no funds available to the kids in that town. We are talking about at least two towns in Victoria with a very high percentage of young unemployed people. The people in Sunbury, with the best of intentions, wished to set up a CYSS project. Poor as I might think it is, at least it is a band-aid job. However, they were told by this Government, with its great compassion for unemployed young people, that funds just were not available. The people in Broadmeadows are able to work only from month to month, six months at a time, because they have been told that there is no guarantee that funds will be available in six months time. They are very conscientious and very well trained people, but they have now packed it in and said: 'We are not going to live this sort of life. We also have some sort of commitment to make and we are not going to live six months at a time because it is impossible for this Government to make up its mind.' They have now wound up the whole project. I am not convinced that the CYSS is the answer to the problem of the young unemployed but at least it was some sort of effort, and because of the inability of this Government to make a commitment even that has gone by the board. 
In relation to the other schemes, again I agree with the honourable member for Port Adelaide. There is a scheme whereby employers are paid a sum of money- I think it is some 50 per cent of award wages- for the employees they put on, but not necessarily for job creation. No attempt has been made in the estimates for this Department, nor indeed in the whole of the Budget documents, to do anything about job creation. I suppose that 'job creation ' is a nice phrase. It sounds good. The Government has picked it up and intends to use it as much as it can, but nothing positive is being done. The honourable member for Wilmot said that a lot of suggestions had been made but they had never been followed through. He happens to be on the Government side of the chamber. It is no good him coming into this Committee and bleating and weeping in the way that he and his colleagues generally do about the inactivity of this Government when they have it in their hands to do something about it. 
Their party meeting last Wednesday took a long time. It is very seldom that I pay credit to members of the Liberal Party, but tonight I am going to make an exception and pay credit to the  Speaker  of this chamber,  Sir Billy  Snedden. If the Press reports are correct, he came forward with a solution to the problem. I understand that it did not get very far in the Liberal Party room, but they did meet until 1.15 p.m. that day whereas normally they give up at about 12.45 p.m. So for about half an hour there was a decent old blue going on in the Liberal Party room. I am not privy to those sorts of discussions but I notice that the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  is laughing his head off, so apparently his favourite horse got up. I would like to have been a fly on the wall at that meeting. 
-I should imagine that it was very interesting, and that is why I wish I had been a fly on the wall. The important thing that appeared in the Press report on Thursday morning- this morning- is that the person who to all intents and purposes is above party politics, the  Speaker  of this House, a man I hold in very high reverence, made the only sensible suggestion that was made in the Liberal Party room yesterday. He said: 'If you are going to create work in this country then pump your money into public works', and he is quite right. The Government could apply the funds that it has available, although this sort of approach does not always need funds. If it provided that sort of incentive, if it got the construction industry working again, I ask everybody to examine the multiplier effect of that. I am not talking only about those terrible building worker blokes, such as Norm Gallagher and the rest of them, I am talking about a whole host of people who make carpet and lino and drapes - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Tonight I want to do something that is slightly out of character with my actions since I have been in this place. I might add that I have been here nine years today. I wish to congratulate the Government, in particular the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  The reason I do this is that for a long period I have been - 
-Yes, over nine years, as a matter of fact. I have been pressing, on behalf of  Mr Michael  Anderson, who lives at Tullamarine and who is a deaf mute, for a communications system for  Mr Anderson  and people like him so that they do not have to be in physical contact with one another or within sight of one another in order to communicate. I am sure that every honourable member in this House would agree with me that to be unable to use a telephone is not a joking matter. If one suffers from these disabilities, it is not a jocular matter to be required, if one wishes to communicate with somebody on the other side of the city- and Melbourne is a large city- to drive one's car or to take another form of transport to come within sight of the person with whom one wishes to communicate. 

 Mr Anderson is a very active man within his own community- that is, the deaf community in Victoria- and he brought to my attention the fact that there are devices available, not yet in Australia but overseas, whereby people who are completely deaf and those who are deaf and mute can communicate with one another via a telephone using a teletype system. I was very pleased on Thursday night of last weekotherwise I would have raised this matter earlier- to receive a letter from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications referring to my earlier representations on this matter. The Minister tells me that Telecom Australia has completed the evaluation of the telephone typewriter units and that for technical reasons the units are not suitable for use over the Australian telephone network. That, of course, is regrettable. He said that arrangements are being made, however, to carry out modifications to overcome the present technical problems. That is laudable. I pay great credit to the very fine technicians of Telecom Australia, but by putting together all the technical advice that is available to us it would seem to me that it is not beyond the bounds of possibility for these people to be provided with equipment that can be attached to their telephones to enable them to communicate with their peers and their fellows who live in distant places. Any effort that can be made by government employees or by Telecom to bring this equipment to the point where it can be used as quickly as possible must be encouraged by the Government, by this House and by the whole community. Whilst not wishing in any way to write down the impact on other people of their deformities, I think that the inability to communicate is a very grave problem. I will quickly read the third paragraph of this letter. The Minister went on to say: 
As this type of equipment offers a new mode of communication in Australia extensive field research has been necessary to assess the impact of social, economic and technological factors on the users, in particular the deaf, and the degree of change required in their present communication patterns. The co-operation of the Adult Deaf Society of Victoria has been of great assistance in this project. When the investigation of these units has been completed, detailed information will be distributed through relevant organisations. 
I simply close by paying credit to the Minister, to those who preceded him and to those technicians in Telecom who are working out the technical details to make this sort of instrument available to the thousands of deaf people throughout Australia who at the moment, as I say, must be within eyesight to communicate. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports that Miss Barbara Biggs, recently involved in an industrial dispute with the Tramways Board in Melbourne, entered Australia from New Zealand and that her passport is faulty. 
Did Miss Biggs come to or return to Australia from another country; if so, from which country. 
Does Miss Biggs possess an Australian passport; if not, which country issued her passport. 
Are there any irregularities in Miss Biggs' passport or other travel documents. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the fact that it took a passenger one hour to pass through the immigration procedure at Tullamarine Airport, Vic, on Wednesday, 20 September 1978, at approximately 9 a.m. 
If so, were the officers on duty performing clerical work on behalf of passengers. 
) Was that morning typical of all arrivals. 
Will he consider making the entry cards easier to understand and have them printed in a number of languages as most other countries do. 
What other measures will he take to correct the situation. 
Does the same delay occur at Sydney KingsfordSmith Airport. 
-The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  who has just resumed his seat has, in the short time he has been here, gained a reputation for being a two bob each way merchant. Tonight, he showed that loudly and clearly. In his speech tonight he launched an attack on the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  If a comparison is to be drawn between the two in their knowledge of the law- I know where I will put my money. I am not a betting man but I would put my money right on the nose of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. After the great dissertation that the honourable member gave us he tried to discredit the very sound and well placed argument of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. These changes in the guidelines for the Australian Legal Aid Office will disadvantage a lot of people in our community. The honourable member for Denison tried to justify the changes but he could not explain how the imposition of $20 before anybody gets a start will not disadvantage people. I do not know whether the honourable member lives in an affluent area; but, if he lived in an area like Burke, he would know that there are a lot of people in a lot of trouble, who -just do not have $20 in their pockets. 
I move on from that point and quote from the speech made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  The Attorney-General said: 
Accordingly, a minimum contribution of $20 will be imposed in all cases . . . 
-I am surprised at the honourable member for Denison. He is a man of the law and a person knowledgeable in the use of the English language; yet he continues to shout down people in this chamber who express a view contrary to his own. As a simple layman in this area and probably the best truck driver in Australia, I explain to him that my knowledge of the English language happens to be greater than his. I quote the AttorneyGeneral's words to him: 
Accordingly, a minimum contribution of $20 will be imposed in all cases subject to such demonstrated hardship. 
-Hang on. The honourable member went through a great song and dance about disposable income. He seemed to think that a gross income that exceeded $ 100 a week was a pretty good deal in this country. Let me remind the honourable member that a person can earn $ 100 a week in this country and still starve. Yet the honourable member thinks that $ 100 a week is a great deal. 
The reason why Lionel Murphy, now  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy, a judge of the High Court of Australia, introduced this set-up when he was Attorney-General- it was opposed by the conservatives and Tories who sat opposite us- was that he knew as well as we in the Labor Party knew that there were people in our community who were being denied justice because they had no shekels in their pockets just as there were people in our community who were being denied health care because they could not afford it. Those who sat opposite us then and who sit opposite us now adopt exactly the same course. It seems to me that the profession is the thing that counts. It would seem also that the basic human rights of equality before the law and equal access to the courts cannot be attained without an adequate system of legal aid. That is axiomatic. The honourable member for Denison can shake his head until it falls off, but he cannot deny that that is the truth. Let me put a little piece of simple, home-spun philosophy to him. He would not know of the very large number of people in Australia who, needing legal assistance, in the past would not have been prepared to go near a practising lawyer because they could never be sure how much it was going to cost them. 
-He may have done something and he may not have done something; however, that is for the court to decide. A man cannot be adjudged guilty or innocent because he has no funds available to him with which to obtain advice or representation. So, if justice is to prevail, access to people who are able to give advice, not judgment, ought to be free. I know people who have spent time in prison but should not have spent time there. They are people who have accepted fines in a magistrate's court but should not have accepted them. Those fines would never have been imposed had reasonable legal representation been available to those people. But it was not available and these people were always afraid of the lawyers. They were afraid to go near them because they could never be sure how much it would cost them in the long term. In a pragmatic way they said: 'It is probably cheaper to cop 10 days in the can or to pay the fine than to pay what it would cost me for legal representation, and I may not win anyhow'. These sorts of things are not understood by those on the other side of this chamber, and they ought to be. If they were, those on the other side would know that what I am saying is the truth. 
The honourable member for Denison made this comment: 'These measures are saving the Government a million dollars a year in the administration of the Australian Legal Aid Office '. He then went on to say - 
-The honourable member can read it in  Hansard,  because I copied his words down as quickly as I could write them while he was speaking them. The honourable member said that $lm worth of legal aid would be made available for the pensioners of Australia, meaning an extra million dollars worth of legal aid for the pensioners of Australia. Does he mean by that that the pensioners of Australia are now being denied legal aid because the Government is not prepared to make the extra funds available? Is that what he means by that? It seems to me that the honourable member is hoist with his own petard. In endeavouring to play both ends against the middle, the honourable member for Denison has made these foolish statements. It is an attribute for which he has been noted since he came into the Parliament. I also point out to him that as at this minute there are 1,500 to 2,000 people in Victoria who have been told that their cases cannot proceed because of lack of funds. Is that not lovely? There are 1,500 to 2,000 people in Victoria who have been brought before the courts and are not in a position to defend themselves. Yet they have been told that they cannot receive representation because of the lack of funds. Their rights have been suspended. I think everybody- that is, everybody except the honourable member for Denison- knows that justice delayed is justice denied. 
Curiously enough, quite a number of my friends are lawyers. I am not prejudiced against anybody. They have come to me and said: 'If you have people in your electorate who are in trouble, refer them to me'. Why should the people in my electorate go cap in hand to a lawyer who is prepared to act for them at no cost because he believes that they cannot afford to pay him? Why should the people in my electorate have their dignity stripped from them in this way by accepting charity? I am very pleased that there is an office of the Australian Legal Aid Office in my electorate. It was opened by Kep Enderby when he was Attorney-General. I was present, when it was opened. It was a great day. Since that time the people of my electorate have had proper representation, and now the Government wants to take that away from them. It is going to have a hell of a fight it it tries to close that office in Glenroy; I can tell it that now. There is no way in the world that I would agree to people in my electorate going back to the position of having to go cap in hand to lawyers or, alternatively, having to go to the various legal aid services where all they get is deferred payment. They do not get any free service out of the lawyer organisations in the States. They get the services and have their payments deferred, but they have to pay for them in the long run. As far as I am concerned, there will be a retention of the legal aid service as it exists. This Government stands condemned for cutting back funds in this area. The honourable member for Denison stands condemned in the eyes of the community for supporting the Government in its actions. 
Having destroyed the arguments of the honourable member for Denison, there are a couple of other matters that I want to raise. In reading through the estimates, I And that in 1977-78 we provided $9,950,000 for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, our own home-grown keystone cops organisation. Those guys spent all that; so this year we are going to provide them with $12,552,000. As far as I can work out, that is a 33 W per cent increase on what ASIO received last year. Does that mean that men from that Organisation can now go to ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd every Saturday morning and clean it out? Is ASIO going to put on more spoofs in order to go there and clean out that travel service? Nobody has explained why we need a one-third increase in our spy force. 
-As I am reminded by my friend, the honourable member for Lalor, it is probably for overtime for Saturday morning work in going and cleaning up the ACTU Jetset Travel Service. I think an explanation ought to be given of why these extra funds - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In accordance with his repeated calls to Australians for austerity and sacrifice, will he order the abandonment of proposals to purchase two luxury 120- passenger Boeing 727-100 jet liners or two 149-passenger Boeing 707 jet liners for his personal use on overseas travel? Will he make do with the existing fleet of VIP jet aircraft as an example to the nation? 
-I take the unusual course of congratulating the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  on the rational way in which he presented his case to the House today. It is regrettable that it had no substance but he did present it in a rational way. It was rather remarkable to find that his attitude towards this very complex subject is very different from that of his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and, indeed, very different from that of most of his ministerial colleagues and vastly different from that of a lot of those members who sit on the back bench on the Government side of the House. In fact, if the Prime Minister were as rational and as reasonable on this whole matter as the Minister for Productivity who is sitting at the table perhaps many of the difficulties that have arisen in this country over the last three years would not have arisen. But we are not confronted with dealing with the Minister for Productivity. When the nation is confronted with this problem we must face up to the fact that the person who will dominate the scene in that area is the Prime Minister. He will inflict on other Ministers his will to beat the work force of this country. 
I was pleased that the Minister had enough common sense not to mention the work force pricing itself out of the labour market through constant increases in wages. The Minister is intelligent enough to know that, were there no increases in wages, there would still have been the development of miniaturisation, computerisation, mechanisation, advances in technology or whichever term we care to use. I place on record that I am not a Luddite. I do not advocate that we should smash the machines. They should be used to the advantage of mankind, but unfortunately in the situation which is arising they will be used only for the benefit of those who claim ownership of them. That point has been made quite clearly. In fact, it is almost as obvious as Peter Nixon at a diplomats' ball that what is happening in Australia at the moment is that large numbers of people are being made surplus to the work force because of the introduction of new, modern, less labour intensive machinery aided and abetted by the present Government. 
We have been told that there will be this curious thing known as an investment allowance which will encourage employers to replace the machinery in their factories, machinery which at the moment is underemployed and underused, with new machinery. Of course, new machinery is far more advanced than the machinery it replaces, and the whole trend of machinery is to dispose of labour. So the new machines are less labour intensive than those that went before them. We see this vicious cycle of people being encouraged to put in machines to do the work that previously people used to do. The Prime Minister made what I thought was a rather laborious point about job creation as a result of new oil discoveries. It is a bit of a throwaway line; it does not mean anything. Actually very few jobs are involved in the discovery of new oil deposits. The Minister went on to say that the States being given permission to borrow would allow them to free capital for more capital works. That confused me a little because I could not see why it is so damned important that the States do that. I should have thought that the Federal Government would have more responsibility than the States in that area. 
-Federalism is exactly what I am talking about. The Minister is talking about the destruction of federalism. I do not know why he keeps calling it 'new federalism'. Why does he not call it 'destruction of federalism'. 
That is a much better way to describe it. If we talk about the infrastructure we are still not talking about labour intensive work. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  pointed out quite clearly that the highest number of people who have been replaced and made redundant in Australia are those in the manufacturing sector, not those in the construction sector. I suggest that those in the construction sector are there through downturn of capital investment rather than for any other reason. Construction work on roads and bridges and the like, in common with work in factories and offices, is becoming highly mechanised work. In one sense it is just as well that it is because a lot of us would be living adjacent to unmade roads if we had to wait for proper roads to be constructed by men with picks and shovels and wheelbarrows. 
-It is not a dilemma at all. The situation is quite clear. My whole philosophy has always been that man was not born to work; rather was he born to have the work done. That is why he has intelligence and walks on his hind legs and not on four legs. This Government takes an extraordinarily callous attitude to the post-industrial revolution and is sitting on its butt doing nothing about the people who are being replaced by machines. The Minister mouths platitudes about this sort of study going on and that sort of study going on, but we never see any concrete results. All that we know is that the dole queues are getting longer. All that we know for sure is that there are people leaving school now who, for a period of three of four years or even longer, will not be able to find employment. If the Minister lived in an area such as the one in which I live rather than the comfortable area in which he lives- although I am sure that the problems exist there- he would know that even now there are people who have been conditioned to accept their dole cheque each week and regard it almost as a pay envelope. The pride that they had at one time has been stripped from them by the actions of this Government in ensuring that that situation continues. The Prime Minister, in his nice, mealy-mouthed way says: Unfortunately, unemployment is still far too high'. Goodness gracious me, I bet that all the dear old mothers around Australia wept their eyes out when they read that. But I bet that the 3,000 or 4,000 kids in my electorate who have left school and who have not been employed for two years did not weep their eyes out. It has been a conscious policy of the Government to bring about that pool of unemployment. 
There is no way that the Government can sit back and blithely say that this post-industrial revolution, this onset of advancing technology, can be likened to the industrial revolution when initially the crofters smashed the machines which slowly created more employment for them. There are a few differences and if I may I will hastily elaborate on them. We have to understand that the industrial revolution was marked by an enormous population increase. In 1801 the population of the United Kingdom was 12 million and in 1850 it was 22 million. In 50 years the population had almost doubled. One cannot see that happening in Australia, even in cities, where the population has a longer life expectancy and where there are more live births. There was an enormous increase in the use of energy resources, such as coal, iron and water. I cannot really see a similar increase being condoned by our present society. There was development of new industries, such as railways, which employed huge resources and manpower. Of course, any innovation that takes place from now on is the child of technology, which just does not use up huge resources of manpower. I am told that it took 20 men to bring the railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. Hordes of Chinese coolies were used at one time to lay railway tracks. 
-I am not suggesting that. I have made that quite clear already. If the Minister took the wax out of his ears and listened to what was being said he would probably learn something. There was also an exploitation of cheap raw materials, for example from India and Africa. We will not see that again. There were major developments in the provision of utilities such as electricity, gas, water, sewerage, and in urban housing, transport, schools and hospitals with a resultant scarcity economy with supply falling behind demand. There was job creation through mechanisation. The machines needed operators. 
-If the Minister can contain himself I will turn now to the postindustrial revolution. I know that he is excited about all of this. In economically advanced countries there are now small population increases with life expectancy stable or, as in the United States and Australia, falling slightly. There is a growing anxiety about the rate of resource depletion, as illustrated by the Club of Rome's report entitled 'Limits to Growth', which points out that the United States with 6 per cent of the world's population consumes 40 per cent of the world's annual output of raw materials. There has been a development of sophisticated industries which are based increasingly on the concept of miniaturisation. That is, quantum leaps in complexity and efficiency are accompanied by quantum dives in size, energy use and cost. Logically one cannot maximise two functions at the same time, but the achievement of miniaturisation has done precisely that. It has been estimated that since 1948 the size of computers has diminished by a factor of 1,000, that their reliability and capacity has increased by a factor of 1,000 and that their cost has dropped by a factor of 100. There has been an end to the era of cheap raw materials from the Third World, and major developments, such as utilities, schools and hospitals in a post-scarcity economy places more emphasis on the consumption of services than on goods. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. Before calling the honourable member for Mackellar I draw the attention of the  Hansard  reporters to the possibility that they may have intercepted an interjection from the honourable member for Port Adelaide made from the Public Gallery. Of course, under those circumstances that interjection is not admissible. Having said that, I must chastise the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories operate an animal research station or similar establishment in the Shire of Newham, Woodend, Victoria. 
If so, is the property used for any commercial purpose. 
3 ) What happens to surplus stock raised on the property. 
What happens to stock when they are no longer useful. 
Is any payment of rates or payment in the nature of rates made to the Shire; if so, how much has been paid in each of the last 5 years. 
Some of the mee sugar coating that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  put on the cake ought to be removed and he should be revealed for what he is. The address that he made to this House tonight was so far from the truth that it was not even funny. He skirted around the whole subject and finally had to home in and state what was the target for section 45D of the Trade Practices Act in the first instance, as was stated in the debate in this House 18 months ago in May 1977. No secret was made then of where the target was for section 45D and there has been no secret in practice in the 18 months since as to what the purpose of the Government was in first introducing section 45D. Nobody in Australia is under any illusionperhaps except the honourable member for Casey- as to the intent and purpose of this section. I join with the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in condemning this sloppy Government. We reject completely the whole concept of 45D and therefore we reject completely this amendment to it which is contained in the Bill. We must condemn the Government again for its sloppiness. Every time the Government brings in a Bill to this House the Minister responsible has to make an amendment to it half-way through the debate. What a sloppy bunch of Bill drafters are in the Government. 
I make a point regarding what the honourable member for Casey said. I understood him to say that it is not intended to interfere with the ability of employees to protect their wages and conditions. That is the tenor of what I think he said. I refer to the most recent use of section 45D. A small petrol retail distributor in Victoria eventually brought every motorist in Victoria to a position where he could not use his car. This was not caused through the action of a union but by the use of section 4SD and because a writ was taken out against the union. The honourable member for Casey, in all his wisdom, said that unions have a right to defend the wages and working conditions of their members. We agree. The honourable member nodded his head. He obviously does not know what the dispute in Seymour was all about. It was all about protecting the working conditions of unionists and their wages. 
An agreement was reached with Esso Australia Ltd that petrol carted to that depot would be carted by tanker drivers employed at the tanker drivers' rate of pay under the Federal award. The small distributor wanted to cut the throats of those tanker drivers and slash their wages by employing men under the State award. 
The honourable member defends the right of unions to defend the working conditions and the pay rates of their members. He claims that they have a legitimate right to do that. He obviously condones the action of this man- who incidentally was a Liberal Party candidate in an election, a man named Gorman from Seymour- in taking out an action under section 45D. He caused  Sir John  Moore to lose a whole night's sleep trying to settle the blasted dispute. It would not even have started if it had not been for that section of the Act. I refer to an article in today's  Australian  of Tuesday, 2 1 November. I will read the article in full. It is interesting in the light of what has been said about settling disputes. It states: 
A claim by a meat company that  its business  had suffered because of a black ban imposed by unionists was rejected in the Federal Court in Sydney yesterday. 

 Mr Justice St John said the only evidence of loss or damage was 'inconclusive and scanty'. 
The company, Tillmanns Butcheries, sought an injunction and damages against the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union and five individuals under the Trade Practices Act. 
This was because of certain members of the union refusing to slaughter animals destined for the company's butcher shops for three weeks in December last year. 
The slaughtermen were employed by Canberra Abattoir. 
The company claimed the union had breached Section 45 of the Act and that it had caused substantial damage to business and lessening of competition. 
It was the first time a company had brought a court action under the section. 
The judge dismissed the claim for an injunction and damages. 
That was the first time an action had been heard under that section. Yet that same section has been used more than once in Australia to start industrial disputes. It has not settled one dispute yet; it has started them. The whole tenor of Australian industrial law is one of conciliation. Under the Constitution the Australian Government's power in industrial matters lies in conciliation, not in thumping unions. It is there to settle disputes; not to start them. The approach of this Government is to start disputes which it cannot settle. It set up the machinery for people to start disputes but it did not set up any machinery to settle them. Nobody is going to cop that sort of situation. The only people who might are those who have no industrial muscle at all. The Government is talking about inviting a fight. If we talk about inviting a fight we are going to talk about muscle. What this Government is about is bashing up industrial cripples. The Government  will  find that there are not too many industrial cripples in Australia if it pulls in the whole trade union movement. 
As the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, the Australian Council of Trade Unions has taken a consolidated decision on this matter. Not individual unions but every trade union in Australia affiliated with the ACTU has pledged itself to oppose this part of the legislation wherever it rears its ugly head. If this Government thinks that it can take on the combined might of the trade union people of Australia, the organised working people of Australia, it has another thing coming. If it takes that course it will certainly do what it has wanted to do for a long time, that is, to bring this country to its knees. The Government will bring about violence in the community. 
When I listened to the honourable member for Casey quoting from the second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  it seemed to me that he was saying that the only thing that matters in this world is that some contract is satisfied somewhere along the line and to hell with the people who have to do the work to make sure that the contract is satisfied, to hell with their working conditions and anything else that is connected with them. The suggestion was: They count little so long as we can meet our contract. 
For the information of the honourable member, I am not exactly a stay-at-home. I have been around the world. I have visited other countries. I do not know where he gets his information about Australia having a reputation for not being able to deliver on time. I do not know with whom he spoke but in the places where I went and the people with whom I spoke certainly never raised this sort of attitude. If people do hold this attitude it is through this Government's propaganda which it puts out in Australia and which is picked up by overseas news services and sent around the world. It is small wonder that some people around the world trunk that we are in a state of constant industrial turmoil in Australia, when this Government provokes that sort of situation. The Government cannot succeed. The Opposition, with the support of the combined trade union movement in Australia, strongly opposes the action that has been taken. 
I make one other point that highlights the recent dispute at Seymour more than anything else. It involves the lodging of a writ by  Mr Leo  Gorman which brought about a situation in which the tanker drivers in Victoria finally stopped work altogether. There was mad panic interstate as petrol supplies were exhausted. That dispute did not end in the Federal court with that writ being heard by a judge. It did not finish there! As a matter of fact, the dispute which caused last week's petrol crisis in Victoria ended in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission when Commissioner H. Neil ruled that members of the Transport Workers Union would make deliveries from the Esso Spotswood plant. That is where it finished- in the proper court, the proper forum. It finished before a commissioner of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Commissioners are people who have been trained to resolve disputes, not to start them. There is no provision in the Act for there to be any consultation or conciliation whatsoever. Rather, it is a sledge-hammer, full frontal attack and the trade union movements will not accept it. 
I am not sure which amendment I am speaking to because they keep popping up all the time. Every time we sit down the Government introduces a new amendment. I am speaking to the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 which uses the words: 'preventing or substantially hindering a third person'. Nothing could be more lukewarm than that. It is a net that has been set very wide. The honourable member for Casey can put all the nice icing that he likes on the cake but the cake is simply full of vitriol. One lick of the icing and, boy, you are dead. The trade union movement will not wear that any more than the Labor Party will in this place. Having said that, I oppose the Bill. I will oppose any amendment to this particular Bill that the Minister likes to wheel up. 
-by leave-I rise in support of the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  who is the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee and to indicate to this House that there is complete and utter unanimity on the part of members of that Committee in urging the expenditure of a further $330,000 to provide a heated, covered swimming pool for the use of the personnel at Bonegilla military establishment. In no way can this be seen as a luxury item in that location. The pool will be every bit as much a pan of the training of the young men and women who are in camp there as is any other facility there. All the Committee did-I think it took an extraordinarily wise decision on this occasion- was to make sure that a facility is provided that can be used all year round. The Committee's line of thinking was that, rather than spend $400,000 on a pool that could be used in reality for only two or three months of the year, it was a lot wiser to spend another $330,000 to provide a pool that could be used year round. In practice it will be used for about 10 to11 months of the year. 
I think the Committee acted wisely. The pool will not be for people to swim in just at their leisure; the recruits are required to be trained in swimming in water out of their depth with full pack on. Most people would be surprised at the number of people in Australia today who cannot swim. The recruits are required to be taught to swim under extraordinary conditions such as with full pack in water out of their depth. The pool will also be part of the organised sporting program in the area every bit as much as the football fields, and in the same way as the football fields it will provide the opportunity for competitive sports. I repeat that I simply wanted to make those points to urge the House to take the item seriously and to indicate that there was complete and utter unanimity on the part of the Committee when this matter was decided. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Are printed precis of Radio Australia broadcasts to North America and Europe available at Australian Embassies in those areas. 
Did the precis issued in early September devote most of itsinformation towards reporting at length on every industrial dispute in Australia. 
If so, is this the general tenor of broadcasts from Radio Australia. 
Will he obtain from the news editor the reasons for industrial disputes being considered more important to persons overseas than many matters of national and international interest which do not receive equal prominence. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
Is it the practice to name Qantas aircraft after Australian cities; if so, will he list the names of cities borne by Qantas aircraft. 
Who decides the names that Qantas aircraft will bear. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Workshop, amenities building and services at Garden Island Dockyard, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that taxpayers' money disbursed to the States by the Commonwealth finances the Victorian Rural Finance and Settlement Commission? Does the Commonwealth have any agreement with the Victorian Government on the ceilings and means tests for loans made by the Commission? If so, what are the details? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General 's attention been drawn to a report on 26 October 1978 of a court case in the United States of America involving the Westinghouse Electric Corporation filing false statements with the United States Government. 
If so, can the Attorney-General give an unqualified assurance that the foreign official referred to as allegedly receiving bribes from the giant Westinghouse Electric Corporation is not an Australian. 
If not, will the Government institute an inquiry to determine that no Australian official is involved. 
-I address a question to the Treasurer and remind him of his Budget prediction last year that inflation would fall to 6 per cent this financial year. I also remind him of the Prime Minister's prediction that inflation would fall to 5 per cent for the June quarter this year. Is it a fact, as reported, that the Government's economic advisers are forecasting a rise of over 2 per cent in the consumer price index for the March quarter this year, to follow the December rise of 2.3 per cent? Has the Treasurer seen reports that leading businessmen are predicting a 10 per cent inflation rate by the end of this calendar year? Can the Treasurer assure the House that Australia is not going to suffer a resurgence of inflation? 

 -I Mr Speaker, I would like to place a matter before you for consideration. On Friday of last week the  Sun-News Pictorial  reported in alphabetical order the names of all those honourable members who voted for and against the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  in this House on Thursday last. The form of reporting followed the practice adopted by  Hansard  and, indeed, the  Votes and Proceedings  of this House, whereby members' names are recorded alphabetically and the tellers are shown at the bottom of the list. I supported the amendment of the honourable member for McMillan and voted for it. As I also counted the votes, my name appeared as a teller. Obviously, it was not clear to people how the tellers voted. Many people rang me and, as my name was not included in the alphabetical list, they asked why I had not supported the amendment. I explained that my name was appended at the bottom as one of the tellers. So I ask you  Sir, to  please give consideration to this problem with a view to examining the method of recording votes cast during a division so that it is clear to those who may care to read  Hansard,  and perhaps not understand the system, how the tellers voted. 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  burst into the chamber last Thursday to make a statement after being advised that the New South Wales Government had made a 37V4-hour working week available to the power workers in New South Wales. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  described it as 'ranting'. It was not a statement at all; it was ranting. Honourable members who sit in this place heard it and the public listening on the radio would be aware of the irrational way in which the Treasurer burst in upon a debate that was taking place in this House and proceeded to beset the popular Wran Government of New South Wales. It is unusual for this House to spend as much time on ministerial statements as it has recently. It is indicative of the way that this present Government lacks positive legislation to bring before the Parliament for discussion, positive legislation that could have an effect on the lives of all Australians. Tonight when we are debating this statement by the Treasurer we find that only four members of the Government side are to support him and half a dozen members of the Opposition are prepared to rise to condemn the Treasurer for his statement and the Government for its attitude towards the matter. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you would be aware that the general traditions and forms of the House were not observed by the Government last Thursday. Without any warning at all the Treasurer burst in with some handwritten notes at 5 o'clock in the afternoon- which he thought was prime listening time- and interrupted a debate and proceeded to set about the New South Wales Government. With a most curious statement not only did he set about trying to justify that the Federal Government could not agree with the introduction of a 37yi-hour week for power workers; he also made explicit threats in the middle of his statement. He said that if the New South Wales Government was going to waste the money that was being paid to it by the Federal Government then the Federal Government would have to take action and stop that happening. I notice that the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  nods his head in agreement but it was the same Treasurer and the same Prime Minister who saw federal funds being wasted by the Liberal Government in Victoria which was purchasing worthless land with it and buying flood prone land through the Victorian Housing Commission with funds provided by this same Federal Government. Yet I do not recall the honourable member for Dundas, the Treasurer or the Prime Minister standing up in outraged fury and saying that no further funds will go to the Government of Victoria. Surely this is the greatest exercise in cynicism that this country has ever seen. 
For the record I point out that we have a Liberal government in Victoria. The Federal Government can hardly berate that Government. But it is a different matter with the extraordinarily popular Labor Government in New South Wales which is supported by threequarters of the people in that State. That worries the Treasurer who comes from that State. It worries the honourable member for Dundas because if an election were held tomorrow his own seat would be in jeopardy. This is because of the actions of the Wran Government in New South Wales. The honourable member for Dundas is a very young man; a capable man, some people have been heard to say. I am not one of them. The same gentleman, were he alive many years ago, centuries before his time, would bewail legislation that was passed by progressive people to stop children going into the mines. 
Only last Sunday I had the pleasure of visiting Bacchus Marsh, a most delightful town in Victoria, where a blacksmith's cottage was being opened. An historian, a very prominent professor, gave an address and related the working hours of the last century. He told tales of boys- it is a matter of record- who were no higher than the table in the chamber and who were working in the factories, mines and mills. This is not a matter for jest- those things happened. Before the Second World War men working for the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board in Victoria were required to be on duty 18 hours a day. Although they were required to work only 10 hours the other eight hours had to be spent around the depot in broken shifts. Those things have changed. They will never return as long as fair-minded people are in responsible positions. 
We have a history right up until 1947 of long working hours gradually being reduced. Then, somehow or other, this most progressive ship I am talking about seemed to hit a rock and founder. There it stopped. It is of some significance that from 1949 we had a Federal Liberal government for 23 years. It is clear why there was stagnation in that period. The people we are speaking about work in an area of production that is probably more highly automated than any other. Another area that I suppose could be included is the waterfront. I am not too sure that the honourable member for Dundas or any other honourable member on the other side of the House has yet been prepared to see the men who load and unload the ships that come to our shores. 
-The honourable member for Maribyrnong is right. These men, because of the advance of technology and the methods of handling cargo through containerisation, work only 35 hours a week. Yet throughput in that area has never suffered as a consequence; in fact, it has increased. Oil workers work 35 hours a week. Miners work 35 hours a week. If the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was present he would tell us of white collar workers who do not work even 20 hours a week. That is his story, not mine. Almost since Federation the public servants of Australia have worked less than 40 hours a week. They work 36 3/4 hours a week; certainly not 40 hours. They have worked those hours for a long time. I did not hear the honourable member for Dundas saying that their hours ought to be extended to 40. 1 would not expect him to say that; I would not support him if he did. 
There is no doubt that there is a great need for the working hours of people in industries which are becoming more and more automated and mechanised to be shortened. The honourable member for Gellibrand is acknowledged throughout this land as the greatest authority on economics in or outside of Parliament. He is a very modest fellow. He would not tell the House what I am about to relate. I will have to say it for him. He is acknowledged as a great authority on these matters. Honourable members heard the very erudite exposition he gave tonight on the non-effect of these people having their hours reduced. It is a pity that the honourable member did not have the opportunity of saying that to the Treasurer who, it is acknowledged inside and outside the Parliament, knows nothing about economics. The Treasurer did not have the benefit of the advice of the honourable member for Gellibrand otherwise he would not, as he did last Thursday, have talked about matters of which he obviously has no knowledge. He just took the normal, Tory reaction to a situation where the working hours of working men and women were being reduced. Nobody was really surprised; that view was rather expected. 
In this enlightened day and age which most of us care to think we live in a number of attitudes need to change. The shellbacks who sit opposite will never change. That is acknowledged by everybody. The enlightened Wran Government, a Labor government, in New South Wales has seen the wisdom of and finally agreed to the long standing claim by the power workers. It probably should have been agreed to earlier. I sat here and listened to most of the debate. I could not make a lot of sense out of the contribution of the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson).  I was unaware whether he was arguing for or against. In the end I thought he was doing both and having two bob each way, which is typical of the National Country Party. I thought that the honourable member for Dundas was making some dreadful statements. He is a lawyer. I believe that he is a barrister. 
-He is a solicitor. Yet he seemed to me to commit one of the seven deadly sins in that he embraced envy when he spoke about dragline operators earning $28,000 per annum. I will concede that he did not say that they did; he said that he had been led to believe that they did. He did not give us the source of his information. I do not know how he came to believe that and I am not one to argue as to what those people earn, but I have a fair idea of the nature of the work they perform. He did not tell us how they come to earn $28,000. He left us- it was a typical lawyer's trick- way up in the air by saying that for  3VA  hours a week these guys take home 28 grand a year. Frankly, the honourable member must be joking. He would certainly know better than that. He did not bother to say what these people have to do and what degree of training and skill they have to have. He did not describe the onerous nature of their work and the great responsibility that they bear because of the large and expensive equipment that they operate. They cannot afford to make mistakes. He took no account of that; he gave us no explanation. I invite the House to reject completely the statement which leaves us with the impression that for 3714, 35 or even 40 hours a week some people take home $28,000. If the honourable member uses these sorts of things in argument he ought to be more frank. He ought to explain his statements and not just leave everything hanging up in the air. 
There is no rational argument- certainly none was put forward by the Treasurer last Thursday- against the actions of the Premier of New South Wales. I would like to make it quite clear that I am not a States' righter. As far as I understand it, all the States' lighters- those that believe in the rights of the States to do their own thing- sit opposite. Let a State do its own thing, or a Premier of a State take his own decisions. But this Government wants to use section 96 of the Constitution. I do not agree with that: I am defending the Premier of New South Wales and giving him his right to make decisions in this matter. I repeat my position about the Liberal Government in Victoria, which has done far more dastardly things than that which is alleged against the Premier of New South Wales. Never at any time has there been any indication by this Government or by the House that funds ought to be cut off to Victoria because of the misuse of public money by that corrupt State Government. 
We are talking about electricity generation. In Victoria, the generation of electricity has increased by 30 per cent over 10 years. The work force has fallen by 30 per cent in that period without an increase in the relative cost of electricity. The honourable member for Dundas and other honourable members opposite may care to take that fact on board. I shall repeat it. The generation of electricity- I suppose that honourable members opposite would define it as productivity- has increased by 30 per cent in Victoria over a 10-year period. The work force has fallen by 30 per cent. The honourable member for Dundas is the mathematician. He can work it out. It seems to me that, if productivity is moving one way and the work force is moving the other way, something has to fill in the gap. The relative cost of electricity in Victoria has not increased. 
How can any reasonable person stand in this House and say that the working hours of people engaged in the power industry, in the generation of electricity, should not be reduced? No reasonable person can say it. No reasonable person has said it. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  must be condemned for his rash statement. I am sure that he regrets it now. He should not make such statements in this House without a shred of evidence, purely and simply on the basis of his own emotions and conservative attitude towards working men which are well known throughout the country. He should not attack one of the finest Premiers Australia has ever had- Neville Wran. 
-This is a rather historic occasion on which to respond to this Bill that has been introduced by the Government. I feel some honour in being the first  speaker  for the Opposition on the Bill because it was on 26 September 1974 that I also had the honour of introducing into this Parliament a private member's Bill which for the first time established the site for a new and permanent Parliament House. Honourable members will recall that the debate as to where the new Parliament House ought to be sited had been going on for some time. The matter having been initiated in the House of Representatives by me, as is the usual practice it was then passed to the Senate which made some amendments. For the first time the Parliament had determined that the new and permanent Parliament House would be built on Capital Hill. 
The Labor Party offers no opposition to the Parliament House Construction Authority Bill 1979. However, there is a need to say some things about the measure that is before the House. But before doing so, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister at the table, the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  Since he has been the Minister for Home Affairs he has played a very significant and positive role in ensuring that parliamentarians of the future and those who work in Parliament House shall work in a place that is more comfortable and more appropriate to their respective callings. 
-As the honourable member for Lalor rightly says, we will certainly miss the Minister when he goes to the High Court. Without wishing to prejudice the Minister's chances in that area, I say that I trust that the rumours that are now rife throughout the Commonwealth as to his appointment to the High Court of Australia are true. The High Court could not be graced by a more worthy jurist than the Minister for home Affairs, and I say that with all sincerity. 
After the site for the new Parliament House was determined, in 1975 a joint committee was set up which was responsible for doing all the things necessary to bring about this new and permanent parliament house. In the ensuing four years that committee has worked very well. It has been well served by its secretariat and it has been well served by those members of the Parliament who have served upon it, including the Presiding Officers of this Parliament, who, I might add, have had great influence. Together those people have brought the project to the stage where the new and permanent parliament house is not just a dream, a dream that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and many others had had for a long time, but is very close to becoming a reality. There is no doubt in my mind that the timetable that has been set by that committee whereby the new parliament house will be ready for occupation on 26 January 1988 by parliamentarians and by the numerous people who work in this Parliament House, thereby commemorating the 200th anniversary of the invasion of Australia by Europeans, will be achieved. 
I just want to make one other point. It is very easy to misunderstand the whole situation and to gain the impression that parliamentarians are setting about building themselves a new Taj Mahal in which to carry out their duties. Nothing could be further from the truth. Anybody who has had the opportunity to read the brief will know that the new and permanent parliament house is probably being built, as indeed it should be, more for those who spend most hours of their day, most weeks of their year and most years of their lives working in this place. You may or may not know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that we parliamentarians have a very high mortality rate in terms of our occupation of these fine and comfortable green benches. In the short time that I have been a member of this House- 10 yearssome 100 parliamentarians have attested to the very high mortality rate of parliamentarians. So the new and permanent parliament house is not being built for those people: Rather it is being built for the numerous people who were here before parliamentarians came and who will be here after the parliamentarians have gone. I speak in a very sincere way of the dedicated staff, the people who work in this building under conditions which, were I again a union organiser, it would not be my wont to allow. However, these people are so dedicated to their task that they choose to work here, despite the conditions. However, that is not a very good reason for this great, this young, this vigorous country of ours not having in its premier city, Canberra, a meeting place for the national assembly of this country- the House of Representatives and its brother or sister, the Senate- a proper place, a place designed specifically to meet the needs of contemporary parliamentarians and their staff and the staff that is needed to make the Parliament work. 
One thought that does cross my mind is this: The committee that was set up has developed the whole concept to the stage where it is almost time now for a competition to be called for architects to come forward and register themselves for their attempt to design for us a new parliament house. A brief has been prepared by the committee and when the appropriate time comes it will be made available to those who want to enter the contest. In this way architects registered in Australia- the contest will not necessarily be limited to Australian architects- will pit their skills and will indicate to a panel that has already been appointed how they would endeavour to solve the multitude of problems associated with the design and construction of the new and permanent parliament house for the national assembly of Australia. Another thought in my mind is: What is the future role of the existing committee or perhaps of its successor? The Bill does not indicate what that role will be. The Bill gives an indication that there will be a committee and makes mention of the fact that the Authority to be established by the Bill will be responsible for reporting to a committee of the Parliament. 
Paragraph 5 (b) of the Bill states that one of the functions of the Authority is: to furnish to the Minister and to any relevant Joint Committee information with respect to matters relating to the design or construction of Parliament House; 
Clause 7(a) states that the Authority shall, in the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions under this Act: have regard to any advice furnished to it by a relevant Joint Committee; 
-I was almost reduced to tears by the speech of the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  He accused the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  of saying that the matter raised by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his statement had something to do with the elections that are due in Victoria on S May. I point out to the honourable member that not one member from the Government side representing a State other than Victoria has spoken in this debate. The Government speakers have been the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who is the Minister for Industrial Relations, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  and the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  They are three Victorians. So far, from the Opposition side, we have heard from a South Australian, the honourable member for Port Adelaide, who led for the Opposition, and two Victorians. I join in the debate simply because of my interest in the industrial relations field, not just because I am a Victorian. So away with the cant of the honourable member for Casey and his claim that what he was talking about had nothing to do with the elections in Victoria. Who believes him? Nobody believes him. 
If we are to talk about the public interest, as the honourable member did in laying blame fairly and squarely at the feet of the trade union movement, I would remind him that there are always two parties to every dispute. One of those parties he exonerated from blame. Apparently that party has the public interest at heart. As an honourable member of this House said to me at the airport this morning: 'Would it not be lovely if we could all agree with one another?' In my usual kind, generous way, I said to him: 'What you mean by agreeing with one another is that I should agree with you'. That is the proposition which the honourable member for Casey is putting to us. He is saying that we will get industrial peace and harmony in this world as long as the workers agree with the employers. With the greatest respect to everybody in the House, that is not on. 
How low the honourable member brought his argument when he talked about a lack of milk for children. It was not so. No child in Victoria went short of milk. Why did the honourable member make such a low point in his debate? He was trying to curry favour with the employers, the bosses in this world who support him and the party that he represents and keep him where he is. He spoke about public interest. Under Part V of the constitution section S 1 (xxxv) talks about conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State'. The key word and the word mentioned first is 'conciliation'. Under that provision we have an Act of this Parliament. It is the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 'Conciliation' is the key word all the way through, not 'confrontation'. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  burst into this place the other night virtually frothing at the mouth. I think he had been using Colgate toothpaste or something. He charged in with handwritten notes, interrupted a debate that was going on, and he said:  'Mr Speaker,  I want to address the House'. He wanted to talk about the Premier of New South Wales introducing a 37!6 hour working week for some power workers. He went on and on and on. He got himself more irate the further he went. The more he went on, the angrier he became. Finally, he said: 'If these terrible people in New South Wales are going to do this, if that dreadful Premier in New South Wales'- I might point out that he is the best Premier in the whole of Australia, or will be until 5 May, when  Mr Frank  Wilkes will outstrip him- 'is going to do this, we will cut off their funds'. 'That is what we are going to do, we are going to cut off their funds'. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  said, there was a meeting of Premiers the other day. That matter occupied three minutes of their time. But we had to listen to that diatribe from the Treasurer in this House for 10 minutes. We had to debate that. 
What a silly argument it was. The Treasurer cannot do what he said he was going to do. He knows that. In the same way the Minister for Industrial Relations breezed into this House this afternoon with his statement. I do not think he frothed at the mouth; I do not think he has ever frothed at the mouth. He came into this House with the statement that he was going to do all sorts of dreadful things to all sorts of people. Nowhere in the world could you get a person to agree that after an $8 increase has been granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- the umpire- it should be taken away. All along we have heard it said that we must abide by the umpire's decision. Very well, the umpire has given a decision. But who now wants to knock that decision? Not the unions. Although the employers resisted the claim before the Commission, the Government, which is not worth two bob- not the trade unions- now wants to knock the decision over. 
The Minister for Industrial Relations, who could not get a job sweeping the streets in Melbourne if he was unemployed, wants to knock the decision over. The Government wants to use what it thinks are its powers. The Government does not understand. It has no power at all. It does not even know what it is trying to do. The Minister has come into this House and said that the Government will deregister the Transport Workers Union and the Miscellaneous Workers Union. That is a classic statement. What a faux pas. That will go down as the quote of the week, there is nothing surer. 
If members of the Miscellaneous Workers Union do not go back to work, only the automotive industry will be injured. It will be the only one out of paint. I am quite sure that I will not be upset if I cannot go down the street and get four gallons of paint to paint my house- it can wait another week; it is not all that urgent. It is the automotive industry that is upset about this, although I have received information that the automotive industry already has four Boeing 747s lined up at Tapai Airport in Taiwan being loaded up with cans of paint- duty free. Beauty', they say. They are going to make a fortune out of it. Members of the Miscellaneous Workers Union will not be hurt, but the Government is giving another boat ride, another bonus, to the people it wants to help- the employers. 
The dispute is again about wages and conditions. The honourable member for Casey used the words: ' ... the irresponsibility of the Transport Workers Union leadership'. He should go home tonight and bite his tongue right out. Either he does not know or he does not want to know- I suspect the latter- what happens in trade unions. It is not a question of the leaders of the Transport Workers Union going to the men and saying: 'Right-o, guys, no work. You are all out of work. It does not matter how much you earn a week, you are not going to earn that this week. You are just not working. ' They need the money to take home to their wives and kids. I was a trade union official before I came into this Parliament. I could not say: 'You are not working this week. ' If I had such powers of persuasion I would not be sitting on this back bench in the lowly position of  Deputy  Opposition Whip- not on your sweet Nelly- I would be sitting right over there in the Prime Minister's chair. No one in this country has those powers. The Government should not delude itself and should not try to delude the people of Australia. 
What happens is that the men meet, talk about their problems and by ballot decide the issue. On more than one occasion the leadership of the union has gone back to the members and recommended a return to work, the members have been dissatisfied with the advice given by their leaders and have decided by ballot that they will remain on strike. Where are the people with this great power who can march in and tell the trade union members to stay out of work? This idea is fiction. It is a nonsense to suggest that the Government has the public interest at heart when it denies the words of our Constitution. We have a Conciliation- I stress the word conciliation- and Arbitration Act, but when has this Government conciliated with anyone? Its position and attitude have always been ones of direct confrontation. 
The Minister for Industrial Relations came into this House with what he believed to be the ultimate weapon. In fact, rather than being the ultimate weapon, it is a damp squib. The Minister has not yet put it to the test. I might make so bold as to invite him to put it to the test and see how far it goes. I would like to see whether the Government of this country is quite prepared to take on organised labour in this country. It is a powerful group, as it should be, and I would like to see whether the Government is prepared to do that. Government members talk about the deregistration of the two unions. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  wanted to extend that idea even further. Returning to the honourable member for Casey, he gave us a list of industrial disputes. He went to every corner of Australia, even to remote places like Ceduna, trying to find the odd occasion when there had been a stoppage by transport workers. He put all that information together and said that was the justification and the reason for the Government 's proposal. He did not tell us why those stoppages occurred. But he said that was justification for the deregistration of the union. I would be disappointed in the fine gentlemen who sit on the bench of our Arbitration Commission if they listened to such piffle, if they were persuaded by such spurious arguments. 
The honourable member gave a history of the trade union movement and said that at some time or another there was great justification for the existence of trade unions and the organisation of the work force. Of course there was. There always has been. But when it was tried a couple of hundred years ago, the people involved were gaoled. They were transported from England to Australia. He knows about the martyrs of Tolpuddle; I do not have to remind him. Those people were gaoled for doing it then. He would like to return to the days when men and women were gaoled if they dared to organise against the employers. He spoke about companies being weak-kneed and giving in- one company giving in and the rest having to follow. I thought he believed in the free enterprise system. I do not; I believe in socialism. I do not think the free enterprise system works now and I do not think it will ever work. If he believes in such a system, as a corollory he must believe that the employers are big enough to stand on thenown feet, that they must be in competition with one another. He concedes that employers in this area show a weakness. But because they show a weakness and because the employees are better organised, he wants to use the forces of government to destroy the employees. Is that the free enterprise system at work? Is it the free enterprise system where those who believe in it can call on the Government to bail out the employers as has happened in many areas? 
When Thomas Nationwide Transport looked like taking over Ansett Transport Industries in Victoria we had that old reprobate from way back,  Sir Henry  Bolte, intervene. He is the same man who was mixed up in the failure of Associated Securities Ltd. That is what a good business manager he is. He used the forces of the Victorian Government to stop that amalgamation because, he said, it was not good enough. At that time the two giants of the transport industry were at war. It had nothing to do with the unions. Did the honourable member for Casey tell us about that tonight? Did the Minister for Industrial Relations tell us about that tonight? They did not mention a word about it. It seems to me that this House and the Parliament in Victoria- the State with the most corrupt government that Australia has ever had- are quite prepared to use their powers through the Victorian Parliament to support their friends. 
Going back over it again,  Sir Henry  Bolte,  Sir Reginald  Ansett and  Sir Cecil  Looker- the father, the son and the holy ghost of the Liberal Party- were mixed up in the failure of Associated Securities Ltd in Victoria. The failure of that company was a disaster. If we are going to talk about the public interest and people taking other people to the cleaners, let us talk about  Mr Harry  M. Miller who is a card carrying member of the National Country Party. He is a great supporter of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. He has poured shareholders down the drain with his Computicket failure, as did  Sir Henry  Bolte,  Sir Reginald  Ansett and  Sir Cecil  Looker- all with  'Sir' before  their name- pour people down the drain. That statement seems to raise a smirk on the face of honourable members opposite. They seem to think that sort of chicanery and stand-over tactics of that kind are quite all right. But let honest working-class men demand something that the court has given to them, and the Government wants to deregister their union. It is the height of hypocrisy; it is the height of chicanery. As long as I draw breath and stand in this House, which will be for many years to come, I will defend the right of those workers to obtain that to which they are entitled. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. It is in response to an answer that was given to this House by the Minister for Health regarding low alcohol beer. In view of the way in which the Minister for Health extolled the virtues of low alcohol beer, will the 
Government consider reducing the excise payable on beers that have an alcohol content of 2 per cent or less? 
-I have the temerity to rise in this debate because, looking at the membership of the New and Permanent Parliament House Committee I believe in all humility that I am probably the longest serving member of that Committee. I have served as a member of the Committee since it was first instituted in 1975. I agree with the comments of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I am surprised that there are people in a country such as ours who would disparage and find reasons to say there is no need for a new and permanent parliament house. 
-I think many people do not like politicians. I would like to make the point that the new and permanent parliament house is not for politicians; rather it is for those who serve politicians. The new House of Representatives chamber will not be very much larger than the present chamber. The people of Australia rejected a referendum on a proposal to break the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives. As a result the Committee felt clearly that an almost 50 per cent increase in the number of Federal parliamentarians would be required to justify an increase in the size of the House of Representatives chamber. Frankly, to use the vernacular, that is considered to be just not on. Honourable members will know from the Committee 's report that the new House of Representatives chamber will accommodate only 130 members. At the moment there are 124 members of this chamber. So lavish provisions are not being made for parliamentarians. The figure of 130 might be wrong; I do not have the report with me. 
-The Minister corrects me; it is 170. So the report does not make any lavish provision for parliamentarians in that sense. It makes no greater provision for parliamentarians than is provided now insomuch as each parliamentarian will have an office of his own. Certainly those offices will be a little larger. I would have no quarrel with that arrangement in the case of my own office. 
-It is twice as big as a broom cupboard. When I first came to this place the brooms were taken out of my room to let me in. I do not know whether that is good or bad. Some one suggested that I might have been a test pilot on one of those brooms. I reject that suggestion; it is not true. 
-My God; it is nearly as bad as the slogan 'Turn on the Lights', and in any event, neither thing has happened. 
I support the proposition and I commend the Government. I would like to pay tribute to the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and to the  President  of the Senate both of whom have been dynamic in their endeavours to carry this matter forward. I would like to raise just one point. If the community wants to be critical of this new building it ought to bear in mind that in terms of 1978 dollars we are looking at an expenditure of about $150m and this expenditure will be contained. If I may digress, I would like to pay great tribute to officers of the National Capital Development Commission who have sat with and advised the Committee. They have been trail blazers into an area that was unknown to most of us. None of us has been in this position before. We have never had to blaze the trail, to start from nothing and to come forward with a brief from which architects from within Australia and outside Australia, provided they are registered0 in this country, are able to design our new and permanent parliament house. 
I know that before I came to this place the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  with other people, carried out a great deal of work on the proposed new and permanent parliament house. The committee of which I am a member used the report of his committee as a starting point. So I guess the honourable member for 
Wills blazed the trail through and brought us to the position where we were able to start really to look at something and really come to taws with the problem that confronted us. 
-I do not think one could have a better combination. The honourable member for Wills started the concept of a new and permanent parliament house and the honourable member for Burke, if I could be forgiven for saying so, put the House where it ought to be, and that is on Capital Hill. It was my Bill which came before this chamber. 
Tonight I will not say kind words about the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  who is sitting at the table. The last time I did that I was very kind to him. I had him elevated almost to the bench of the High Court of Australia. He got pretty dirty about that. So I want to use this opportunity to withdraw those kind remarks. Rather than his sitting on the bench of the High Court, I think, frankly, he would have some trouble sitting in a magistrates court. But that is by the by. Tonight we are debating a motion which has been moved by the Minister for Home Affairs. I compliment the Government on its action. I say that in all sincerity. But I have been side-tracked. I want to return to the criticism that may arise in relation to the expenditure of $ 1 50m over a long period. 
-The honourable member for Wills says that that is chicken feed. I illustrate the point that it will be 10 years from now that that place will be ready for its first occupation. I am not suggesting that it will be completed, but it will be ready for occupation on 26 January 1988 when we commemorate the two hundredth anniversary of the invasion of Australian by Europeans. However, a building has been completed at Newport in Melbourne, the cost of which was $ 1 60m. We talk about expending $ 150m on our national Parliament, but there is a building in Victoria which cost $160m. It is a power house- a place where electricity is generated. That building cost $160m. So when we talk about $ 150m - 
-There is a need for alternative power sources in Australia, and the honourable member for Hughes has suggested an alternative source. He thinks that the outlay of $150m for a gasworks is better than the expenditure of $ 160m for a power station. I suggest that the amount of money that is being expended on this building is not out of proportion. In fact, it is probably a meagre amount of money. Everybody knows about the generosity of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Scottish ancestry. 
-I am not being racist, not really. I will probably live to regret having made that comment. But this is not an outrageous sum of money. It is a sum of money that is in keeping with the status of the national Parliament. I commend the motion to the House. 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security recall the election promises in 1975 and 1977 that the real value of pensions will be preserved ' and that 'the politics have been taken out of pension increases by linking them automatically with the consumer price index'? In view of these promises, how does the Minister justify the fall in the real value of age and invalid pensions and the unemployment benefit for single recipients caused by the refusal of the Government to maintain sixmonthly indexation? How does the Government justify the fall of 35 per cent over the last three years in the real value of allowances and supplementary assistance for orphans, invalids, the sick and the elderly? Finally, how does the Minister justify the fall of 28 per cent in the real value of the family allowance and the handicapped child allowance? 
-My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Has the Government promised to 'bring taxes down- not increase them', that the tax surcharge would be 'a temporary measure for 1978-79 only' and that 'full automatic indexation' will be introduced in 1978-79? Will the effect of these promises be to reduce the tax paid by the average income earner with a spouse and two children by about $6.50 a week? Has the Treasurer seen reports that the Government's decision to abolish gift duty from 1 July will enable widespread tax avoidance with consequent revenue losses of more than $600m? In the absence of this change, could the tax burden on those who cannot avoid tax be reduced, so facilitating the honouring of the promises to  bring taxes down '? 
I listened intently to the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter).  I made inquiries tonight and asked what he did before he was elected to Parliament. Somebody said that he was a lawyer. I thought: 'Well, that cannot be right after that performance here tonight. No lawyer could make so many mistakes in reading a Bill and so misunderstanding a Bill as the honourable member for Barker did'. He spoke of political speeches in this chamber. For goodness sake, if this is not a forum for political speeches where is there such a forum? Like members of the Liberal Party, he likes to walk away from the fact that these matters are motivated politically. He even denies that the Bill itself is motivated politically. I have the great honour this week, to be acting Whip for the Australian Labor Party. As such I have the honour to preparing the speakers list for this debate and others. It came to my attention on reading the Bill that the member of this chamber who has greatest contact with the Public Service, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  is not listed to speak. He is not in the chamber. He has not been in the chamber. When there is a division called on this matter I will be interested to see how he votes. 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Barker, who I understand has three public servants living in his electorate in South Australia, to tell us tonight that those three people came to see him and that they are very curious people. They are working people. Public servants are working people. They came to see the honourable member for Barker and they came to say to him:  'Mr Porter,  we have no work to do in the Public Service'. Well, I will bet London to a brick that none of those three people came out of the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Commonwealth Social Security Department or - 
-The honourable member for Barker is trying to deny what I am saying. If he really knows about public servants- I have grave doubt in my mind that he does after his speech tonight- then he would know that the people in those areas are really worked out of their minds because this Government, with your indulgence, sir, if I can engage in a bit of politicking at the risk of offending the honourable member for Barker, has done a most curious thing. The Government has increased the number of unemployed people in Australia. It has brought hardship to those people who are trying to collect their unemployment benefit. It has pressed down on those who are receiving their social security benefits. For goodness sake, with the highest unemployment rate that we have had in this country for 40 years or more, with more people seeking social security because of the actions of this Government, how does this Government solve the situation? It seeks to resolve the situation by decreasing the number of people who are providing a service. What sort of rationale is there in that? Only the honourable member for Barker could justify such a situation. I cannot, no member of the Australian Labor Party can and, I might say, more than half of the Australian community cannot. If the Government wants to test that assertion then let us have an election and find out. It will not pick up that challenge. 
-I hear the mouth from the north of Melbourne speaking. I was not sure whether it was the honourable member for Holt or his bees speaking. It was one or the other. They both make the same sort of sense. The honourable member for Barker spoke about the appeals tribunal. He made some great play of the fact that clause16 of the Bill sets up an appeals tribunal and he then read out that clause. I will repeat it because I want the House to understand how this appeals tribunal is loaded against the employee; how the employee has not got a hope in hell with such a tribunal. I spent a life time dealing with such tribunals. Let us see what clause 16 says about the first person to be appointed, the  Chairman.  Sub-clause (2) (a) states that the tribunal shall be constituted by a  Chairman  who: 
) who shall be the person appointed by the GovernorGeneral to be a Chairman of the Commonwealth Employees Redeployment . . . 
Except for one regrettable instance, and that was in1975, the Governor-General of Australia acts on the advice of his Ministers. So he would seek the advice of his Minister as to whom he should appoint as Chairman. That is the practice, is it not? Nobody denies that. There is no demur. It is accepted by the House that that is the practice. That is one against the employee. Clause 16 (2) (b) states that the Tribunal shall also be constituted by: 
One person nominated as provided in the regulations to represent- 
in the case of an appeal against the making of a redeployment declaration- the Department or Commonwealth authority concerned . . . 
So the person who sacked him then becomes part of the tribunal to whom he appeals against his sacking. That is quite a fair proposition, is it not? At this point we have two people against the employee. The third person, the only one of those three who will fight for the right of the employee, is one person nominated as provided in the regulations to represent employees. The honourable member for Barker used more than once the expression 'their Public Service union bosses'. Of course, the honourable gentleman is renowned for hislack of astuteness in the field of politics. Of course, if he were awake in that field and aware in that area he would know that the public servants of Australia did not give the Labor Party particularly great support in the last two elections. As a consequence, I think it is most incongruous that the honourable gentleman should talk about our Public Service union bosses. In fact, I find it offensive, but then I find the honourable member for Barker offensive too. But at least he is honest. 
He then went on, and I was curious about this. It really got to me. Things seldom reach me, but this really did. After saying that there is a need for this Bill, he gave us all sorts of tendentious reasons why the Bill should be in existence. Goodness gracious me! The Minister referred to sections 20 and 67 of the Public Service Act. He told the House- I have no reason to dispute the honourable gentleman; he is quite noted for his honesty and straightforwardness- that those two sections of the Public Service Act are the same as the provisions of this Bill. Such a statement makes my mind all the more suspicious. I was suspicious the moment that this legislation was brought in. I do not trust the Liberals. In company with about 90 per cent of the people of Australia I do not trust the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I do not trust the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who introduced the Bill either. 
-I have quite a command of the language as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are well aware, but I have some difficulty in finding kinder words to describe these gentlemen. I will take note of your warning and will be very careful not to transgress. The last thing I want to do is upset you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  As I pointed out, I was suspicious of these gentlemen. I take it that that is not offensive. I was suspicious of the Prime Minister, the Minister who introduced the Bill and the Government. The honourable member for Barker proved my point. I knew about those sections of the Public Service Act to which reference has been made. I have read the Bill. I thought that, if those provisions existed, my suspicions of the Government would be even worse than before. I rather think that there is some - 
-My expectations, my friend, will be justified at the next election. I wil be sitting where the honourable member is sitting, and he will not be here to see it. 

 Government members interjecting- 

-Thank you,  Sir. I  am glad of your protection. I really need it. Let me refer to the language that is used in the Bill and to Division 2 which refers to 'compulsory retirement'. Why cannot members of the Government be honest and use words such as 'dismissal' or 'sack'? That is what 'compulsory retirement' means. It is a mee comfortable expression, but why does the Government not have the courage to say 'sacked'? 
I bring honourable members now to clause 7 of the Bill which is contained in Part II- Redeployment of Employees'. I note that the issue has already been canvassed. It needs canvassing deeply. When we speak about the rights of employees to appeal, we are talking about individual employees only. If the honourable member for Barker and other Government members read this Bill they will find that there can be no appeal against a declaration that a class of people is redundant. The declaration will stand. The only thing that can happen is that those who are declared to be within the class have a right to appeal against their dismissal because they are redundant. They can appeal individually. If 1 9 people in a department make up a class and a declaration is made those 19 people will be disposed of. They will be sacked. So, if the class comprises 19 people and one person appeals against himself being included in that 1 9, the only action he can take is to say, 'It shan 't ' be me; it should be him'. He has to dob in one of his mates.  His  only right of appeal is against being included in the class of people about whom the declaration is made. If his appeal is successful, somebody else has to be dragged into the breach. The class comprises a number of people, and that number of people, irrespective of who they are, must go. I do not think many Government members understand that aspect, but that is the clear intention of the whole question of redeployment and retirement. 
The most offensive part of clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (hi) is the terrible expression 'for any other prescribed reason'. We are talking about people. The prescription is not laid down. The expression is as broad as the horizon itself- it is 360 degrees broad. Nothing could be more offensive than that provision. Nothing could be more all embracing. In fact, the Government need write nothing else in that clause except that expression. I believe there is a need to delete that expression altogether. The clause loses nothing by the deletion of those words. If the Government were sincere, it would realise that the clause loses nothing by the deletion of that expression. The Government is not being sincere. It wants those words in the clause so that it can be used as a last resort. If the Government cannot get a fellow under clause 7 (1) (b) or (a) or paragraphs (i) or (ii) of sub-clause (b) it can rely on paragraph (iii) to clean him up 'good and proper', to use a colloquialism. The provision is so wide and all-encompassing that it allows the Government to do all things to the employee. Irrespective of what the honourable member for Barker says, they do not include the sorts of things against which the employee has a right of appeal. It is a most offensive provision. I suggest, in line with the amendment that has been moved, that there is a need to withdraw this Bill and redraft it. 
-No chance of it! How will the honourable member ever be persuaded by reasonable and rational argument if he has already made up his mind. This is the sort of reaction that we have to put up with. Honourable members opposite are intransigent. They will not listen to common sense. They are hopeless! The proposition really concerns two matters in the Bill. If the Government is really talking about reducing the size of the Public Service even further, I would not quarrel with the early retirement provision. As I understand it, the unions have no quarrel with that provision. Why does the Government not give that proposal a go and see how many people will take advantage of it before it uses these draconian measures and takes people out and puts them into stocks- that is virtually what it is doing. 
I support the amendment that has been moved. I cannot see that there is a need for such a draconian measure unless the Government is of the view that it needs these sorts of broad brush open-ended clauses in the Bill so that it can do things that I believe should not be done. I am not putting public servants in a special position. I believe that they are employees of the Parliament. They are not the exclusive servants of the Government but employees of the Parliament because they do the work that the Parliament says ought to be done. I am very much afraid that the Bill leaves the whole matter in the hands of the Executive- that is the Government and Ministers. It gives no voice to the Parliament in this matter. The honourable member for Barker placed these people in the same category as, I suppose, the Ford Motor Co. Pty Ltd factory employees. There are peaks and troughs in their periods of employment. The Government wants to rub people out. The honourable member has misunderstood the fact that the Public Service is part of the political bureaucracy of this country. Anybody who denies that is misunderstanding the situation. There is a need for the Public Service in this country to work unafraid of pressure from the politicians. Yet, because of these provisions public servants will be forever terrified of the pressure of the politicians. It is an area to which no public servants should ever be exposed. They should be able to give advice to the government of the day on questions asked by that government and matters confronting that government without the fear of retribution should there be a change of government which, of course, will occur at the next elections. This aspect is misunderstood by Government members. They believe that they were born to rule. They believe that they will sit on that side of the House forever more. I have news for honourable members, and none of it is good. Honourable members will not. After the next elections, honourable members opposite who survive will be over here and we will be over there. Our numbers will be greatly swelled. We will sit on the Government benches. We would not want to see - 
Debate interrupted. 
-by leave-I trust that at some time the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  will get around to reading the transcript of the evidence that was placed before the Joint Committee on Public Works at the hearing which was held in Oakleigh. He will understand from that that the Public Works Committee did take great cognisance of the submission that was put to it by the people from the central Gippsland area. He will find that representatives of the Central Gippsland Regional Planning Authority were questioned at great length by the Committee and were not treated lightly in any way. Great note was taken of what they said. I trust that the honourable gentleman will read the response to that submission when members of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation came again before the Committee to sum up. When the honourable gentleman does that, he will know the reasons why the Committee did not accept the proposition that was put forward by these people. 
I would just briefly give my own views on this matter. Other members of the Committee may have different views. After hearing all of the things that were said by the central Gippsland people, and recognising that CSIRO is there as a government body to assist industry in research and development, but not necessarily as an appendage to industry, I asked the people from the central Gippsland whether they would agree with my reasoning about CSIRO. This laboratory, which I hasten to add cannot be seen in isolation from the other CSIRO complexes which are already located at Clayton and those that will move there in the future - 
-The honourable member for La Trobe should also read the evidence instead of lying there half asleep and making inane interjections. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for La Trobe will remain silent. 
-The honourable member for La Trobe did not have the benefit of hearing what was said, nor did he study the transcript of the evidence, obviously. The other question that I put to these people was whether they thought that if the CSIRO laboratories were close to industries, for example the paper mills, where there is a lot of research work done on behalf of the paper industry- not Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd- but on behalf of the paper industry, there would not be a lot of pressure placed on the people in the laboratory to solve problems that were occurring at APPM and not necessarily occurring anywhere else. That was true in relation to the question of water resources. It is true that CSIRO does use a lot of water, but the complex does not have to be on a river. The laboratory experiments are using specimens. They are only using handfuls of paper pulp, in vacuum machines; they are producing paper and finding bigger and better ways of doing that. They also intend making lamp posts out of nylon and paper. That rather astounded me, but they are doing it anyhow. There are a lot of things that they are doing that are related to the nearby laboratory complex that exists; and the laboratories that will eventually be placed there because it was planned and because it is close to one of the largest universities in Victoria, the Monash University. 
When I gave my opinion to the Committee, in my view all the advantages lie with siting the laboratory at Clayton. That is not to say that the central Gippsland area of Victoria should be ignored in any way at all. It is an excellent area. It has available all the resources that the honourable member for McMillan mentioned but, in my judgment- the other Committee members may speak for themselves if they so desire- there were benefits in locating the complex at Clayton. Those benefits outweighed any that might come from locating it in the Latrobe Valley. 
Every time I listen to the honourable member ibr Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  I keep reminding myself that I wish that before he lets out the clutch on his mouth he would put his brain into gear. What we heard today was the greatest heap of rhetoric that has been heard in this place in the 10 years that I have been in Parliament. I have not heard an argument before in this place based on so much emotional claptrap as that which the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Denison endeavoured to introduce into this debate today. The honourable member for Denison even had the temerity to try to put words into my mouth. I have been a member of the Australian Labor Party for 20 years and yet he is telling me what the Australian Labor Party policy is on bases. If he comes to see me later I will give him a copy of our policy and he can find out for himself. However, it is certainly not for (he removal of the bases.  Senator Wriedt  did not say that at any time. All that he said was that the only recommendation involving policy change that is under consideration is simply that we would wish the general purposes and functions of the bases and any changes to those purposes and functions be made known to the Australian public. Any reasonable Australian would say that that is a fair enough proposition. I repeat the words that  Senator Wriedt  used, 'the general purposes and functions'. 
My criticism of defence in this country and of the bureaucracy that surrounds defence is its obsession with secrecy. Everything is secret. In recent months I have had the opportunity to have close dealings with the Defence Department through the Joint Committee on Public Works and this obsession with secrecy comes through all the time. If the honourable member for Denison or anybody else wants to know about those bases in Australia, I will tell them where to go. All they have to do is read the record of evidence given to the American Senate Armed Services Committee before which LieutenantGeneral Lee Paschall, Director of the Defence Communications Agency gave testimony. 
The Government is carrying on about this whole matter of the Australian people not being able to know. That is what the Government is saying. It does not trust its fellow Australians. Government members are saying that the Government should breed people like mushrooms, keep them in the dark, and all the rest of it. That is not good enough for the Australian community. It is good enough for the American community to know. The irony here is that we are told that this knowledge is a great threat to American security. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  told us that he is going to America shortly. He will find out, as I did when I was there only a year ago, that what I have said is true. The matter is debated openly in the American community. It was a matter for Congress to talk about, and it does talk about it. The American approach towards defence is not like that of the small-minded people who unfortunately have been in power for too many years since 1970. No thinking Australian could dispute the approach of  Senator Wriedt  and the Labor Party. 
Today Government speakers took me back to the time, before I became a member of Parliament, when I was standing on the streets of Melbourne protesting about Australia's involvement in the war in Vietnam. I was urging the Americans to see sense on that issue. I was not popular with my fellow Australians at that time and I was not very popular in 1969 when I first stood for Parliament. But in 1972 the Australian community finally realised that it had been hoodwinked, with 400 of its sons having been killed in that far-away land. Surely that is not the sort of thing that the Australian community would tolerate. That is going back to the days of the red arrows on a map thrusting down on us. That belongs to the Menzies era. That honourable gentleman has now passed on, but there are those on the other side of this chamber who are so conservative that they think that by reverting to the tactics of the late  Sir Robert  Menzies they can regain the support of this country. 
The Government has lost the support of the Australian community and if it continues with its excessive secrecy it will lose the community's support altogether. I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition led a very good defence- not that defence is really needed- of the actions of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. What  Senator Wriedt  said was cold, hard, sound common sense which is of course anathema to those who want to kick the communist can to satisfy their own political ends. Criticism was made of  Senator Wriedt  speaking to the Australian Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament. If  Senator Wriedt  is to speak only to those to whom he is favourably disposed or to those who are favourably disposed towards him his behaviour will become as incestuous as that of the present Government and its Ministers; he will only talk to his sycophants. Thank goodness  Senator Wriedt  is a man of broader vision and is prepared to discuss any matter with those who have an opposing view. It is quite wrong for people to be critical of any politician in this country for speaking to any group at all. To be critical of that is a clear indication of the Santamaria line which is embraced by the two honourable members on the Government side who have spoken in this debate. I have heard such views from them for years and years. They are still saying those things except that there are now fewer and fewer people in the community who are prepared to place any credence on what they say.  Senator Wriedt  is showing the way by putting his views to opposing parties. The Department of Defence has a mania for secrecy. I have a suspicion that that starts right at the top. I believe that not even Government members are told what happens within that Department. 
Whilst attending public hearings on construction works to be carried out by the Department of Defence, I have had the opportunity to speak to Army officers. I am not speaking about first lieutenants; I am speaking about Army officers of a very high rank. I have had an opportunity to speak with these gentlemen in most convivial surroundings over a cup of coffee 
-Not all the time. Sometimes it was tea. In the course of those conversations, I was astounded at some of the things that I was told. I am noted for being able to keep a confidence and these gentlemen recognised that fact. What I heard really astounded me. I am sorry that I am so good at keeping confidences. If I were to break those confidences, I would lift the lid off the whole of the Department of Defence in Australia. I think that that needs doing. The Minister acquiesces to the sort of secrecy that we are talking about. I know from what I heard today from the two back bench members of the Liberal Party that that is now a general view of the Liberal Party because nobody on that side denied what they said. So, the Liberal Party holds the view that the Australian community is not to be trusted with knowledge relating to the defence of its own land. People thousands of kilometres away across the Pacific Ocean can stand up in public and talk about affairs relating to the defence of Australia. However, the Liberal Party says: 'We must not let the Australian people do that because we cannot trust them'. Well, for the information of the Liberal Party members in this House, I say that the Labor Party does trust the people in the community- and that is disregarding what happened in 1975. The Labor Party trusts the people in the community and it will so far as is possible. 
For those honourable members to talk about the Opposition offering total disclosure about the bases is a complete fabrication. It is a figment of their imagination and has no basis in fact.  Senator Wriedt  never said that; the Labor Party has never said that. What  Senator Wriedt  said was that the information regarding the general purposes and functions of these bases should be made available to the public. If the purpose of the North West Cape base, for example, is to monitor and guide submarines, so be it. I can tell this House of another place to go to find out what those bases are all about. Next time any honourable member goes to Moscow, he should call in to the Kremlin. People there will tell them what these bases are all about. The Government is trying to kid itself when it starts talking about the enormous veil of secrecy that it is putting over the place. Trust the Australian community. I do, and the Labor Party does.  Senator Wriedt  has shown the way. He has shown that the Labor Party is prepared to take the Australian community into its confidence and to advise it- and I repeat the words used by  Senator Wriedt  because they are most important- 'the general purposes and functions of the bases and any changes to those purposes and functions'. So, if a communications base which has the general purpose and function of a communications base ceases to be a communications base and becomes something else, the Australian people ought to be told that it is no longer a communications base and, for example, that it is now part of a navigation system. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
The matter that I raise today is related to health but not to health in the general sense in which we speak about it in this place. My remarks are more related to dental health and particularly to the dental care and health of the young people in our community, the school children. As I am fortunate enought at this great age of mine still to have my own teeth, I know the value of dental care and wholly endorse the school dental scheme which was introduced to bring this sort of benefit to children at the schools, a most appropriate point of delivery for such a service. Quite recently, the honourable member for Murray,  Mr Lloyd,  who is a rather prolific questionasker, put a question on notice to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  seeking the following information: 
What are the details of (a) capital cost, (b) annual expenditure, (c) number of staff and (d) services provided under the (i) Community Health Program and (ii) School Dental Scheme for each project in each Federal electoral division? 

 Mr Hunt, the Minister for Health, answered that question fully. Furthermore, he did all honourable members in the House the honour of sending them a copy of his reply, a voluminous document. Reading it through I found some astounding points. For some reason or other- I make no apology for it- I took a political look at the document. One of the documents, which deals with projects approved for funding under the School Dental Scheme, lists electorate by electorate a number of these dental clinics and facilities for mobile clinics. Being of an orderly mind, I started with the federal division of Ballarat, which was the first electorate on the list. In the most recent redistribution, part of the federal division of Ballarat which was in Ballarat before 1977 came to my electorate. I am referring in particular to the areas of Bacchus Marsh and Woodend. I thought that I would have a look at that area and see how many of the schools there had these facilities. 
I have been diligent in obtaining this information for the schools in my electorate, as honourable members will find as I proceed with my speech. I found that I had a hell of a job to do in the areas that used to be in the electorate of Ballarat- Bacchus Marsh and Woodendbecause there are no dental clinics at all in those areas. In fact, there is none in the whole federal division of Ballarat, not even one. The answer shown in the document for the electorate of Ballarat is 'nil'. That was not a very good start, so I thought I would go through this document and I came to the federal division of Bendigo. 
-The honourable member interjects that I should consider the division of Mallee. I am not referring to the Mallee division because, as yet, my electorate does not take in part of the electorate of Mallee. But if the National Country Party has anything to do with the next redistribution, part of that electorate is certain to be in my electorate, I am sure. Presumably it would be some area that goes along both sides of the Calder Highway. I was also interested in the federal division of Bendigo because, again in the most recent redistribution, places like Romsey, Lancefield, Gisborne, Macedon and Mount Macedon came to my electorate. So I considered the electorate of Bendigo and I thought that perhaps there was some work that needed to be done there in terms of getting dental clinics for the schools. My goodness, there is a lot of work to be done there because in the whole federal division of Bendigo there is only one clinic. It is at Inglewood. Inglewood is a town that is well known to me because my charming wife was born there. I am not going to tell honourable members how many years ago that was. Inglewood is a delightful place some 30 or 40 miles to the north-west of Bendigo. It so happens that Inglewood is a very honoured place in that federal division because it is the only one that has facilities for a mobile clinic. I think the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  is a very active member because it is only under construction! It has not even been established. 
I can see that I have a job to do in Bacchus Marsh, Gisborne, Woodend, Macedon, Mount Macedon and a number of other places. However, having a great deal of persistence, I went through this document further and further. I came to the federal division of Burke. I would like to tell the House that there are six school dental clinics in the federal division of Burke. They are at Broadmeadows West, Coolaroo South, Gladstone Park, Gowrie Park, Moomba Park and Tullamarine. Not only that, there are 19 facilities for mobile clinics in the federal division of Burke but I am not one to brag. In a town that is much larger than Inglewood, Sunbury, which is a thriving and prosperous community as it has been represented by the Australian Labor Party since 1969, there are only two schools. There is the Sunbury primary school and the Sunbury West primary school. As I read through my alphabetical list, I find that both schools have facilities for mobile clinics. Of course, that did not surprise me, although I felt that I had to be fair. 
I kept on going through the document until I came to the federal division of Maribyrnong. In the last redistribution parts of my electorate in Keilor and Melton went into Maribyrnong. Looking further down the list I find that Keilor Heights primary school has a dental clinic. There are facilities for mobile clinics at Keilor public school and Keilor Park public school. There are facilities for mobile clinics at the Melton and Melton South schools. Melton has only two schools. In that electorate of six schools, there is one school dental clinic and facilities for four mobile clinics which the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  a worthwhile member, has inherited. I am sure that he will enhance the situation even further. There was another change in that redistribution and it so happened that part of my electorate went into the federal division of Scullin, which is represented by the honourable  Dr Harry  Jenkins. 
-He is a very capable man. He inherited from me in the Lalor and Thomastown area five school dental clinics- one at Lalor public school, one at Lalor East primary school, one at Lalor North primary school, one at Lalor Park primary school and one at Thomastown East primary school. He has two schools with facilities for mobile clinics- one at Norris Bank school and one at Thomastown East school. The rest of the document did not appeal to me greatly because I could not find any parts in it which relate to the point that I am putting. The point I am making is that irrespective of whether the honourable members representing the areas make representations through the Minister for Health or not, they ought to be taken into account. I hope that the Minister, having had this answer prepared for the honourable member for Murray, will read it. I hope that he will look at the disgraceful performance in respect of areas represented by Liberals for a very long time, where there are no dental facilities. I think that the Minister ought to do something about it. I will certainly be putting to him very strongly that facilities be developed in Gisborne, Macedon, Mount Macedon, Romsey, Lancefield, Woodend, Bacchus Marsh and all these other places where at present school children are denied facilities that are available for those who live near the metropolitan part of Melbourne. 
This now brings me to something which I am sure the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  would agree with. I cannot for the life of me see why children who go to school in a rural area some 40 miles from the centre of the city of Melbourne should be denied basic facilities such as dental hygiene, care and attention simply because they live, as in my electorate, in a remote part. That is just not good enough. If that has been the argument in the past, I refuse to accept it. I will pursue the Minister for Health vigorously and urge him to take into account these areas that as yet are without these facilities. I will be urging him to provide them. I am not too sure that I am going to have a lot of success in view of the scurrilous document which was introduced to this House by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last Thursday night. I was pleased to see that on Tuesday of this week the author of the document came in too, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  All of these cuts that these honourable gentlemen are bringing about are always aimed at those who are in the worst position, the people in the community who are least able to fight back- pensioners, people who require health care, sick people and Aboriginals. In fact, every group in the community that has no clout with this Government. They are not directors of the BHP company, they are not directors of Esso, they are not directors of Utah. They have no clout with the Government and time after time it takes advantage of them. 
I am not prepared to come to this House as the representative of the federal division of Burke and sit silently while the Government does a disservice to the people who reside in my electorate. I will use all of my energies to ensure that the 
Government faces up to its responsibilities to the greatest asset that Australia has- the next generation of Australians from whom our future leaders will come. These children must be allowed to receive the care and attention that ought to be the birthright of every Australian. 
-I refer the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill, clause 7 (2), which states among other things, that 'regulations prescribing a reason' for redeployment of public servants shall not be made except after . . . consultation . . . with . . . organisations representing the interests of employees'. Is the Minister able to confirm that no consultations have taken place with any employee organisation on proclaiming any regulation prescribing reasons pursuant to clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii) and according is the Minister able to assure the Parliament that no instructions have as yet been given to draft any regulations prescribing a reason for the purposes of clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii) of the Bill? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. I refer him to a question asked of him on 
Monday, 4 June, about the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill and his assurance that- and I use his wordsBefore regulations are prepared and promulgated there will be consultation with staff organisations'. I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that the Public Service Board has sent instructions to the Attorney-General's Department requesting officers to draw regulations prescribing 'limited efficiency' as a reason for redeploying staff, and had not these instructions been given before the question was asked of the Minister on Monday? 
It is always interesting to hear the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  address this chamber on matters of industrial relations and this afternoon was no exception. Regardless of all his fine oratory to this chamber it is a shame that his political clout within his own party is so insignificant that he is unable to persuade his political boss, the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  that what he was saying had some merit. I want to initially correct a misapprehension that the honourable member labours under; that is, that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  supports the legislation. Nothing is further from the truth. Neither the honourable member for Port Adelaide nor the Australian Labor Party supports the legislation. The attitude that is adopted by the honourable gentleman for Port Adelaide and by the Labor Party is that we do not oppose the legislation. We do not support it for the very good reason that we do not support the splitting into two portfolios of a Ministry so important as that which dealt with matters relating to industrial relations in this country. The Government did this in December 1978. We do not support that at all. We have made that clear. If we do not support that we cannot support this legislation because it simply broadens the National Labour Consultative Council. I would like to know the name of the person who perpetrated that little trick of including the word 'Labour' in the title. The purpose of the legislation before us is to embrace on the Council the new Ministry that was created in 1978. If we of the Opposition opposed the creation of the new Ministry we must of necessity not favour this Bill. So we do not oppose it because we know that it is part of the machinery, but we do not support it. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Wilmot speaking about there being consultation and not confrontation. Of course, that is the whole attitude of the Labor Party in all of its industrial attitudes and in its attitudes towards the trade union movement. It has always been one of consultation and not confrontation. It is a pity that the Prime Minister of this country did not take some note of that attitude during the recent Telecom dispute when he gave strict instructions to Telecom that it was not to negotiate with the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association-with the union it was not to negotiate. If what the honourable member for Wilmot is telling us is true- and I believe that it is- that is, that negotiation will obviate industrial disputes rather than confrontation, it is a pity that his own Prime Minister did not embrace the same creed. We would have fewer industrial disputes in Australia if there were consultation rather than the continued confrontation as is practised by at least two Premiers- in Western Australia and Queensland. 
I have just recently returned from Japan and from speaking with industrialists in that country it would seem to me that this neat little ploy of stirring up industrial strife that the Government has got going for it to divert the attention of the community away from the Government's own inadequacies is starting to backfire on it. It might be all very well for domestic consumption, as the honourable member for Wilmot put it to us, that the Labor Party is associated with the unions and therefore the Labor Party must be held responsible for the industrial disputes that exist. That is a nice little stratagem, a nice little ploy, and it is probably working. I do not deny that it is probably working. But the end result of that is that in every news bulletin that one reads in overseas newspapers and reports, industrial disputes in Australia are highlighted. That in turn is being used as a weapon by those who wish to exploit the natural resources of this country, including its people for their own benefit. The Government has been very successful in this area too. It is the Government which foments industrial disputes in this country because the unions have nothing to gain out of industrial disputes. It is not a very great pleasure to go home to one's wife after being on strike for a week with no pay in one's pocket. I can say from experience that that is the case. 
The unions have no vested interest in creating industrial disputes. It is the present Government and governments of that colour throughout Australia that have a very real interest in creating industrial disputes. They are the traitors to Australia. The traitors in Australia are those governments which foment industrial disputes. The governments of Australia which bring down provocative legislation well knowing that it will create a dispute are the traitors. Those governments of Australia, amongst the eight of them, that take provocative actions, that encourage employers not to negotiate but to confront, are the traitors because they are doing Australia irreparable damage overseas. They like to turn their wrath upon the unions and place everything at the heels of the trade union movement. As I pointed out, that is done purely for domestic consumption. 
The whole idea of a consultative council has a great deal of merit. But it must be attended by people of goodwill, as the honourable member for Wilmot pointed out to the House. He said that originally the legislation had been brought about in order to reduce the number of disputes in Australia. Among other things he said that that was one of the purposes of its existence. But in the next breath, after he had patted the Government on the back for taking some action to reduce the number of industrial disputes, he pointed out that the industrial situation had worsened since the Government had been in office, and I think everybody in Australia knows that to be a truism. Whilst the Government, through its private members in this place, would like to put the point of view to the public that it stands above all this, I put the contrary point of view. I would point the finger directly at the Government as being the instigator of industrial unrest in this country. It is well known that the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who is sitting at the table, curiously enough does not seem to do very much in industrial relations. It seems to be his colleague, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who has a lot to say about trade unions. I freely admit that I have a lot of time for the Minister for Industrial Relations. I believe him to be honest and I believe him to take a keen interest in the subject that he has specialised in over the last few years. 
-As the honourable member for Lalor said, I have answered my own question. I know why the Department was divided. I think everybody in Australia knows and I think the Minister for Industrial Relations knows. The reason is that he is too honest. He was looking at the problems and endeavouring to understand them. He would not take action that he considered to be ungentlemanly in order to stir up industrial disputes in this country for political advantage and domestic consumption. 
-He is not a confrontationist. He is a man who looks at problems and endeavours to understand them. It is for that very good reason that he was moved sideways. He is an old school chum of the Prime Minister, so he could hardly cop the axe. The Prime Minister handled that one very neatly by dividing the Department and shuffling the honest Minister off to one side. He introduced another Minister and I am not implying in any way that he is dishonest, but the man does have a reputation for confrontation as he had in his previous portfolio and as he has demonstrated to us quite clearly in his handling of his present portfolio. It is while there are people like that associated with the NLCC, while there are sitting around that table Government representatives who are bent on confrontation, not consultation, that the spirit of the legislation will not work. It is hardly to be wondered at that the trade union movement is not going to be snowed and it is hardly to be wondered at that the trade unions did refuse to sit around the table while the Government was in such an intransigent mood. 
It would do this House and the nation good if there were a full-scale debate on the whole subject of industrial disputes because they are not doing anybody any good, and everybody admits that. But the difference between the Government and the Opposition is that the Opposition has a clear endeavour and an honest approach to the subject and would confront such situations with a spirit of bringing about conciliation between all of the parties rather than driving them into arbitration as is the attitude of the present Government. While that situation exists, while that attitude prevails within the Government, there will continue to be industrial disputes in this country which will benefit nobody. 
There is no quarrel with the principle of the legislation, as I pointed out, provided that it is administered by people of goodwill. There is no opposition in the Labor Party to the Bill now before the House which seeks to include the new Minister on the Council. Our opposition is to the claim that there is a need for that Minister. We do not believe that there is. We believe that the addition has been made for a particular purpose and we believe that the eight months that have passed since December 1978 have indicated that purpose quite clearly. The Prime Minister seems to have a predilection for appointing Ministers for everything. He did that with the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  by making him the Minister for all sorts of things- rag bags- in Europe and that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  believe you me, is a matter of derision amongst our overseas trading partners located in the Asian region- in the Pacific Ocean, not on the European continent. As that is a matter of derision amongst our overseas trading partners, so too is this whole question of the appointment of a Minister to deal with these matters. There are no real reasons for it. It is a window dressing exercise. One could go right through the Community Youth Support Scheme, right through the whole bit, to show that it is window dressing. There has been absolutely no achievement by the Minister responsible for its administration. I leave it on that note, that the Labor Party does not oppose the legislation but it certainly does not support it. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
How many times have cranes been examined by qualified examiners, as distinct from routine checks by drivers, at (a) Garden Island Dockyard, Sydney and (b) Williamstown Naval Dockyard, Melbourne, during each year from 1 972 to date. 
If examinations are less frequent in 1979 than in past years, what is the reason. 
The matter I wish to raise tonight concerns a very great Australian, the late  Dr Herbert 
Vere Evatt, a many whose greatness has never been fully and adequately recognised by this country. He was a great man, if for no other reason than the fact that he was the first  President  of the world, being the first  President  of the United Nations General Assembly. To my mind that in itself warrants great recognition. Yet this country and successive governments of this country have never afforded him this recognition. An H. V. Evatt memorial is to be established shortly. That brings to mind another Australian, the late  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies to whom some people seem to pay homage, although I certainly do not. The present corrupt Government, without consulting the public or the Parliament, appropriated $2m to set up the R. G. Menzies Memorial Foundation. The State governments were invited by the Commonwealth Government to contribute to that foundation. The Commonwealth Government compounded the felony by saying that it would match, dollar for dollar, the amount contributed by the States. It compounded the felony even further by saying that if members of the community contributed to this foundation their contributions would be tax deductible. 
I am not here to disparage the late gentleman who, for such a long time- a record period- was Prime Minister of this country. As an aside perhaps I could say that he led this country into some great disasters in the time of his stewardship. This present corrupt Government has seen fit to honour such a gentleman and ignore perhaps the greatest son that Australia has ever spawned, the late  Dr Herbert  Vere Evatt. Among other things he was a High Court judge and was a Leader of the Opposition in this very chamber. As I have already stated he was the first  President  of the world. To me the Government's action smacks of political patronage. It seems that the only reason that the  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies Foundation was set up was because he founded the Liberal Party. If he were alive today I am sure that he would have a heart attack if he saw the mismanagement of the once great party that he set up, driving a wedge into the once great coalition that existed in this country. It is a matter that the Government should take on board. 
I am pleased to see that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is sitting at the table. It is probably right in his court to make these sorts of allocations and to set up such things as tax deductions for people who contribute to such a foundation. It reminds one of the attitude in Queensland where people have seen fit to set up a fund to support the National Country Party in that State. People are contributing to it. If that contribution buys a building, the building is named after them and they have their portrait hung in the foyer. I cannot imagine why, but they are even invited to have lunch with the Premier of that State. I cannot imagine a greater penalty than having lunch with the Premier of Queensland. The Government, and particularly the State Government in Queensland, should be in a position where it does not attract allegations that people can gain favours from the Government. We all know that with 19 per cent of the vote in that State the National Country Party is able to govern, that people can gain favours by making contributions to such a fund. 
There are two separate issues that I wish to raise. One is the question of the recognition of the late  Dr Herbert  Vere Evatt. This Government ought to give credit to one of its greatest sons, and if it sees fit to set up a foundation for the late  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies it ought to see fit to take the same sort of action and to allow the same benefits to people who contribute to a fund to commemorate the late  Dr Herbert  Vere Evatt. I would go so far as to say that the memory of that man is still so strong in the minds of all Australians that such a foundation would be the richest and wealthiest foundation in Australia because people would subscribe freely. I understand that they are a bit reluctant to subscribe to the existing fund. Subscribing freely to such a foundation would provide benefit for other people and that would have been the dearest wish of  Dr Evatt  because he lived for other people not for self-aggrandisement. He tried to make sure that this world was a better world for those who followed him. 
-I ask the Minister for National Development: Is it a fact that the Government's 1977 oil policy added between $200 and $500 to farm operating costs; that in 1978-79 increased fuel costs added up to $800 to the cost of running a farm; and that the 1 July price rise for Australian oil will add on average about a further $1,000 a year to farm costs? Is it also a fact that as a result, fuel price increases over the past two years have added over $2,500 to the annual operating costs of Queensland sugar farms, $3,300 to the costs of Western Australian wheat farmers and over $1,200 to costs for graziers in the high rainfall zone? In view of this, I ask the Minister whether he will give an assurance that rural producers will not be subject to continued increases in the cost of fuel produced from Australian oil, increases which reduce producers' profitability and damage the economies of non-metropolitan towns. 
There seems to be a good deal of inconsistency in the two matters that have just been raised. Whilst I do not profess any great love for the situation in Northern Ireland, it must be admitted that it exists. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  just proposed to this House that the person Murray, whoever he may be, ought to be expelled from this country for holding certain views. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  just prior to the honourable member for Bendigo making his remarks told us about an alleged Nazi who has been welcomed into the breast of the Liberal Party. I do not think that one can have it both ways. The honourable member for Bendigo as a member of the Liberal Party ought to make up his mind which way he will go on that. 
Speaking of inconsistencies, I refer to the speech made prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner by the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  as his contribution to the Budget debate. At that time the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  who is a member of the National Country Party, occupied the Chair. I was in the chamber yesterday when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was speaking. He was chastised by  Mr Speaker  for calling the Government dishonest and for using other expressions that the  Speaker  said did not improve the tone of the Parliament.  Mr Speaker  requested that the Leader of the Opposition should desist from using those phrases and find alternative ones. I do not know what the situation is when the occupant of the Chair changes. I do not know whether  Mr Speaker's  rulings are adhered to by yourself,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and other  Deputy  Speakers or whether perhaps  Mr Speaker  briefs the person who takes the Chair when he retires from the chamber. 
It became very obvious that the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia was not chastised. He is the leader of the National Country Party but he was not chastised by the honourable member for Cowper, who is also a member of the National Country Party, for using the words 'the dishonest Opposition', 'the hypocritical attitude of the Labor Party' and a number of other expressions. I have heard  Mr Speaker  call the Leader of the Opposition to order when he has used such expressions. It makes the position of members on this side of the chamber completely and utterly untenanble if the Chair changes its attitude towards expressions and phrases, depending on who occupies the Chair and furthermore, depending on who is addressing the chamber. I take this opportunity to raise that matter with you. 
I hope that  Mr Speaker  will avail himself of the opportunity to read the speech made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia, the Leader of the National Country Party. He will know from the record that the honourable member for Cowper, a member of the National Country Party, was occupying the Chair at the time. He will recall the occasion when he chose to chastise the Leader of the Opposition for using expressions which were freely used today by the  Deputy  Prime Minister. He even used expressions that somebody as eloquent with the language as myself had not even thought of. I am grateful to him for that lesson. If it is fitting for the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia to use such expressions then it seems to me that it is fitting for the Opposition to use the same language to describe the Government. Frankly, I think 'dishonest' is probably too kind an expression to use in relation to it. That is the matter I wished to bring to the attention of the House. 
In the very short space of time that is left to me I wish to raise a parochial but very important matter. One hears a lot today about big government. That seems to connote that governments collect taxes. A school in a disadvantaged area of my electorate quite recently had its dental and health services for the children withdrawn, ostensibly because governments were not prepared to provide funds. A great number of medical disorders now have been found among those children because so-called big government has chosen to withdraw funds that would have provided medical treatment for those children. If that is the alternative to big government then I will take big government any day. 
I raise a matter of privilege. It has come to my notice that in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 23 August 1979  Mr Justice  Begg issued an order in the case of Uren v. John Fairfax and Sons Ltd. The effect of the order, as I understand it, was to permit the use in court for a limited purpose of certain records of the proceedings of this House. It is well known that, by the 9th Article of the Bill of Rights, it was declared: 
That the freedom of speech, and debates or proceedings in Parliament, ought not to be impeached or questioned in any court or place out of Parliament. 
That is a direct quote from page 77 of the 19th Edition of May's  Parliamentary Practice.  It seems to me  Mr Speaker,  that the action of  Mr Justice  Begg may have infringed the privileges of this House. I ask for your ruling whether this is an appropriate matter to be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
-In the closing moments of a speech interrupted by a week's adjournment the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  left no doubt in the minds of members of the Australian Labor Party that the rift between the once great Liberal Party and the once powerful National Country Party is wider than it has ever been before. From the comments of 'hear, hear' that supported the honourable member's remarks it seems that the rift is not only in Victoria and Queensland but is general throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. Frankly, I cannot think of a nicer bunch of people to suffer such a fate. 
The House is considering the 1978-79 Budget. There can be no doubt that it is a big business Budget. All its provisions are aimed at enlarging those businesses that are already large, such as the oil companies and the mining companies. It is generally believed in the community, although not by myself, that they make hefty donations to the coffers of the Liberal Party. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has never denied the direction of the Budget. He justifies it on the basis that as long as business is big there will be employment opportunities in the community. He makes that bald statement with no justification. In fact most of the statements that trip off the tongues of the Prime Minister and members of his Ministry have no justification. The Prime Minister cannot point to any company in the world which has become larger or has increased its profits and as a consequence increased its work force. That does not work. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Prime Minister know that it does not work, as does the Liberal Party; but it sounds plausible. For this reason, the Government is able to rip off funds from the taxpayers, the wage earners in the community, and make them available to the very large companies. 
This Budget is definitely an anti-family Budget. It has been so described by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  This description has been repeated in the Press throughout the country. That is not surprising. The Liberal Party has never shown any great propensity to care for the family, the integral unit in our whole society. In this Budget the Government went overboard in making sure that that was understood. There has been no adjustment to the family allowance, which is a very important payment. It is a compensation made to people on the lower income scale, those who have families and who are suffering more than any other section of the community because of their responsibilities and their willingness to face up to them. The House has just concluded a debate on energy policy and petrol prices. I thought that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West ) absolutely wiped the floor with the Minister for National Development (Mr Newman)  and his supporter in that debate. They put the lie to the proposition that all the subsidies paid to oil companies are necessary in order to bring about more exploration for oil. I would like to explode that myth. It has always seemed to me- it has yet to be proved differently to me- that oil companies will drill for oil where they believe that they will make a profit from finding it and where they believe oil to be. It does not matter how much money they are paid or how much or how little they are likely to obtain for a gallon of oil. They will continue to explore for oil, as they have since time immemorial. 
The Government has done two things. It has given the oil companies a higher margin of profit than they had before. It has justified that on the basis that they would explore more diligently. They have not done so. The Government has also gained a windfall tax to which it is not entitled. It has levied this tax on one section of the community only, the purchasers of petrol. It is well known that a year ago it cost $9 to fill the tank of an average car in Australia with fuel. It is also well known that now it costs $17 to fill the same tank with fuel. The difference of $8, which is almost a 100 per cent increase, is not attributable entirely to price rises that have been granted by the various authorities. Most of it is attributable to a government rip-off in the form of another tax. 
The Prime Minister glibly comments that people will be paying less tax by the end of this year. Nobody believes him. I do not think he even believes himself. Even the Treasurer is starting to become a victim of his own propaganda. He is almost starting to sound sincere when he alleges that people will be paying less tax by the end of the year. But what is he talking about? Where does tax start and finish? If he is talking only about personal income tax he is wrong. When a government takes action to raise revenue, it is in effect levying a tax. The Government took action to raise more revenue from crude oil produced in Australia. So an additional tax is being paid by the motorist. Because the public transport systems in Australia by and large are fairly poor most people are driven to the point of using motor cars. In any case most of the goods that they buy have been carried on the back of a motor vehicle so that everyone is paying the extra tax. 
The Government has taken action to increase health insurance payments. It has made health insurance more costly. This is also a tax. It was brought about by government action. Through changes to the health insurance system the Government has made it more costly for the delivery of health services. Again, because this has resulted from government action it is a tax. I could go on and on. This Government claims to be a low tax government. It will go down in the annals of history as the highest tax government Australia has ever seen. That includes all the excesses of the Menzies era and the high taxation paid by the Australian people during that time because of the extraordinary inflation that took place during the 1950s. 
-The honourable member was still in three-cornered pants at that time. If he cares to speak to his parents about it they will remind him. It was during the 1950s that Australia suffered its greatest inflation and taxes rose to their highest level. This Government tries to explain its own inadequacies, inabilities inefficiencies and dereliction of duty by going back beyond more than four years of uninterrupted Liberal-Country Party government and blaming what happened during the time of the Labor Government. The people of Australia will not fall for that argument. At all turns of the wheel there is talk about a need for confidence. Of course there is a need for confidence. Our fine economists will never make anything work unless there is confidence in the community about the future. The Prime Minister has the lowest popularity rating of any Prime Minister that this country has ever had at any time in its history. He has had the lowest credibility rating and the widest credibility gap of any person in Australia. He tells us that there is a need for confidence. I would go so far as to say that because of the Prime Minister's actions and those of his Government the people of this country have as much confidence in him and his Government as housewives had in door-to-door salesmen during the time of the Boston Strangler. There is just no way they can have confidence in a government which twists and turns like a snake on a red hot plate. One never knows where it is going next. That is the sort of thing that has upset the people of Australia and made them afraid. 
People are not prepared to exude the confidence they did during the time of the Whitlam Government. They are squirrelling their money away to make sure that when the axe drops on them they will have some money in the bank to sustain themselves. So for the Prime Minister of Australia to be talking in that vein is absolute and arrant nonsense. So long as he and his Government remain in office there will never be confidence, lt is all very well to talk about foreign capital coming into the country- one wonders about that, too- but unless the ordinary people have confidence, pull their dollars out of the bank and start buying, then all the confidence in the world will come to no good. When I opened the mail today and finally sorted through it I came across a very interesting document called  Building Comment,  Number 4 of 31 August 1979. It is compiled and distributed by the Master Builders Association of Victoria and edited by Oscar Fabian. It is too long to quote in full but in part, under the heading 'Economic Factors Dampen Building Demand ', it states: 
The 1979 Budget reaffirmed the Federal Government's economic policy stance of contractionary fiscal and monetary policy, a firm monetarist commitment to restraining money supply growth and the Treasury-inspired conviction that the level of real wages must be reduced as a pre-condition to reducing the level of unemployment. 
I will have something to say about that in a moment. It continues: 
The Government 's economic strategy relies on private sector recovery. The basic premise is that reducing the inflation rate will inspire business confidence, and hence investment, and will boost overseas confidence to the extent that the resultant capital inflow will alleviate balance of payments problems and prevent deterioration in the international standing of the Australian dollar. 
The problem is that with economic growth, in terms of Gross Domestic Product, expected to be 2-2'A per cent in 1979-80, (a rate which Treasury admits is hardly sufficient to absorb the growth in the workforce let alone help to reduce unemployment), and an inflation rate of at least 10 percent, the prospects for business and consumer confidence are not good. 
This is not taken from some radical left wing journal. It continues: 
Given the expected rate of inflation and the estimated 9 percent growth in average weekly earnings (which some economists have estimated will reduce real after tax disposable incomes by 3 percent) the level of industrial disputation can be expected to remain high in 1 979-80. The Building industry is particularly vulnerable to industrial disputes. 
Let me analyse what is said there. On two occasions in that passage acknowledgement is given that there will be less after-tax disposable income available to people in a year's time. This is in complete contradiction of what the Prime Minister and the Treasurer keep telling us. I repeat again that this is not some mad radical left wing rag; it is compiled by the Master Builders 
Association of Victoria, a very respectable body. It gives a warning which this Government should heed, that unless disposable income either remains the same or improves then the Government can expect the people to take what they want, to use every method at their disposal to get what they want, namely, a reasonable disposable income. The Treasurer used a new expression this morning. He called it a cruelly selfish wages policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The Government is walking around with its eyes closed if it ignores the factor I just referred to. Working class people of Australia are not going to stand by and see their purchasing power eroded by the action of this Government. The article continues: 
The incentive for businesses to invest in building projects. 

<graphic href="115131197909114_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

especially large ones, is as much affected by industrial relations realities as by the prospects for the inflation rate. 
When the Treasurer announced that the targeted budget deficit in 1979-80 will be $2,193m, a $l,285m reduction on the actual deficit in 1978-79, the Federal Government again rejected the notion that the solution to our economic problems is to stimulate aggregate demand and bring about a reduction in unemployment by allowing an expansion of the budget deficit and by cuts in indirect taxation. 
Sound advice. The Labor Party has been giving it for some time. Now the tycoons of business in this world have finally found out that the socialists know what they are talking about. The cost of housing is very important to families. I wish to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which is included in this document. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909114_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

-The table shows the high transaction costs for a house and land package costing $30,000 financed on a first mortgage of $20,000, It is very interesting to note that the highest costs in Australia are in Victoria. Government charges are highest in Victoria, yet there is a Liberal Government in Victoria that boasts about the fact that people want to own their own home. That Government is doing a hell of a lot to help them if it is charging people more than any other State government! Solicitors' fees in Victoria are the highest in Australia. Financial institution charges are marginally the same as they are in other States. The table highlights quite clearly the costs for young people in purchasing their own homes in Australia and how it is absolutely beyond the pale. 
Probably I will not have time to raise the way in which this Government has cut back on its funding for all sorts of training programs- the National Employment and Training scheme and the rest for young people in Australia, but when the Opposition speaks about unemployed people it is speaking about young people in our community between the ages of 18 and 25. They are the people who are not finding employment. They are the people who have never had any work experience. They are the people who, at 20 years of age, go for jobs calling for applicants of around 20 years of age with 15 years experience in that type of job. Those people have no hope of getting a job and this Government is doing nothing to help them. 
The industrial relations that were mentioned in that article by the Master Builders Association is a very important matter. I have statistics from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in 1976. In any given year these percentages seldom change. A break-up of the causes of disputes in 1976 shows that wage disputes were responsible for 26 per cent of industrial disputes, management behaviour was responsible for 23.5 per cent of industrial disputes, inter-union rivalries and demarcation disputes of one kind or another constituted 1 5 per cent of the disputes, and working conditions and safety matters constituted 12 per cent of disputes. Even to the casual listener it is obvious that most strikes in Australia are not caused by wage demands but are caused by matters such as management behaviour, inter-union rivalries- this Government does not support the amalgamation of unions and so stands in the way of union amalgamation which would cut out demarcation disputes- and safety matters. Safety issues are the cause of oneeighth of all disputes. Surely nobody is going to be critical of working men and women not wanting to work in situations that are not considered safe. Yet this Government, for its own domestic and political purposes, likes to promote the line that all of the difficulties in Australia are brought about by the industrial action of these militant trade unions. 
A contrary view to that has been expressed by Professor Cifford Donn, an economist at Macquarie University in New South Wales. In the Melbourne  Herald  of 14 February 1977 he wrote: 
It is probably safe to conclude that Australia is among a group of the most strike-prone Western countries. That group includes Britain, Canada, Finland, Ireland, Italy and the USA. More specific statements about Australia's strike rating cannot be justified on the basis of existing data. 
That is very interesting. It was stated by a professor of economics. He continued: 
In the area of costs, the ILO data vastly exaggerates Australia's strike losses in the strike-prone industries of mining, manufacturing, construction and transport. A more valid measure of the overall economic impact of strikes would include all employees in all of our industries. When this measure is used, the ILO figure of 1,390 strike days per 1,000 employees is cut by roughly half. If we compare this with the average work year, we can show that approximately one-third of 1 per cent of all potential work-times was lost because of industrial disputation in 1975. Thus, less time is lost through strikes than through industrial accidents, a single national holiday, or the common cold. Even this onethird of 1 per cent of work-time lost exaggerates the economic cost of strikes to society. Lost production is often made up out of overtime or out of inventories maintained for such purposes. Competitors may fill the gap. Often, production dosen't even slow down during a dispute. On occasion, strikes may be precipated at times of slack economic activity when output is unwanted by the employer, i.e. strikes may substitute for temporary retrenchments. 
It is a bit sad that those truisms- nobody can dispute them- are not taken into account by this Government which, I repeat, for purely domestic purposes tries to give to the world and has been successful in giving to the world the impression that industrial disputes are ruining Australia. The good professor went on to say: 
Australia is not peculiarly strike-prone. Strikes are not a great economic burden and are not a major drag on productivity when management is competent and creative. Finally, the strike often remains the only effective way for employees to resist the unilateral will of employers. Thus, the right to strike constitutes a fundamental freedom in a democratic society. 
Having said that, I shall quote Henry Lawson who said in a poem: 
So we must fly a rebel flag 
As others did before us 
And we must sing a rebel song 
And join in rebel chorus. 
We'll make the tyrants 
Feel the sting 
Of those that they would throttle. 
They needn't say the fault is ours 
If blood should stain the wattle. 
-I address a question to the Prime Minister. It follows his answer to the previous question put to him this afternoon. In his answer he reiterated his belief in the apolitical nature of the Public Service. I ask whether he recalls his statement on 29 April when launching the ethnic television service when he said: 
I will be taking a close personal interest in this initiative. 
Is this why he has appointed his senior staff adviser,  Mr Petro  Georgiou, to a senior position on the Ethnic Television Review Panel? If so, what are the terms and conditions of his employment? 
About the only thing that can be said about the speech made by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  is that it went for 15 minutes. I am not surprised that the Government supporters are still saying the same things as they were saying four years ago. They are still saying: These are the causes of unemployment and the causes of the recession'. Unemployment is increasing at the rate of a thousand people a week and inflation is going through the roof. I do not know when they will learn that all of the policies that they have been following for four years have been so wrong, and will change direction and take advice from someone who has knowledge about the economy, such as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and almost every other member sitting on the Opposition side of the House. The list is so long that I could not mention them all without running out of time. It would seem that if the Government did have a real intention to get this country back on its feet it would certainly change direction, because the direction in which it has been going for four years is wrong. 
When we consider the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  it is not surprising that such a divisive and provocative statement was made. It was mouthed by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  but it was written personally by the Prime Minister. As the debate clearly indicates, Government members believe that there ought to be a reduction in wages. I think that we should have a look at what has been said by honourable members on the Government side who have spoken in the debate. The Minister for Industrial Relations, who led the debate, is a gentleman farmer- a wealthy grazier- in addition to drawing a salary as a member of this Parliament. Apparently he finds it difficult to live on the generous salary that he gets as a member of this Parliament. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  is a former party functionary who knows more about the donors to the coffers of the Liberal Party than he knows about how families survive on less than $ 1 80 a week. 
Let us have a look at the background of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown),  who had the temerity to call members of the Opposition in this place hypocrites. That was the word that he used. He also seems to find that the rather generous salary which he receives for appearing in this place when he does insufficient to live on. I might tell the people outside this Parliament that it is certainly more than $180 a week. Honourable members opposite should get that figure fixed in their minds because the people at that income level are the ones whom they are having a go at. The honourable member for Diamond Valley is also a full time employers' advocate, appearing for them time and time again. I am assured by my legal colleagues that he earns in excess of $ 100 a day for doing so. I say this not out of envy, because I do not care how much a year he earns, but just to point out the hypocrisy of the Government members who rise and talk in this debate, who earn a very generous salary and who want to screw people who are the backbone of this country for even less than $180 a week. In terms of propriety, I am somewhat disappointed that that honourable gentleman did not declare his interest before he spoke in the debate. There was not a word of it. He stood up and piously spoke about the people in this country having to make sacrifices. Why does he not make a sacrifice and give up his law practice? Never in a million years would he do that. 
The honourable member for Cowper spoke about a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. Is he to be the judge? I would hate him to sit in judgment on me. Does he ever go back to the farmers in his constituency and say to them: 'The housewives in the city have to pay too much for meat'? My wife reports to me, when she does the shopping in the city in which we live, the City of Broadmeadows: 'I see groups of women standing outside the butcher's shop, looking in the window for the cheapest meat to buy'. Is the honourable member for Cowper going to say to those who grow the meat- those people whom he represents: 'You will reduce your income. You will sell your meat at a lower price'? No. Instead, he says to those who are expected to buy the meat: 'You will accept lower wages'. Honourable members should look at that and understand the paradox. Unless the working people, who are the bulk buyers in this country, receive equitable purchasing power, his farmers will never do very well. Yet he stands up and tells those who are going to buy the product of the people whom he represents that they ought to be receiving less money in their weekly wages. Where is the logic in that statement? The honourable member for Cowper went on to talk about the Telecom dispute - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The House will come to order. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  As you understand, I am not really used to speaking above interjections! I would have thought that the honourable member for Cowper, being a member of this Parliament, would have made some study of the Constitution of this country. I would like him, in his spare time, to have a look at the Constitution, particularly Part V, section 51 (xxxv), which says - 
-If the parrot from Bendigo could contain himself for a minute, he might even learn something. 
-I realise that he is a slow learner, but I am prepared to give him a go. 
-I refer to the Press statement of the Minister for National Development of11 September in which he said that 47 projects involving funds totalling $ 17.48m had been approved under the Commonwealth Decentralised Development Program. I ask: Is it a fact that funds in excess of $5m have gone to1 5 projects in electorates held by seven Ministers of the Government? Is it also a fact that four of the six projects funded in Tasmania are located in the Minister's own electorate of Bass? 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has left the chamber. He made a provocative speech this evening. If he really wants to go ahead with his invitation, I remind him that our players in Victoria can stand up for 50 minutes until half-time whereas those fellows in New South Wales can last for only 40 minutes and for most of that time they are lying on the ground anyhow. The honourable member was in some doubt last week as to who would be playing in the Grand Final in Sydney. If he has any fortitude at all I advise him to put his money where his mouth is and get every penny he can on Collingwood next Saturday. Even after playing three games in a row the Collingwood players would be quite happy to go to New 
South Wales and show the people there how to play football. 
I did not interrupt the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  when he was speaking because in the 10 years I have been a member of this place I have learned that it is very rude to interrupt while a member is making his maiden speech. That is the reason I did not interject during his speech. He perhaps is crowing a little too early in his comments to the House tonight. He would do well to take note of the words of exPremier Dunstan of South Australia on his return from a sojourn overseas when he said that he wept for South Australia as a consequence of the decision taken by the people in that State recently. Those words of course will ring true in the ears of South Australians in the short time that Premier Tonkin and his Government will be in office.  Mr Dunstan  commented further that the people who constitute the Tonkin Government were not of the nineteenth century but of an era even prior to that. The judgment of a man who is so respected throughout Australia cannot be ignored. That was his comment on his return to Australia. I join with him and I am sure all thinking people in Australia weep for the bad decision that was taken in South Australia that weekend. The South Australian people will come to weep for themselves before very long as the dead hand of the conservatives in that State tightens its grip around the throats of the workers of South Australia. 
I wish to raise the matter of telephones and telephone charges in respect of a proposed scheme by Telecom called Access 80. It will provide some benefit to people in fringe areas around the metropolitan area, but it also will create anomalies. One anomaly that has been brought to my attention involves the people in the very fine township of Woodend which was very poorly represented for some years but is now in safe hands. Woodend is about 43 miles from Melbourne. A neighbouring town called Romsey is about the same distance from Melbourne. Under the new scheme the people of Romsey will be able to ring through to Melbourne but the people of Woodend will receive no benefit at all in respect of calls to Melbourne. Curiously enough the people of Woodend will be aligned with Bendigo. I have spoken with the tradespeople in Woodend. They came to me in rather large numbers and pointed out to me a fact that I had already known. There was some difficulty in understanding and explaining the new arrangements. The shopkeepers, the tradespeople and the commercial interests in Woodend are most distressed at the actions of this Government because of telephone chargesthere are also other reasons- and one cannot blame them. 
The logical course would be for the Woodend telephone system to be aligned with Melbourne whence the people of Woodend draw all of their supplies and with which they do all their commercial business. The people of Woodend will remain disadvantaged albeit they are the same distance from Melbourne as the neighbouring town of Romsey which will benefit from the new scheme. I trust that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  will take some notice of what is being said in this House and will re-assess Access 80 before it is put into operation to make sure that anomalies such as the one that has been brought to my attention are removed and equal benefits applied to those people who live equal distances from Melbourne. It can be clearly shown that the line of communication and the line of business in Woodend are with Melbourne rather than with some satellite city. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
New terminal complex at Coolangatta aerodrome, Queensland; and 
Darwin patrol boat base at Larrakeyah, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-I join in the debate on this clause because of the most unsatisfactory explanation given to the chamber by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has quite eloquently pointed out where the honourable member for Dundas was at fault in law. The honourable member for Dundas did not talk about the name of the Bill or the nature of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which is charged with the responsibility of settling industrial disputes. In the closing stages of his address, he started to talk about pacesetting and about one wage being aligned with every other wage in the community. He left the very clear impression in my mind that he sees the role of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as one of trying to rectify the mess that the Australian economy is in, but it is a mess which has been caused by other action of government. It is the responsibility of government to correct that mess and it should not delegate that responsibility to dispute-settling organisations such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The honourable member for Dundas talked about what men earn, what they are able to ask for and what their employers are able to pay them for welding pipelines or diving deep into the sea or for doing a myriad of other tasks around the country that neither I nor any other member of this chamber, including the honourable member for Dundas, would be inclined to do anyhow. But it seems to me that the question of what wages those people should be getting is a separate issue. 
I am very suspicious of this Government at all times and I have never made any secret of it. For this clause to exist indicates quite clearly to me that the Government has some nefarious purpose in mind. If it has not, why is the clause there? Why does the Government want to put the commissioners in the position of being lame duck adjudicators or lame duck umpires who must sit there and hear argument from both sides in a dispute, come to their own conclusions after hearing that argument and decide where the solution lies, but then must say to the contestants: 
Well, look, I am terribly sorry about this, gentlemen or ladies, but I cannot give you a decision even though I have heard all the arguments because the Act now says that I must consult with my presidential member'. 
I will not go into a lengthy argument about the meaning of the word 'consult'. That is an argument that could go on from now until the end of time and a solution probably would still not be reached. I simply make this point: It looks suspicious in the eyes of those who have put their argument to a commissioner if they know that, having heard their argument, the commissioner is required to consult. The world 'consult' can be used in its lightest sense to include perhaps asking a presidential member to have a cup of tea or writing him a letter. It can have any sort of meaning. But the point I am making is that it undermines the authority of the commissioner who until now has been respected by those who have appeared before him.  His  decisions have been respected. But I put it to you,  Mr Chairman,  for your consideration: How can that respect continue to exist if the parties know that the Act requires that a person who has heard nothing, who is ignorant of the issues involved, must be consulted? 
The honourable member for Dundas spoke about Commissioner Deverall. Again, it is a matter of judgment as to whether Commissioner Deverall acted properly or improperly. I am one of those who believe that he acted quite properly in the circumstances of the case, and I think that his decision was wise. Quite clearly the Government does not think that he acted properly or wisely and quite obviously the honourable member for Dundas does not think so either; otherwise he would not have raised that as the specific lone case in point out of 70 years of conciliation and arbitration in this country and would not have given that as a reason for this clause being inserted. I am implacably opposed to this clause. There is no attempt to define the word 'consult', although I may be prepared to accept the argument that it is not possible to do so. 
Fine legal argument was put by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. It must always be remembered that the commissioners must be seen with dignity and respect by those who come before them in the spirit of settling a dispute. Neither that dignity nor that respect can exist if it is known that the commissioners, before they come to a decision, must consult with somebody else. I repeat: I do not care what that word consult' means; its very existence is enough to be offensive to the parties who go before a commissioner. There is no justification for it. It is an over-reaction to past action. I sometimes wonder where this clause arose. As well as being in close consultation with the trade union movement, on occasions I do have conversations with those from employer organisations. I cannot find where this request for consultation was requested by employer organisations. I know for a fact that it was not requested by employee organisations. So it is little wonder that I am suspicious about this whole . clause. I will oppose it with every means available to me in this House because it does nothing to strengthen the Act; in fact, it weakens it. It weakens the authority of the commissioners and contributes nothing towards the very thing that the commissioners are charged with doing, that is, settling disputes and not starting them. This clause will start more disputes than it settles because it almost forbids the commissioner from settling a dispute on the evidence that he has heard. 

 -Mr Speaker, it seems as though I have opposition in this House as well. Is the Prime Minister aware that the international executive of D'Arcy-MacManus and Masius, one of the 10 biggest advertising agencies in the world, met last week in South Africa in what was described as 'a strong gesture of faith and confidence in South Africa'? Does the Prime Minister hold to his earlier expressed opinions about South African policies and those who support them? Is he aware that the local off-shoot of D'Arcy-MacManus and Masius numbers among its clients the Liberal Party of Australia? 
-Is the Deputy Prime Minister aware that a pensioner with the maximum allowable earnings of $20 a week will pay $1.20 tax out of the recent pension increase? Can he advise why the limit on tax-free earnings for pensioners has been reduced from $20 to $17 a week? 
-I rise to defend the Committee's report. Having heard the statement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and having read it as he was reading it to the House, I find that this Minister, who is quite well known throughout Australia for his contempt of Parliament and all that is associated with it, was quite contemptuous of the report written by the Committee. In fact, I would be highly surprised if he even read it. It seems to me that the Minister and or the Government have treated the Committee and this Parliament with contempt. This proposal involves an expenditure initially of some $90m and eventually $172m. After taking evidence from witnesses for more than five days- all of them were under oath- the Committee came to certain conclusions on this matter, although I might say that they were not unanimous conclusions. It did not do that lightly. 
The Committee presented its report yesterday afternoon, and it was ordered that it be printed. This afternoon, 24 hours later, this Minister holds the whole report in contempt. In fact, I bet that his statement had been written before he even read the report. He brought the matter back into the House today. We have limited time available to debate this statement, and he knew that. It is an old tactic of his: 'Jam them right up and you will get them right out of the bales'. So at the last moment he brought this matter before the Parliament and he is giving us all a limited time to talk on it. The whole proposal, in my view, is based on emotion rather than fact. 
If his Department were more competent than it was when it appeared before the Committee during this inquiry it would have argued strongly that a new airport should be developed in Brisbane. It did not do this. The Minister says that the Department had information that was not available to the Committee. Why was it not available to the Committee? Does the Committee have to drag everything out of the Department? Why can his Department not put together in the first instance something that does not have to be brought out by cross-examination oy the Committee? The Committee spent a lot of time just getting the Minister's Department to give us facts and figures. Finally, the Committee had to get the Department to rewrite them all because nothing lined up; they were out of sequence. Having got all of those facts and figures before us and having marshalled and mustered and considered them- we spent a lot of time doing thatthe Committee came to the conclusions set out in its report. The Minister- I take him to task on this here or anywhere- made a rather bland statement about the inordinate taxi-ing distances of up to 6 kilometres for aircraft at Brisbane airport. The Minister in his statement said: 
The Department of Transport is satisfied, that subject to appropriate operating procedures . . . 
I do not know whether that means that the aircraft will be pulled around with a Ferguson tractor, but we were told if these aircraft were run under their own steam for 6 kilometres their brake linings would heat up to 1,200 degrees fahrenheit. If they were to stand for a period of 90 minutes after attaining that temperature they would lose only half of that heat. The heat would drop to 600 degrees and that is when the tyres pop. The Minister's statement continued: 
The interim use of the present international terminal would not be prejudical to safety. 
If the Minister is a responsible Minister he will expunge those words because the use would be prejudical to safety. I invite him, instead of smirking to his colleagues behind him, to find out what happened at Honolulu airport when the reef strip was built. Qantas told us of that. If the Minister wants to charge Qantas with contempt of the Committee, he can go ahead and do it. That report is based on the evidence of Qantas and the operators. I know that time is running out and I do not want to delay the House more than is necessary, but I think this matter is very important. I cannot understand the Minister's statement about paragraph 113. At the top of page S of the statement he said: 
This recommendation relies on paragraph 113 of the Committee's report which conflicts with advice obtained recently by the Department from Qantas. 
I do not know how recently that advice was obtained. He stated further 
The Government will further investigate this aspect to determine whether there is need to review the required length of the proposed new runway. 
Who said that? Nowhere in this report does the Committee deal with the length of the proposed runway. This is what makes me suspicious. I do not think that the Minister has read the report. If he reads it he will find that the Committee is saying that with a maximum of a further 300 metres added to the existing runway- not the proposed runway- it would allow Qantas flights, with any configuration of loads- passengers, fuel, luggage and cargo- to go anywhere that Qantas might want them to go. If honourable members read the report they will find that Qantas flights can go anywhere they want to go now but the extra 300 metres of runway would allow them to go where they might want to go. So the Minister has not read the report. He is railroading this matter through the Parliament. If this Parliament were a responsible parliament it would defer this matter and hold it over until honourable members have had time to read that report and to find out how irresponsible this Minister is in making offthecuff statements about things not being prejudicial to safety. No responsible Minister can say that. I hold strongly to the view that the Committee is correct in its conclusions. I agree with all 13 conclusions. If the Government had any sense and any respect for this Parliament, and if it were not our pork-barreling, which I rather suspect it might be- a Country Party Minister our porkbarreling; goodness, gracious me, who would ever make such an allegation?- it would certainly let the matter have further investigation by the Parliament. The Government is not prepared to do that. I trust that the Parliament will reject this statement and adjourn the matter until next year. 
